tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 24th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There are enough meetings, we're going to talk. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can answer these talks, the government's response time is 20 minutes. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Ezekiel Hilal Kaplan, abdicating allegations of corruption against the Kopeeli Metropolitan Municipality. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0002par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation and all the arrested MPs. I'd like to share with you the corruption that has been committed at the most indebted municipality of Turkey in the city city city municipality, which has been often referred to as a role model in the Metropolitan City Law, which has been passed through parliament on intensive and inappropriate conditions for a week. MERTUR Automotive and Transport Limited Company began construction in 2008 in the district of Çayırova of Kopeeli Province, Turkey. The municipality of the period, the municipality of Şekpınar, heads up, gives a deadline, decides to destroy it when it is not processed during the time it is given to regulate the legal process in December 2008. Three months later, through the Internet and the press, authorities of this building, which has been finalised, offer it for sale as the construction of a hotel that has run out of cash for $17m. It's been a year-and-a-half, and they're applying to the Bigeli Metropolitan Municipality. At a personal request, the Kopeli Metropolitan Municipality removes the decision of destruction first, then changes its zoning status; it raises its construction site by up to half of its height from 4 to 10. It is a regional business centre for the region, which is an out-of-house urban area in terms of development. And while he's doing that, he's just doing this zoning arrangement on the property of this company, or in a nail -- he's doing his forgiveness. Now I ask you, who are these people? I'm asking these people if they have a relationship, a relationship with the ruling parties, a relative, while they're organizing a development to make $17 million worth of money, a run. There's something else I'm curious about here, especially when the Metropolitan City Council is making a parliamentary decision... especially if you have friends in you who are a civil engineer. You know, on August 17th, we had an earthquake, about 20,000 people died in the earthquake. The earthquake is still not wrapped up in her wounds, for her. I'd like to remind you that people still live in the building on a medium-damaged scale around 3,700. When giving this license, the Department of Ground and Earthquake Review writes: "If building is thought to be bigger than nine floors less than four floors, there is no harm in fitting the ground. If there is a construction between 4 and 9, please analyze the risk of earthquakes. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to address your conscience. Now, what would you do if this city were a Republican People's Party municipality? I'll tell you. You would send law enforcement officers at the crack of dawn, first you would detain all municipal employees, including the mayor; not enough, you would confiscate computers, documents. You don't need inspector's reports or documents to do that. When there's a Republican People's Party municipality, it's enough to be gossip and gossip, but when it comes to the ruling party's municipality, there's no sound. Remember, we had a press conference here last year with Republican People's Party MPs. Again, there are illegal regulations in Kopeleli, which have been determined by inspectorial documents, by administrative court decisions, for the municipalities of Cartel and Kandira. What happened? I ask you, what happened? I'd like an officer to make a statement. But if these were a Republican People's Party municipality, I want you to remember what's happening now -- if you consider what's being done in Izmir. Dear lawmakers, dear ruling party, do not take refuge in finger democracy and commit illegal acts or allow them. If you're here to make a personal law based on finger democracy, then the Bigville City Mayor will grant you a personal zoning grant with his finger account. Social justice and especially the rule of law are an important factor in the distribution of justice equally. If we want to achieve social peace, if we want to achieve social peace, please take care of justice equally for everyone. My respects to all of you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0003par0023	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Iğdır (Iğdır) MP Sinan Oğan (Iğdır) who wants to speak on behalf of Iğdır's anniversary of salvation. Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0004par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President, I have pledged the 92nd anniversary of the liberation of our lğdır, of our country's fields, of the streets, of my constituency, of our country's heroics, of our pride history, of our pride history, underlined, of our own enemy invasion. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly. There's another important date today, and I'd like to remind you of that date on this occasion. Today is also the anniversary of the date when the Ahiska Turks were driven from their homes to Siberia, to Central Asia, by Stalin's oppressive regime. The common Turks have not yet returned to their homeland, and the suffering of the Ahiska Turks is still under way. I would like to once again draw the attention of our Veteran Assembly and its valued MPs to the Turks of Ahiska. Under the leadership of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Paşa, we celebrate the 92nd anniversary of Iğdir's liberation from enemy occupation, under the courageous command of the Honorable Commander Kazim Karabekir, and by the solidarity of the people of Iğdır. Iğdır is a set drawn to the eastern border of our country. Neither the invading Russian forces nor Armenians will be able to pass through the set which the cruel cavalry of the Iğdır people had drawn on this matter; there was no more yesterday, there was no more today, and there will be no tomorrow. Iğdır is the name of resistance to the tyranny of the enemy, the threat to the enemy. Iğdır is the fortress of an insufferable struggle. Iğdır is the lifeblood of Turkey with its borders on three countries in the east. Iğdır is the name of a tradition that lasts for many eighty-six years. Iğdır is a deed taken from Turkey, despite those who want to surround it both from the inside and from the outside. Those who seek to take this deed under false pretenses must consider the unity and relentless struggle that Iğdur put together over the years. The people of Iğdır will not give to anyone the green Igdir, whose blood, suffering, and great difficulty they have been given. This unity will continue in the coming process, and it will continue to be stubborn in the tradition some think is broken. Whoever's got eyes in Iğdir, whoever's trying to play games on Iğdır, I'm speaking to them as the deputy of the knowledge; Igdir will bring him into the imaginary maps and address those who see him as a hungry chicken, like a mill: Iğdır was rescued from enemy occupation on November 14, 1920, but we have no doubt that the Iğdır will give this challenge a thousand times more if necessary. We remind those who want to change the structure of Iğdır (Iğdır) that the heroic Iğdırians, who put honor and homeland above all else, will give you the best answer. So don't let anyone try to spend Iğdır to look cute to some people. We don't have an Iğdır. We don't have the right to sacrifice the Armenian expansion to the destruction project you called "democratic expansion" and then changed its cover. We don't have a square inch of land to give from Iğdır. With these thoughts, ninety-two years ago, on the banks of the River Aras, on the side of Mount Ağrat, on the side of Mount Ağdır, who was a martyr for Iğdır, who gave us Iğdır, and to all our martyrs, I pray for God's mercy. On behalf of the government today, Mr. Secretary is here. And I'd like to address the Minister once again on behalf of the Iğdırans, Mr. Secretary, who is dying of thirst. HES projects are draining the Iğdur. Iğdır doesn't want much, he wants water to water his field. Iğdır wants a dam. Iğdır has retired four guards and wants the dam in Tuzluca to be built immediately. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0005par0038	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. We too celebrate the Iğdırites with the anniversary of their salvation. The third unscheduled statement belongs to İzmir MP Oğuz Oyan, who asked for a statement on the status of İzmir Metropolitan Municipality's institutional tax. Here you go, Mr. Oyan.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0006par0044	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, I'm going to tell you what kind of tax pressure the AKP government and the Finance Minister have put on İzmir Metropolitan Municipality. Using the judiciary as a weapon over İzmir Metropolitan Municipality would not be enough, which now tax inspectors do not leave Izmir Metropolitan City. In fact, my speech is a state of crime, and in the matter of malice, there will be a criminal state of power. Look, first of all, in December of last year, an institutional tax was imposed on rent revenues from İzmir Metropolitan Municipality, and a $4.7m tax on institutions for $11 million was imposed. In addition, a 550,000-dollar corporate tax for solid waste production facilities has been issued along with their fines. Now, this unfair, illegal and segregated tax pressure is under way by the municipality, but now, as a finance professor and as an Izmir MP, I've got a job and I've had several attempts. First of all, I asked the Ministry of Finance: "O Ministry, do you practice this kind of practice for other municipalities?" However, are municipalities subject to institutional taxes or not? The Law on Taxes of Institutions is very clear in this regard. The answer came to me: "Here, if there are economic public institutions according to the 1st and 2nd Articles of the Law, then the municipality is, of course. I don't see the Finance Minister here, running away, not responding. There's no such thing. Well, what is it? Do other municipalities pay taxes? He is tax-deprived by the Tax Code. So it's a cover-up. At least he gives, he doesn't give. Answer me, he doesn't. As a second step, I asked Ankara and İstanbul municipalities under the Right to Information Act 4982. How much rent do you have? I didn't ask about the tax first, just in case they ran away. They gave a beautiful detailed inventory of revenues; Istanbul's Metropolitan City has $196m (Izmir) has 11 (di) rents and so on, and Ankara has similar incomes of around $33m. So, do they pay taxes on them, I asked that question this time: How much tax do you pay? If you do not give, why do you give? Why do you not pay taxes? İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality, Ankara Metropolitan Municipality have also responded to me, saying they do not pay taxes. Ankara Metropolitan Municipality also says in its two-line writing, that it gives a more comprehensive answer, two lines, but comprehensive, that the city's rent revenues are exempt from the institutional tax, according to Article 4 (I) of Article 5520 of the Tax Act. However, when you look at that relevant substance, there's water, passenger transport, slaughterhouse operations here, so that's undefined in that context, but there's no clause in the Institutions Tax Act that says that the city's rent revenues are subject to institutional taxes. Therefore, if there is a gap, it must be applied for all municipalities. There is no such practice in Turkey except Izmir Metropolitan. Just when I was dealing with this, we had another thing. The İzmir Metropolitan Municipality received a letter from the Tax Office of the People's Tax Office on 14/9/2012, which is September 14th and according to this, since 2008, when the National Park of Life entered the service, institutional tax was paid. The zoo is a tax collector, can you imagine? I ask: Which municipality in Turkey is responsible for the tax of zoo institutions? It doesn't exist, it doesn't apply. Let me tell you: First of all, according to the Law on Taxes 5520, the zoos, the parks of natural life, are not an economic public organization. Two: In addition, such places are also covered by exemption, according to Article 4 (a) and (b) jokes of the same Tax Act. Three: Major City Municipality Law No. 5216 is considered one of the duties of the zoos, as well as the duties of the Metropolitan City. I'll tell you one other thing: there's a Law No. 5199, the Law on Protection of Animals, and its relevant code of conduct is for municipalities, bringing in duties and obligations related to the zoo. Now, I'll tell you something else: corporate tax is based on pure gain. Izmir's Natural Life Park expected income in 2013 at $1.4 million, but the expense forecast is $5.5 million, so there's more than three stories of damage, and you're going to tax it. So there's an environment here, there's a malice here, there's a double standard here. The principle of generality among equal institutions is violated. In this case, we have a political moral problem. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That would be the law of Idi Amin. And I will tell you the law of Idi Amin, which is that I am always right. Article 2: See Article 1 in case I am wrong.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0007par0055	Thank you, Mr. Oyan. My dear friends, I will now promise our friends who have entered the system in order of entry. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0008par0060	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Hamburg Senate, recently officially recognized these beliefs by signing an agreement with three of Sunni, one of the Alevi four religious communities. Together with Hamburg's social democratic mayor, DİİB, Shura, the Association of Islamic Cultural Centres and representatives of the Association of the German Association of Flames, the construction of mosques and mosques of communities, raising religious officials, funeral burials, media council representations, the right to serve religious services in hospitals and prisons has been guaranteed. All parties in the Hamburg Assembly supported this agreement. Dear lawmakers, come, before the month of battle, let's vote for a liberal legal arrangement that will bring all the people of this land equal rights, before Alevi, Sunni, Shii, Christian, Jewish, Bahai, atheist, atheist, atheist, and agnostic. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0009par0063	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0010par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Has an investigation been launched into the customs chiefs who have uncovered the smuggling of $400 million in crime, aiding the organization in order to stage a false invoice and make imaginary exports? If it's started, I want to know why. Also, in prisons, people who are fasting for death need to go on a diet. I condemn Mr. Prime Minister's tone, which is sarcastic by his speech. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0011par0070	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0012par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. With your intervention, we have a few words for the Minister of Agriculture. He drew a very dusty picture here yesterday, but the farmers who called say: "We thank the Minister of Agriculture; we knew it earlier as the brand of a car, the Minister of Agriculture has taught us that they are an animal species, a cattle species." They say, "We thank the Minister of Agriculture." Once again, we thank him, for the first time his sacrificial imported animal gave Turkey such a chance. Again, thank you so much, we used to burn hay, and now it's making us look for hay. We import straw, we become a country, we become a country. They say. For that, they thank the Minister of Agriculture very much. Also, cotton manufacturers say that our cotton is one of the world's finest cotton, and our climate conditions are too available to produce cotton, to plant cotton, and unfortunately, we can't plant cotton. Mr. Minister of Agriculture...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0013par0080	Thank you, Mr Varli. Dear Citizen...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0014par0083	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are on the 14th of November World Diabetes Day. In our country, there are 5 million people with 2.6 million diabetes candidates and 2.4 million diabetes candidates. Our Ministry of Health has implemented the Turkey Diabetes Prevention and Control Programme to ensure early diagnosis and treatment of the disease, and to make public awareness of risk factors. The awareness of society and people is important. Diabetes is not just a disease, it's a disease. Healthy nutrition and sports are a very important subject for diabetes. I wish all our people and our diabetics a healthy and peaceful life.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0015par0087	Thank you, Citizen. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0016par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkish and Georgian citizens began to cross freely through passport-free transitions between the two countries adopted on December 10, 2011, with protocol signed by the Turkish government and the government of Georgia following the modernisation of the Batum Border Gate on 31 May 2011. There was a 1 TL application here. Since it's a 1 TL application, there are serious piles at the Sarp Border Gate because there is no passport passage. Customs officials at the Sarp Border Gate have long tail lines due to the lack of police and security forces. I'd like to ask that the concerned take the necessary precautions and measures at the Sarp Border Gate, the relevant ministry, in order to address the harm done by our country's Sarp Border Gate. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0017par0094	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0018par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, Minister of Agriculture and Petting, Mr. Mehdi Eker, tried to escape the public view of the problems in agriculture by doing the battle and demagogue. During the Mehdi Eker period, Turkey imports animals; the agricultural country imports agricultural products; its fruit country, Turkey, has become a fruit importer; and there is also hay imports. Importing what Turkish people can produce from the outside means the welfare of the people. Mr. Minister, when he said he had no answers to the allegations, he revealed that the Turkish peasant himself was a burden on his agriculture. I've received a citizen's message about livestock, and I'm here because he doesn't need to listen. The citizen says: "Two years ago, I gave 20 thousand lira loans and bought four cows, and now I have to sell 10 cows to pay off that debt. Then let them account for why and for whom animal prices have been raised, what cooperatives have been delivering animals, and why so many animal prices have been lowered. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Instead of answering these questions and questions about animals and agriculture, he gave himself credit. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0019par0105	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Dağoğlu...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0020par0108	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today is World Diabetes Day. Diabetes, heart disease, kidney disease, eye disease, even a very serious disease that leads to amputation. Turkey's rate is around 14 per cent. That's a very high value, so we can view one of the six or seven as diabetes. But the best life is the healthy one. One of the most important factors in this is obesity, and I believe that if only the Ministry of Health considers a certain amount of attention or sensitivity to it, we personally have to go over it and actually fight obesity. I wish everyone a healthy life.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0019par0109	Thank you, Mountainoglu. Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0021par0112	Mr. President, our MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan has just made an accusation that he has been wrongly and poorly equipped with information regarding the Bigeli Metropolitan Municipality. I'd like to make a brief statement on that. Of course, not the way it used to be, Bigeli, in the last ten years, it's been a real breakthrough. With municipal services, the Gulf is now available. I apologize very much, when the Gulf was a sewer pit, today the Gulf became more than 40 species of fish, and the sea began to be taken around the Gulf. Over 3,000 people are coming to our karamürsel district on weekends, and they are visiting Kopeeli. Because of these challenges, there was a lack of a five - star hotel in Alexandria, which was needed. In order to satisfy this need, zoning plans have been granted preferential zoning rights, and other than its function in existing zoning plans... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...if they want to build a five-star hotel in this area, this is a preferential zoning situation.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0022par0116	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0023par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. Last summer, 18 days of forest burned in the District of Elmadağ in Andirın district of Kahramanmarash, unfortunately. Again, last summer, a certain area on our heromarash's Kazma plateau, a historic forest area, was exposed to forest fire again. I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary from here, too. He called me twice during the time of the digging bonds burning, and he gave me a heads-up on how to put out the fire. I thank him from here. My question is, nothing has ever been done to these burning forest areas of ours. Will there be studies at the point of planning and restoring in the coming period? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0024par0123	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0025par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. Since several days in particular, our citizens from Ceylanpınar district of Urbana have been calling, calling our families -- they're in real trouble, planes, bombs -- saying they're in a great deal of confusion and anxiety. They asked me to bring this unrest to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. So they were concerned that the turmoil in Syria had actually spread to Ceylanpınar, that it would disturb it, that there would be a real insurmountable situation for the Ceylanpinars. I ask the government to show that they are with them, especially in Ceylanpınar, by taking good care of our citizens' problems. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0026par0129	Thank you, Mr. Vural. My dear friends, some of our friends are in the system, but I apologize to them, and you know we promise 10 people. We'll move on to the agenda after the extracurricular talks. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There's a motion that the motions for the gene are withdrawn, and I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz, Mr. Nihat Ergün and Mr. Taner Yıldız (11/18), (11/21) and (11/22) are withdrawing our primary Gensoru unto ensure that the General Assembly's work will be published via TRT and later renewed. We reveal to you all that you know and all that you need. MHP Group Deputy Chairman of the MHP Group It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the causes of Turkish business accidents and occupational illness, to determine what are the measures to take, I propose and propose that Parliamentary Research be opened under Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of the Constitution. [[Bingöl]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] 12) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Hakkari]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] According to International Labour Organization (ILO), 337 million work accidents occur every year in the world. As a result of these business accidents, 2 million 310 thousand people have lost their lives and 160 million people are either injured or suffering from occupational illness. In Turkey's working life, statistics show that human life has been ignored and the painting is far worse. Between 1946 and 2005 in Turkey, 142,469 people were killed in an occupational accident and occupational illness. According to the Engineering Room's occupational and occupational safety report, there are work accidents in Turkey every seven minutes. According to Social Security Agency statistics, 64,316 occupational accidents and 429 occupational diseases have been detected in our country in 2009. 1,171 of them ended up dead, while 1,885 people were constantly unable to function. The number of work days lost in 2009 was 1,533,749 due to business accidents and occupational illness. According to the ILO criteria in Turkey, the cost of business accidents and occupational diseases for 2009 is estimated at around $38 billion. Turkey has an accident frequency of more than 7 times the average of 15 European Union countries in terms of mortality. The highest business accident rate in Turkey is 98% of the total number of workplaces and due to less than 50 workers being employed; there are no obligations in the SMEs, such as creating the Board of Business Health and Safety, building the Workplace Doctor, Occupational Safety Expert, Occupational Nurse or Health Officer. Since this exemption for small-scale businesses will not be easy to tolerate, there will be a key factor in establishing joint business health and safety units in each province, making it mandatory for small-scale businesses to take advantage of these units in terms of their risk and size, as well as reducing the number of business accidents in our country. As these figures show, the financial and spiritual losses caused by business accidents and occupational illness have reached significant levels for the country's economy. Therefore, permanent and effective measures are required in the field of occupational health and safety. It may be possible to achieve international working standards related to Turkey's work health and security, improve and improve working conditions, develop employees' work skills and motivation, boost employment. It may be possible to protect employees with occupational security, to protect the safety of production, to ensure the safety of the business, to reduce the damage done to the ecological environment to the lowest level. Even with reports of October and November business accidents alone, the situation is fully exposed. 53 workers lost their lives and 142 workers were injured in the October business accidents. While most deaths took place in construction, workers who worked in industrial areas died in car accidents involving labor services. The mines continued to take lives, Silikosis took his 48th life. Adding to the January-September 2011 figures, it will reveal how empty the growing economic rhetoric is. In an economy based on the blood and life of workers and laborers and the inequity of profiteers and the undisputed "trader" of the economy, the condition of those who have lost their lives as the "result of production" is a factor that has hit the oasis. As with everything else, Turkey has a bad record for "work safety and occupational illness." It is also important for human rights, not only to ensure job safety but also to investigate the reasons for business accidents and occupational illness, to determine what the measures are. The issue is mandatory to be investigated by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate "The Problems of the Chiefs," to determine the solution-oriented work to be conducted on this matter, I respectfully submit the Constitution to the opening of a Parliamentary Research under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Grand Assembly of Turkey. 20.12.2011 [[İstanbul]] 2) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 3) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Edirne]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Sinop]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] 16) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Niğde]] 18) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 19) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 21) Mehmet Siam Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[İzmir]] 23) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Gaziantep]] 26) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] Head of staff in Turkey is as difficult a public duty as possible. Turkey has a total of 54,000 Mukhtars. The funds for the mayors are $384. In addition to spendings such as electricity, water, telephone and heating, tea, water for incoming citizens, the secretary and stationery, the rent fees are also required to pay for this allocation. As you can well understand, it is impossible to perform this public service with the grant. Working under such conditions is primarily 18 of our Constitution. It is within the scope of the ban on labour, and it is against our Constitution. Our Mukhtars have many problems. The Mukhtars' insurance is covered by the Link-Kurk, and the chiefs' bonuses must be paid by themselves. Today, this insurance premium changes according to the step starting at $136. A Mukhtar pays an average of 360 TL insurance premiums. The grant for a chief is already $384, given the 2012 budget presentation talks by the Finance Ministry. Most of the Mukhtars have never received health care because they couldn't pay their insurance premiums. The second issue is their status in front of the court. The Mukhtars are subject to 657, who appear to be a public official, but are not able to take advantage of the civil rights of the officer of 657, and are tried in criminal courts for their crimes. All correspondence and work on subsidiaries, police departments, tax office, and criminal cases is also done through the administration. In the working environment of such a workload, chiefs have to have a secretary to help them and pay him a salary out of their own pocket. Since there is no detailed regulation of the law on this subject, the victim is more victims. Some of our chiefs are elected by the public by 5,000 or 6,000 votes, but their grant is $384. In the same way, mayors in some towns and counties have been elected mayors of 2000 and 3000 votes, while their salary ranges from 4000 to $5,000. Although there is no difference between the votes between the mayors and the chiefs, how different are their salaries and their status? There are cliffs between social rights and security. This imbalance needs to be resolved. For these reasons, I respectfully ask that a parliamentary investigation be opened under the 98th, 104th and 105th Articles of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to be fully identified and to address the problems. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Researching the problems of electricity used in agriculture in our country, determining the producer's problems and solutions, making administrative and institutional legal arrangements, is the aim of the Council of Ministers 104. And 105. We propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened based on the basis of the clauses. 1) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] 4) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 5) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 6) Mehmet Ali Sesame [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Antalya]] [[Edirne]] [[İzmir]] [[Aydın]] 12) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Tekirdağ]] 16) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Çanakkale]] 18) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Niğde]] 25) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Scholarship]] 27) Mehmet Siam Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 28) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Sinop]] [[Gaziantep]] 32) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] Electricity, used in plant and animal production, which constitutes an important entry pen in cost, has failed to provide the expected benefit despite the construction of electricity debts in various dates, with producers falling into payability. A serious interest pardon is required in order to make electricity debts affordable. With the transition to cost-based pricing mechanism, the unit price of electricity used in agricultural irrigation increased by 50% compared to 2007. The rate of increase has reached 58% in agricultural cold storage, cultural fisheries and poultry facilities, greenhouses and livestock companies. On this hike, the agricultural irrigation subscriber group increased by 1.5% in January 2009 and 9.6% in October. The unit price of electricity, which was 13.5 cents in 2007, was 22.53 cents in December 2010. These raises have made our farmers unable to produce. Although the unit has allowed our manufacturers to benefit from the scoret system in order to reduce the price, the plant needs to be given water as soon as possible, it can't be used by our systems manufacturers. In addition to the increases, the price of energy from electricity is increased by 1%, 2% of TRT and 18% VAT units. The Turkish farmer pays his taxes in advance in VAT and OTV. He can't get his VAT out of the merchandise he sells like a merchant. Even though it's damaged, it pays the tax on the blockage from the goods it sells. There is no electricity support in the Electric Market Law, although the amount and procedures are in the form of repayment to those consumers to be determined by the Ministry's proposal and by the Council of Ministers' decision, without interference in the prices for the support of consumers." The VAT, which is obviously high in electricity, is not supported by electricity, but also does not return the VAT paid by the farmer. Electric energy used in greenhouses and livestock companies, where agricultural production is being produced, has been applied to the schedule of a business and an office. Serenity and livestock companies receive 36% more electricity than the agricultural irrigation subscriber group. According to TEDAS data, 3.4% of Turkey's total electricity consumption and 1.4% of all subscribers belong to our producers, the agricultural irrigation group. As the data shows, our manufacturers do not keep a large share of subscribers or consumption, but the problems with electricity remain up-to-date. After privatisation, our producers face monthly collection of electricity bills. The privatised companies are billing the manufacturer monthly, and they are not backing down from this application. In the event of a slight setback in payments, the producers' electricity is cut instantly. In order for our manufacturers to continue to produce efficiently, 18% VAT electricity applied in electricity should be reduced to 1 percent electricity used in agriculture, 2% TRT share must be removed. The electricity used in agriculture must be supported, as it has been in previous years. Greenhouses and livestock companies should also be able to generate a subscriber group to supply electricity at lower prices, allowing them to receive electricity at a discounted rate. The bills must be collected twice a year, at most, in the equivalent of the harvest time, especially the privatized electricity distribution companies. The power must be turned on. Since the configurations of electricity debt so far do not provide the expected benefit, interest in electricity debt must be erased and restructured to start for at least five years. Congressmans, the motions for the opening of the parliamentary investigation have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, Mr. Halaman has received a request for a word at his place. Here they are, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0027par0359	Mr. President, I thank you. Mr. Minister of the Forest is here. In Kozan district of Adana, there is a dam in the province of Kozan that waters cotton, waters soy, waters cotton, waters soy from 1974-1975 to this side for agricultural irrigation purposes. A HES has been established in front of this dam for the past two years by the supporters of the current government. Because HES has been asking for water, the Kozan municipality has been constantly announcing the second crop for bread: don't plant the second product, there's no water in the dam. Now, electricity is important, but isn't it important to the agricultural narc, not the cotton, not the soy? The dam was set up for agricultural purposes, so why is HES set up in front of it? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0028par0362	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Now we move on to the special agenda's part of the agenda. Using political influence in the implementation of Adana MP Seyfettin Yilmaz and 21 lawmakers during the 1st part of this chapter, we are starting talks on whether the Gazi Settlement, the Forest General Directorate's territory, and whether it will be brought up on the agenda of its proposed geneor (11/15) for the destruction of the public and abuse of its duties by the Istanbul Forest Regional Directorate. Government? He's in position. I'm not having the motion re-readed because it was printed and distributed earlier and was read in the 16th Union of the General Assembly, dated 6/11/2012. Members of parliament, under Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the Council of Ministers, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a prime minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers will be promised in this meeting. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motionr, 20 minutes for the group and the government. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the elected members in order. Mr. Ali Oz, MP of Mersin, who is in charge of the motion. Here you go, Mr. Oz. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0029par0377	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made to open a gene for Forest and Water Affairs Minister Veysel Eroglu, on the charge that he has abused the public by using his political influence. I salute the High Council. Our forests are one of the world's most valuable natural resources. On average, 13 million hectares of earth's forests disappear every year. Thus, environmental disasters, such as deforestation, erosion, land decay, global warming, desertification, seriously threaten our world. The most important antidote to these threats and the protection, development of our vital forests for the living, has never been more destroyed by forestry companies with a hundred and seventy-two years of tradition with the facility of new ones. Our forestmen have signed many projects of vital importance to this country. Terakos, Adana Akyatan, Antalya Belek sandul wooding, Adana Çakıt, Aydın Menderes Basin, erosion control projects, Trakya Kordağ trees are only a few of them, which meet 50 per cent of Istanbul's water supply. The Minister ignores the tradition, the savings, and the labor and starts the history of almost forestry with him. The 2008-2012 Foresting and Erosion Expedition Action Plan Project, which was drafted by the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, is based on the 4122 National Forestation and Erosion Expedition Act, and is the correct project. But without enough resources and labor force, your interest in just advertising numbers, including those who will carry out the project, has caused you to lose credibility. "In the last three years, 1,500,000 hectares have been treesed and 820 million saplings have been met with land." The spot word has been in the public eye for days. You can look people in the eye and tell lies. In the full use of the production capacity of the ministry's 122 seedlings, 598 million saplings are indicated to be produced, and only 300,000 hectares of plant can be planted. The ministry's annual production of saplings averages 250 million. Your ministry has shown a total of 262,452 hectares of work in the last three years. How can you say there's been a million and a half hectares of wooding in the last three years? In a similar way, it has been understood from the General Directorate of Forests, September 26, 2011, where the maintenance of about 5,500,000 hectares of young forests, which constituted nearly half the fertile forest areas, will be widely used during this time of power between 2012 and 16. According to this sentence, about 1,200,000 hectares of young forest will be maintained annually. The ministry is looking forward to the future of the forests of Turkey if it approaches with the aim of catching imaginary figures, as in rehabilitation and deforestation studies, without enough engineers or technical service being bought. The technical maintenance of the young forests, which have worked a thousand years to achieve the programme's goals, will likely be left to the cutter's initiative. Both our country and our forestry will suffer a great deal. The maintenance of the young forest must be done, but we would also like to point out that 4,000 forest engineers are needed in order to maintain the technique of 1,200,000 hectares of young forest a year. Although a number of forest engineers have been taken, that number is insufficient. The Ministry of Environment, Forestry and Urbanism was established in the 3rd term, referred to as the mastery period, under the Law Code No. 636. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs was established in accordance with Code 645, no less than a month after the wisdom of mastery. While we were building, past experiences were set aside from participation. The fact that the forest and water issues are under the same ministry's roof is a positive arrangement, given the fact that the forest takes on very important functions in the production of quality water, in the protection of the soil. This positive structure was unfortunately not observed in the appointment and deployment of the Ministry. Although nearly two-thirds of the ministry's tasks were forestry issues, 16 percent of the forests were isolated as isolated water production, which is hydrologic-functioned forests, unfortunately, forestry at high-level appointments were not considered, the undersecretary and three undersecretaries were appointed environmental and water-rooted bureaucrats. Given that the minister is of water and environmental origin, the ministry has been transformed into the ministry of business. The Ministry's main service unit was established by the Department of Nature Protection and National Parks. The planning, registration and approval of areas such as forest parks, natural parks, nature preserves, wetlands, and the ministry of environmental and urbanism has been cleared of the National Department of Natural Protection and National Parks. The drum remained in the Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks, and the mallet remained in the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. That was not enough, and a bureaucrat with a degree in Social Sciences was appointed to head the institution at Hacettepe University. According to us, Mr. Forest Minister, we would not be surprised if he recently threw another bureaucrat at the head of the Forest General Directorate, who was also a forest engineer, his own political opinion or the demands of the unions. Again, forest headquarters have been closed in many areas of dense forest, such as Çanakkale and Sinop, with the decision of the Council of Ministers. However, new forest regional directorates have been opened to areas that are limited, completely conjunctural and politically approachable. And according to what criteria did you open 28 new forest management directors, Mr. Secretary, and what was your motive? Five years ago, forest management was reopened in the provinces closed by your government due to the lack of savings and business opening points, while the forest management of the forest was closed with the same decree, while the forest management of the forest, which had never even been a business manager in its history and was difficult to manage, was opened to the Minister's electoral district, Dinar, a forest manager; nearly two forest district managers -- close to the region's administration -- and the Canakkale and Sinop forest regional managers -- were closed. It was not enough, on 10/10/2011, a number of changes were made to the establishment by Code No. 657. Units were opened and shut down so easily that another apartment was opened about six weeks after the presidential office of the Relevant Forest Map and Remote Perception Agency, which was established to be added to Section 648. Mr. Secretary, even though it's been over a year, doesn't it bother you that you're still busy with organizations, zigzag all the time, that you can't be motivated? It seems you reap what you sow. Your savings and integrity officers have been rusty. It is well-known that the appointment was made by the union close to you instead of the general managers, and that the appointment was not made without registering with the union concerned by the chief of staff. We are in an environment where the elections of professional organisations are even used as a means of pressure in appointments. If you have any knowledge of this, then the matter is indeed graver, if you do not have it. In order to pave the way for arbitrary appointments, not to get caught in the legal barrier based on driver's license and liabilities, the appointment and replacement regulations of the Forest General Directorate technical staff have been lifted. As a result of the occupational organization's lawsuit, the Supreme Court has decided to call it off. The General Directorate of the Forest, which is not based on any objective criteria again, has been issued the appointment and relocation regulation. There's been another lawsuit, State Department 2. He decided to stop running the apartment. By the way, you've continued your pleasant assignments. For God's sake, Mr. Secretary, is it so difficult to impose and enforce a staff legislation based on licenses and liabilities that will ensure employee-work peace from your work? The Director General of the Forest, I hope, after these court decisions, will take into account the technical staff appointing regulations of the room, the union, the NGOs. Mr. President, we certainly support the use of resources such as winds, streams, suns, biomass in renewable energy, but the horivalism of HES is causing the severe destruction and destruction of the living environments of forests and living creatures. So much so that for a few megawatts of energy, nature's wonder fields have been overlooked. In many places, the opinion of the locals has never been considered. As a matter of fact, 47% of the cases filed by relevant associations, particularly the East Black Sea, have been dismissed by courts. In addition to many negatives, especially projects are made with virtual values, measurements are not done, feasibility is unrealistic, and insurmountable is highlighted in the report following a 60-person survey of the electrical engineers' room. It is also recommended that a central plan be made with a participating understanding. Despite opposition to many localities, 1.576 HES, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, is easily allowed to confirm these findings. Mr. Secretary, I salute the High Council with respect to you for not making appointments for professional and civil society organizations, for their efforts to intimidate, even to intervene in their elections, for their misdemeanor and unlawful conduct.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0030par0397	Thank you, Mr. Oz. On behalf of the groups, the first speaker is Mr. Hasan Ören, MP of Manisa on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Kören, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0031par0402	Mr. President, a motion has been issued by Adana MP Seyfettin Yilmaz and 21 MPs to propose a genotype against Gazi Cove, Gazi General Directorate territory, and Forest Minister Veysel Eroglu, who claims to have damaged the public and misused his duties. I made a commitment in favor of the motion. I salute you all. Of course, that's not the case with our Minister. Mr. Secretary really had to resign before this motion for a geneorization was made. You know, Manisa is remembered and known for three things: One is the motherland of the tulip, and Manisa comes to mind when it's called the tulip. The two were raised in Manisa, the martyrs and princes of the Ottoman era. The third is important and is remembered with Tarzan. Tarzan, in the forest of Mount Spil, is the man who planted trees today, forty, fifty, sixty years old. In fact, films are related to Tarzan, a symbol of Manisa, as a symbol of the night that rains so much, that the roots of that tree give its back to a tree that is rooted out of the ground, giving its back to the trees until morning, so that it doesn't leave the ground. My dear friends, in the past few weeks, there has been a fire in a 50 hectare area in Mt. Manisa Spil. And the trees of the children of Manisa were burned, and the trees of the children of Tarzan were thirty, forty, and fifty. Our hearts really hurt as Manisa MPs, a piece of our lungs were taken away. What I'm going to tell you is 20 kilometers of bird flight between Mount Çi and Manisa. What we have taken beyond crying, Mr. Manisa, is sad that the MPs of the AK PARTY, who have not returned to Mount Spil, have cried to the burning trees in Mount Spil, while hundreds of thousands of trees have been cut down by order of Mr. Minister. Now, what's Mount Play? Play Mountain is a nickel mine. Where's Mount Rye? It is a mine located about 10km from Turgutlu, in the area of the villages, where the villages are two miles [3 km] away. Its distance is 40km, and its distance to Manisa is 28km. There's been a massacre on Mount Play. Now, I'd like to show you a picture from the satellite about Mount Çil. That's what we call Mount Play. This hole, which was taken in 2011, which we today call the Pit of Hell, has doubled. Hundreds of thousands of trees are being cut down in these areas.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0032par0409	There's been a massacre, a massacre.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0031par0410	Right below this -- this is a satellite photo -- Mr. Minister, where the villages are located, the Gediz River, the Turgutlu. The height of this is from the Turgutian, the height of the sea level is 680 meters [680 m], or 45 degrees [45 degrees]. If you're cutting down hundreds of thousands of trees here, it's not possible that there's no erosion here, it's bound to be erosion. Now, here's where the cuts begin. In this Mount of Çi, 160,000 will be cut down, according to the company, and 150,000 trees will be cut down, according to the ministry. With regard to this cut down, even though we've told our deputies so much, the Manisa MPs are afraid to go here as if it were a restricted area. In fact, I'll tell you what his name is -- let him come here, let him have a say -- Mr. Muzaffer Citizen -- when we're three people, five of us are out -- says: Mr. Deputy, I'm against this project. In the land of Turgutlu, when there is gold in the plain of Manisa, do you need a nickel? What is gold? The gold is the grape that grows in the plain of Turgut, which is about that plain that exports 500 million euros of grapes. But when we get here, for some reason, the MPs here are changing their minds, acting like they're next to this mine.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0033par0412	Fear, fear.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0031par0413	Now, my dear friends, this is just the cutting down of 150,000 trees of thirty-five and forty years. These trees will be cut down here, what do we do? Here the trees are going to be cut down, after these trees are cut down, we're going to start running the mine instead of these trees, so let's set it up. So if the mine is really going to contribute to Turkey's problems and Turkey's budget, is it possible to oppose the mine? But they need to be accounted for. What are their accounts? That's what it takes. If you remove $4.2 billion worth of products from Gediz Plain -- I mean Akhisar, Manisa, Salihli, Turgutlu, Alaşehir -- in this country, where you can't do anything in the millions of years -- you only register in the stock markets -- with cherries, with its fruit, with its fruit, with its fruit, with its food -- with its protection in this year, in this world-famous land, where you can't do anything in the millions of years -- you can't do anything in this land -- you can't do anything in the world -- you can't do anything in the future -- you've signed the world organization's contract of Rams company, with its five billion dollars in Turkey. How can you grant this permit? If this land is so fertile, if it has so much to gain on this land, Manisa is the agricultural city of Manisa. We live in an area that produces the highest level of agricultural production in exports and Turkey. Why are you sacrificing this land? At the end of 15 years, a $60 billion return, at the end of 15 years, is a $3 billion turnover; 3 billion company will make a turnout; only 160m of this turnout will remain in Turkey. Well, is there a doubt here, Mr. Secretary, that there's an eclipse here? Here, on 45 degree slopes, 18 million tons of sulfuric acid will be used in 15 years. Once again, friends, the first-class land -- when we hit the california in Turkey -- is 8%. So Turkey is in the Manisa Gediz Basin, at least 4 percent of our fertile land -- which we were taught in the first school -- because of its self-feeding, self-feeding -- is in the Manisa Gediz Basin. You will now remove 50-60 billion products from this Gediz Basin in fifteen years, and on the other hand, 18 million tons of sulfuric acid will be used to extract ore on this 45-degree slope in 15 years, and you will give this license without thinking about the risk of this plain. My dear friends, of course... why was this license issued? That's all that matters.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0034par0416	And who was it given to?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0031par0417	Is this choice, by any chance, the Minister's own choice? Is there any pressure on the outside of this choice? He couldn't stand the pressure, so he gave this license? Why didn't the Minister of the Forest before him give it to you? I don't think it's right to talk about all this without research or documentation. For example, the mayor of Turgut is a friend of ours from AK PARTY, who has been president for two semesters.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0035par0419	The guy who sold the minister's car?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0036par0420	He's got a record.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0031par0421	Yeah, with a lot of priors. He's got a record here, too. Now, you see, there's a union in Turgutlu, with all NGOs, with NGOs, with the CHP, with all the NGOs, with the destruction of these lands. About that, we're pressuring the mayor, and we're saying that it's not possible for this to happen here in the amount of time you don't allow it. When the mayor got stuck, he started making them spill in front of the cameras. Where there are dozens, hundreds of people and cameras in the Chamber of Commerce, I'm reading from the same report on our Minister, and I've given it to our Minister -- it's clear in May 2009 that the AKP Mayor of Turgutlu, at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry Assembly, said in front of the cameras and recorded, who decided to slaughter our forests. The mayor says I've been reading from the transcripts: I've told all our friends that I've always had to stand by the government's decision on the mine. Because the Minister of Environment and Forestry, Mr. Professor Dr. Veysel Eroglu, who is responsible for this, is an honest statesman and a government man that I believe in. I made an appointment with him on this challenge, and I talked to him, and he talked to us about it. We've told him about our hesitations, our troubles over time. Clearly, our government and the Ministry have made a intimidation policy against the relevant firm, so it has a policy on getting them to quit by harassing them, by making them quit, so the ministry knows that the business here will damage the land, and it's pressuring the company because it knows that it will damage the land. The second part continues, as the Minister called me after his talks. I'm telling this with the Minister's mouth, the president said: "We're stuck, unfortunately we've fallen into the well we dug ourselves." We're being pressured by both the company and the British Embassy and the British government, and unfortunately we've fallen into the well we dug ourselves, so we have to give them the license.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0037par0425	Wow! What are you doing in that chair, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0038par0426	Not at all.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0031par0427	Mr. Secretary, I'm not done with this. Would it be okay to take a mayor's word and blame Mr. Secretary? Then what do you have to do? I'll have to ask you a question. I wrote the question motion at the end of 2011, and I said, "That's what a mayor of yours says. What is your attitude, your attitude? You're not Veysel Eroglu, you're a minister, you're one of the ministers of Mustafa Kemal. The answer to the motion is: I didn't say anything like that. I have to believe the Minister, but I have city council members in Turgutlu. This is what the mayor said in front of the cameras when we presented the Minister's letter to the mayor:.the minister's voice binds me, it binds me. It's true what I said. I'm going back, I'm telling Mr. Secretary that in the question motion -- look at the records -- I didn't say that I didn't. I didn't say that you didn't give this license by order of the British government. When you said that the mayor you called it was insisting on. He says you're not telling the truth about it. When I say it, he says again: I called him, he said he didn't say anything like that. Dear friends, would such an informal question be the answer now? I believe you said that. If you say why, then what I believe should have infrastructure. Wasn't Minister Osman Pepe before you? Since the Ottoman Pepe era, British Ambassador to Turkey, David Logan, pressured Osman Pepe on this issue and on the higher part, asked Osman Pepe for this license. Why didn't Osman Pepe? What did he say on the air in NTV? I went to Mount Play. It is a cruel thing to give this license in Mount Play. When you give this permit to Mount Play, you will destroy Turkey's 1st class lands. So they didn't bend my wrist, they twisted someone else's wrist. There's still a tape on the NTV, and there's a CD.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0039par0429	Is Pepe out of office for him, too?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0031par0430	So they couldn't bend Osman Pepe's wrist, Minister; they twisted your wrist? The answers you gave me about this...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0040par0431	Did he tell the person who gave it to him?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0031par0432	That's exactly what you said: they're going to open the NTV and look at it. Osman Pepe says they wanted to get my license on this. I've been there, I've seen it. The mining operation will damage it. When we're getting this much money from these lands, when we're exporting out with this much production -- it's not an export based on import -- we take it from what we plant in the land of Allah, from the cherry to the grape, we remove 4.2 billion products every year, 3 billion dollars in the company that will bring me, and 160 million of it will remain in Turkey. Now, Mr. Minister, when these trees were cut down, these trees were cut down, and there were hundreds of thousands of trees; you say the ministry set the price of 2 million 259, 982, plus VAT, as a cost of deforestation for the destroyed forest area. And then you answer my question, and then you answer the minister's question, and he tells me that the given field will grow 100 times as many as 15 million seedlings, with 30 times the size of the cut tree. You will plant 15 million trees, with 2 trillion dollars in old money for a hundred thousand trees, you will get 2 million dollars in new money. In order to plant 15 million trees, you have to plant the larch plant at least 50 centimeters, you have to pay 400 million dollars for a 15-million-dollar tree, which is inconsistencies...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0041par0434	Have you seen the Irish Valley?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0031par0435	Irmaz Valley, it's so beautiful, sometimes a trap like this is set, it's bait on the end of the line and you're there, Mr. Secretary. Now, what did he do in the Irish Valley, why did the mining company give your mayor 303 billion dollars? A mining company doing the right thing, a businessman doing the right thing, would he go and give the city 303 billion dollars? He took 11,300 trees for 303 billion, and gave them to the municipality, and the municipality planted them in the valley of Irmaz.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0042par0436	That's a hell of a setup, that's a big scam.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0043par0437	Shame on you! Unconscionable!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0031par0438	If 11.350 saplings make 303 million, 303 billion -- with the old money -- and the new money makes 300 million -- E, you're talking about 15 million saplings. Dear friends, what I'm saying here is based on knowledge, on paper. Mr. Secretary, if he really wants to honor this seat in his seat... if a friend of ours in my party were to frame the vice president of my party, the discipline of the party would be immediately, in fact, in order to work. Either run the party discipline or don't swallow what this mayor told you or what he said to this office. Don't swallow, do as you're told.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0043par0440	They already bought it.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0031par0441	You're not doing what you're doing because you said it in front of that person.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0043par0442	Isn't he on duty?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0031par0443	He's on duty, he's on duty.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0043par0444	It's a disgrace!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0031par0445	Will you allow this mine to disappear in the first class by allowing it to disappear? What happened back home? The dams exploded. Well, here's what I'd like to show you here tomorrow, if it's too big, ten years, 20 years, every 30 years when it rains with sulfuric acid. Look, there'll be five more like this one, the whole of the Play Mountain will be filled with holes like this, the materials will be taken down, so to speak, these materials will go up. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, how do you destroy sulfuric acid?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0044par0448	Mr. President deserves the extra time.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0031par0449	It's about the stacks of ligatures...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0045par0450	And I believe Mr. Secretary has made allegations...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0044par0451	He deserves it, so he deserves a minute more.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0046par0452	Would you please finish?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0047par0453	We will wash it with water, put it out with lime, and then we will bring up the clean soil. With what will you wash the fluids, the soil that is in the sulfuric acid? With water. Where are you going to discharge the water you washed? Millions of tons of water, 18 million tons of sulfuric acid. Where are you going with this? Minister, I'm asking you, in 2005, I filed a motion, a research motion, a research motion in 2011. You, Congressman, as the Manisa MP, said no. Why not? Come and tell me from here. What does Manisa MPs have to do with this mine? A manisa MP is coming out. I vouch for this mine. What do you vouch for? What good is your bail in a mine that will suffer trillions of quadrillions of damage?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0046par0455	Mr. Kören...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0047par0456	My dear friends, this is all based on the document. Mr. Minister, if the Mayor told you to do the proper procedure to the mayor, but if what the mayor says is true, if you really gave this license under the pressure of the British government, it would not suit a minister of the Republic of Turkey. Quit before you wait for the next question. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0048par0460	Mr. President, the speaker has made a mockery of my name in his speech.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0049par0461	Here you go. Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0048par0465	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the speaker, our Manisa MP, have spoken of Manisa's tulips, princes, and styles. I'd like to thank him for his promotion. The operations of Mount Play are a mining process. What we're saying here is that we're on the side of the mines being mined in whatever safe way in the world, whatever methods are mined in developed countries. We're trying to get the mines, geothermalin, energy to be brought to the ground and presented to the service of our people.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0050par0467	Are you across this mine or are you with you? The only question is...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0048par0468	Between Alaşehir and Salihli...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0051par0469	Please, Mr. Kören, please.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0050par0470	I'm asking you one question...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0048par0471	...we brought the geothermal water to the ground, we auctioned it for 52 million dollars. The $26 million will also be used in the services of our villages in Manisa. It's a nickel mine that comes out of the vortex. Indeed, it is my word, and the coin that comes forth there is the plain of Gediz, which is of Manisa, which is of gold to us.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0050par0472	Thank you, bravo.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0048par0473	I agree with that, yes. To that end, our Ministry's plan to protect the Gediz Basin is under way. The mine has been being tested since 2004. When our EPA brought this up, I asked both our Environment Department and our Agricultural State Directorate if they were measuring from the air, water, land, soil around here, and what they really did, they actually did, in the city, the sulfuric acid or the sulfur rate...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0050par0475	It's applied on a scale of one in 200, and you should know that.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0048par0476	...even though it's very high, there's no real negative or negative report in the agricultural areas mentioned around here...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0050par0477	He's just getting started, Mr. Secretary knows.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0048par0478	Yeah...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0052par0479	Mr. Kören...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0048par0480	We just, of course, measured the safe water...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0053par0482	But 160,000 trees were cut down.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0054par0483	Are you with him or against him?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0055par0484	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0056par0485	Two more minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0054par0486	Give me two more minutes. Are you with him or against him?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0056par0488	I'm right here, honey.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0057par0489	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0056par0490	We're on the side of safe farmland, safe mining, and we're definitely on the side of Manisal.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0058par0491	That's a very round answer. No, no, no.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0059par0492	Oh, God, the grapes are waiting to give you the extra grapes.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0058par0493	This is not the answer to Manisa's interests.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0060par0494	Thank you. On behalf of the groups, the second speaker is Mr. Ertugrul Kürkcu, MP of Mersin on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Mr. Furman, please.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0061par0500	We're in favor of the motion to ask about the minister. Of course, it's not just because of the accusation that he acted in order to benefit private companies in reevaluation of the waste soil expressed in this genus, but because we consider all the activities of the ministry, in fact, there is a ministry that is most active in a process in Turkey, depending on the overall progress of capitalism in the world. This is one of the most important leverages of capital's invasion of nature, the invasion of living life. So, in this regard, although it seems that he is not actually facing the working class in any way in his form, he deserves to discuss the situation of human self-reproduction over all the conditions that the working class has rebuilt him because it is a very destructive capital-directional policy on the conditions of human reproduction. The new capital investment trend, which the Minister is actually the carrier of, is what we generally call the "biopolitic". I mean, it's that he surrounds all the areas of living life, transforms them into an investment area for capital, the living conditions, the laborer's own body, its nature, its consciousness, and reinvents every moment of it, and makes it an opportunity for capital flow. As a matter of fact, we're seeing this from the Minister's own statements. For example, when he talks about water -- the most important resources that his ministry controls -- we see it refer to it as natural, indispensable, replaceable, non-profitable water, the meta. The water is today's most important meta, the meta. That's right, if you look at it from where the capital is looking, water is meta, so it can and can be bought and used by someone with money like all the metas. Open up, there won't be any poor man's water. As a matter of fact, we're living in the same practice every day. Prepaid counters bring with them the risk of people dying of thirst at home when they have no money to pay. This mentality is generally marked not only by the Minister, but also by the entire economic policy carried out by the AKP. In the same way, when we look at the invasion of hydroelectric plants, the Minister presents it as an opportunity to complete the energy capacity Turkey needs, but it can only be seen as a certain and only a certain understanding of development, a certain understanding of civilization. This is in terms of a civilization where capital needs are centered. So you don't realize that by setting up a system that connects every stream you see everywhere to a plant, humans, not only humans, but other animals, are destroying ecosystems that live together. I remember a villager from the Black Sea saying, "What will my share be? What's in it for the peasant? What about the ant's share? What about the bear's share? I think it's very appropriate, and it's the attitude of an ecologist who learns from nature without reading from a book in any way. Now, the Minister and those like him who oppose these HESKS say: "In fact, we think that the governments, which are our enemies, provoke us because they don't want us to develop. " In fact, they ignore that this attitude itself has taken away living life by subsidizing living life. Therefore, I believe that the Ministry has already earned criticism for its approval that water should be commercialized, that the historical environment would be invaded in the process of commercializing water, such as Hasankeyf, for example Allianoi, and all of this historical heritage would be destroyed under capital yoke. But the biggest one of them is the big looting painting that comes out of the resale of land 2/B. Interestingly, today, when he was scheduled to discuss the general question about himself, the minister revoked the license of Agaoğlu, one of the new capitalists of our age, who started building a large housing complex in the Fatih Forest. He may have thought it would protect him from criticism, but even though Agaoglu and his peers could not actually infiltrate the Forest of the Conqueror, they said that their 2/B land was an enormous source of new urban soil for them: (Rayicic needs to reach a compromise with the parties in the matter of determining the prices. When the law comes out, I'll go and pay the government back. And then we plan to invest in these lands. So capitalists like Agaoglu are not afraid of the Minister, but rather consider him an incentive, a strengthening example for them. In the same way, there has been no suitable land production in Istanbul. It's the biggest factor that affects prices. In addition to 2/B law, there will be positive developments for the market at the land point. The ministry's goal, along with the sale of 2/B land, was to register large amounts of fresh money, hot money, revenues to the state treasury, and thus claim that small investors, small landowners, will be able to solve the code between them and the state by paying for the land they are in the occupational situation. But what's the result? The buyers of these sites have been big construction companies, small manufacturers, small real estate owners, with no results in the sale of these properties. Actually, the situation is self-explanatory. Forestlands that have lost their forest quality have become like this because they can't be anything but forests, and the Ministry, which is responsible for making them that way, has tried to reach an agreement with the public through the sale of them, but it's mainly because they're capitalist corporations, there's no compromise between the public and the public. So pretending to punish one of them won't eliminate this sinister marriage, on the contrary, the link between the big corporations and the government is established through the government's policies. But what do we need? What we need is for the combined manufacturers, the manufacturers, the human, the metabolic relationship between man and nature, mentally. This mental arrangement is that the highest level of individual and collective satisfaction is to establish this relationship with the lowest energy and cost that will enable self-fulfilling. Our practice, however, is that this process will take place at the highest cost for both humanity and the country we live in and for this community. The result is that the capitalist society, this form of capitalist production, severs this metabolism, this metabolism between humanity and nature, irreversibly. Nature's rate of decay is higher than the rate of capitalist production to make growth for people, and so we say that we're coming to the natural limits of capitalism, and so we say that it's imperative that nature be saved according to that logic. This is the biggest conflict between us and the Ministry. No individual, no society, no country owns the world, the planet. Humanity is the owner of the planet, and humanity depends only on the relationship you have with it, not on humanity today, but on the future generations. You, by corrupting nature's present day, by costing its present capital interests, and by arranging it, in your practices, you're putting on us a method of development, a civilization that actually eliminates the future of humanity. This civilization is now on its knees, about to collapse. It is imperative that a revolution be made against him before he and he destroys all mankind. Epikuros, one of the naturalist philosophers, says: "Nothing is enough for the people who have little to come to them. There is nothing enough for the children of Aga, and nothing for the owners of Rixos, and nothing for those who are protected by the Prime Minister. They always want to subject more, more, more forest, more farmland, more natural landscape, more historical environment, more urban soil, all of what humanity has created to this day to capitalize. Nothing is enough for them. And it is not enough for the capitalist pilgrims, who have now been mauled, who believe that they have been left out of this plunder, that they want everything, and they want nature. That's what our Ministry provides for them. So, dear friends, this is the result of general policy, the issue we're facing. Now, another result of this general policy is this conflict with living life, which exposes itself because of hunger strikes. Yes, I'll mention that, but before I do, I'm going to show you how the two are connected while we're dealing with the Prime Minister's method of fighting the hunger strikers. Look, the Prime Minister has been talking in a pro-mortem manner ever since these issues came to light. Let them die, he says. Let them show us if they can die. Then he opens up the death row, says: I want a state politics that kills people by hanging. I used to say it differently, but I don't anymore. He says that he put himself in the category of countries with capital punishment, that Russia put him in the region next to China, that he defied the other opponents, but he also adopted a pro-death policy attitude. He's actually considering pro-mortem politics with the assumption of one more population. There is an extra population approach for those who oppose him, those who oppose him, those who strike, those who don't do well in prison, those who don't accept the punishment they're given, those who try to rebel. So, in fact, the Prime Minister, who is going to turn a prime minister over, what will bring his name to future generations, is hoping for the death of humanity, to live, to treat the people, to treat the children of the people well. I'll leave it to him, all the nonsense he's using for us, all the useless lung arguments. If he had lungs, he wouldn't be doing that. Because, my dear friends, what terrifies the Prime Minister the most is that he's troubled by the fact that he's become the owner of such an ugly literature that even he can't even recognize, that moral superiority is running away from him in this ongoing struggle in Turkey. No matter how much he clings to all the holy books, all the holy references, all the faiths of all the faithful, he hates everyone who puts it to the test, confronts it, meets it with his body, knowing that his devotion to this world's blessings is seen by everyone. That's the only reason he's got a dirty mouth. Hunger strikes tested the Prime Minister, tested his connection to the world's blessings. So it's a pity that he gets violent when he sees this spiritual struggle exposes him. Dear friends, I would like to address you that today is the 64th day of the hunger strike. I overheard my friend's press conference today, the speaker of the nationalist movement, accidentally watching TV in the room. He expressed doubt, saying, "How can people who have been on hunger strike for six days still not die? " I'm sorry that he's so close to the Prime Minister, because no matter how much the conflicting world views are between us, we've had similar prison experiences, we've had prison life, prison culture and prison history are a part of us. When he looked inside of her, he shouldn't have said that because a disciplined hunger strike battle is actually a self-testing act, not a quick death, but a life-threatening one. That's the point. The culture that understands that hunger strike is among the MHP people, and I want them to correct those friends. They like our politics, they don't like it, but anyone who argues the matter on the axis of false strike/the false strike serves death, serves the politics of death. I'd like to address my fellow lawmakers who are sitting in government lines again: Come on, friends, let's figure this out. Don't tell me this to find a cure: go convince them to quit the strike. I've told them before, and I'll tell you again: they didn't ask us our opinion while they were starving, but if they did, we would have told them. And then he has his own logic, and he's walking in it. And they put three demands in the middle. Now we're told: "Where did these demands come from?" I want to tell you all once again, dear friends. How can the defence debate in the native language not be a matter of these people in prison? Can it be said that they were convicted or arrested without defending themselves in their native language, and that they were prevented from defending themselves for almost 56,000 of them who have still been in trial and have been trying to defend themselves in their native language over the past three years, and that they were struggling to regain those rights of defense, and that they had nothing to do with them? The second demand: to change the conditions of the isolation of Mr. Abdullah Ocalan, to be given equal rights to all other prisoners. What's not to understand? It's the logic of their own nervousness that they can't trust and that they don't want him to live under those conditions. What's not to understand? And you all know that lockdown isn't legal, guys. Unfortunately, the statement made by Deputy Prime Minister Brent Arinc is inaccurate in terms of our law, and there is no legal decree that restricts the meeting of prisoners with lawyers and notaries, and there is no sentence left to the pleasure of the administration. I myself did 14 years in prison, served eight years in prison, talked to my lawyer until the last day. That day was worse than today, the terms of the execution law. Then why should there be such a judgment under today's conditions? And finally education in the native language... of course they're going to demand it, and they're going to be as head over their necks as much as I am, and they know that it's not going to be solved tomorrow, but they expect an approach from here, from the government. Now, while all this is real demand, while this is a real strike, let's not have these deaths, folks. Look, I mean it from the bottom of my heart, and from the bottom of my heart, you can think before I do, that one person will be born in the wake of his funeral from these prisons, that one will be born, that one will be born, that the heart will be poured out, that all these feelings that have swelled in the public, that there will be no good results from all of this. The Prime Minister wants to test people with hunger and death. I'm not surprised that people who have won this test a hundred times have tried to win it again, but I don't recommend it, and hand over the hunger strike that our deputies have started, and let's continue this strike. Let's not doubt that the Prime Minister will get the answer from the Kurdish people, where he will applaud his attitude, where he will applaud them, where he will accept it, and that he will take it from the democrats of Turkey, against these people, against our people, against the Kurdish people. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0062par0523	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. On behalf of the groups, any further requests...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0063par0525	Don't you talk, AKP...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0064par0526	We won't talk now, we'll wait.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0063par0527	You're not talking. Sir, the AKP says he won't speak, we will, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0064par0528	I didn't say we weren't gonna talk, I said we were waiting.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0063par0529	You said, "We will not defend." You said, "The minister will defend."
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0065par0530	Mr. Yilmaz, come in. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Adana MP Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0066par0533	Mr. President, I have received a promise from the esteemed lawmakers regarding the minister of forest and waterworks. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, we're going through a process where the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs' ability to run this Ministry has been eliminated. I want you to listen very seriously to what I'm saying. You know, Mr. Prime Minister, without serious issues, the genesis are not a gene. He says, "Now, we're going to talk about serious issues, and we're going to look at your sincerity in this matter, and we're going to address your consciences. Now, look, the esteemed MPs, the Minister himself, he's a teacher, he's a student of his employees. He's running a Ministry that, with such understanding, he's appointing you, the son of a valued lawmakers, out in the open. He'll explain who he is soon. Look, Chief of Staff is getting a salary from the Office of Strategic Development. Does he serve as President of Strategy Development? He's not. Why is he getting paid for being President of Strategy Development? Because his addendum is 6400, which is the general manager's rights and salary. Is that legal? Again... ORMAN AND WATER WORKS FOR 48 HOURS. No matter how many hours he works, Mr. Secretary. Now, Mustafa Yasır first appoints the Chief of Staff, does not do the job any day; then he takes the position; then, with this final decree, the advisor's salary has increased by 1 billion dollars; he immediately transfers his associates, relatives, relatives to special staff, including his brother's son, who is close to him -- I'll tell the master -- to get a special salary with special staff. Now, you have to ask Mr. Secretary, who's watching us: millions of our young people -- with their KPSS exams -- who knows two languages, but who do you take them for when the test is failing? In the Ministry of Forestry, who worked 24 hours in the fires... he said just now: Our Chief of Staff works 48 hours. Look, forestmen work 24 hours. There's a forest fire worker who doesn't sleep for three days in the summer, waiting for a staff. Forest engineers don't sleep for three days, forest managers don't sleep for three days; that's how regional managers, general managers, forest rangers work. It's just that you're giving your Chief of Staff 6400 additional indicators, and what's their fault? Now, is it possible for you to get some revenue from a ministry that you've run with that understanding? You've dismissed the employees, you've seen yourself as a teacher, you've seen the staff as a student. A system that you've appointed, Mr. Secretary, not by virtue of the integrity of the forestry, who thinks that the history of forestry begins with you, ignoring the enormous services of the forestmen. Now, from here, you know the headquarters of the Ministry of Forestry, don't you, valued lawmakers? At the centre of the Ministry of Forestry, there's 10 trillion in corruption downstairs, 10 trillion in the minister.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0067par0545	No way!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0066par0546	Who will be billed for this corruption -- the press too -- for this corruption? A charter called "Karatyat" is now in prison. Now, from here, I ask your consciences and the Minister: Is he on the duty of general managers who are in charge of spending? Come in, give it to me in a moment.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0067par0548	He's on duty. Wow!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0066par0549	Well, I'm going to say something even more interesting: you know what's being done by the general manager who has a spending authority and has a signature on this 10 trillion-dollar corruption? Right now, the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Forestry is now undersecretary of the Ministry of Forestry. [[From MHP rows, they sound like... ooh...]] Do you know what another general manager is doing in this corruption with his signature on it?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0067par0552	His company is Hayriye!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0066par0553	The Court is being appointed to oversee the nation's treasure.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0068par0554	It's like a cat and a liver.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0066par0555	Yeah. Now, it's not right to judge without questioning, without trial, but I'm asking the Minister and his deputies, especially the AKP Group: Where are these 10 trillion? We don't have 10 trillion right now. So that's the only thing that got 10 trillion dollars... so where's the money, 10 trillion?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0069par0557	The Minister will know.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0066par0558	Whose money is this? This is the treasure's money; it's the poor poor man's money, the strange guru's money, the orphans' money. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this money needs to come out. Those of you who have access to this money have signatures of 30 or 40 high-level people. Still on duty, I ask the Minister, can you fit your conscience? Do you have a conscience to appoint an undersecretary of general managers who signed off on this?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0069par0560	Well, it does.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0070par0561	Would he do it if it didn't fit?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0066par0562	So this money, the valued lawmakers, it's gone, it's gone. This money is the property of the treasure, the property of the nation...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0071par0563	He's on trial.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0066par0564	Sir?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0071par0565	He's on trial.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0066par0566	Separate...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0071par0567	It's not a separate decision, it's a court order...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0066par0568	The deficits, the Minister will explain. Look, I'm telling you, there's still nothing like finding a cover for this. There could be negligence in something. Let me ask you something here. Look, it's got his signature on it. I'm telling you, it's got his signature. Congressman, if I convince you, vote on your conscience. I'm saying it's got his signature on it. If this is negligence, you need to remove the man who committed this negligence. What do you need to do with the person who neglected this, the person who caused this neglect? You're not supposed to be an undersecretary. I'll ask you something: look, the forestry people know, you don't see a tree being cut down at the top of the mountain. You can send inspectors from the custodian to the chief, to the business manager. You start with the custodian, you start with the custodian, you start with the manager in charge, you send inspectors all the way to the manager, you send inspectors to the district manager, you raid, you open an investigation, and you suspend them. Is it moral or not to dismiss those who are negligent here until this is done?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0072par0571	It's not.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0066par0572	I'm asking you so clearly.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0073par0573	Kayseri also remained on top of a myth.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0066par0574	Yeah, now there's something else...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0074par0575	There's more, isn't there?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0066par0576	Look, I'll tell you something else: ▪ Who will dig the caveman that won't be too tight for you? If I told you to bury you, you wouldn't fit. I'll wrap it up in the evening. I can't say I've done anything again. Yes, it's a poem that the Prime Minister reads in the brochure and read in the Canakkale, dedicated to the spirit of Çanakkale, our national struggle. We all get goose bumps when we read this poem.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0075par0582	Let's write it down: 'Haram halal' my God, I'll eat your strange servant.'
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0066par0583	But here's what I'm going to tell you about the memory of Çanakkale, a case that even contaminated our Prime Minister's poem. Mr. Secretary, do you remember that book, that book? Do you remember this book?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0076par0584	Of course he remembers!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0077par0585	Let me remind you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0066par0586	Yes, but these books have been collected, my friends. Look, but it was sent to me by a patriot, it was captured, it was... do you know why it was collected? Open up the page of this, and look, while the work is going on at a rapid rate, the construction of the steel construction process is going to the ground level...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0076par0587	Can you read the title of the book, Mr. Seyfettin? Let's put it on the record.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0066par0588	...at a time when productions were completed in the workshop, some of the electronic materials came to the site, and the other part came according to the peyderpey order schedule, and most of the decorations were done in the factory, where the film was filmed in the facility, and the Gintas Construction, Contract and Trade firm is suing and winning the case. Okay, he's winning the case. Now, there are lawyers among you, and there are members of the public. And look, you know what the ministry says? The company, which received the tender, paid for the winning firm's costs and stopped the lawsuit to meet the demand for profit deprivation, says the company. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this alone is a Supreme Court offense. It's corruption in the tender, it's corruption in the tender. What's going on, dear friends? First, does he pay for the firm that won this case, put it in his pocket? The firm that won the case is not satisfied with it, ▪ I have a lack of profit here. So I was going to make 3 or 4 trillion dollars on the job, he says. All this money... here in the Ministry's book, in a book with pictures of the Prime Minister and the Minister, they declare it themselves and a Ministry official picks it out, says we've reported ourselves. We have reduced ourselves to criminals, and this book is being collected instantly, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0078par0591	Let's put that book on the record.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0079par0592	So, officially, there's no such book.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0066par0593	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Here you go, Mr. Secretary. He'll be out in a moment. He'll answer this book. [[Noises from MHP and AK PARTY]] Look, you answer me. I'm telling you, Mr. Secretary, I mean, I've got at least 15, 20 more files, so don't take my time.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0080par0597	There's plenty more, don't get excited!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0066par0598	I've got 15, 20 more files, so let me do that. The minister will come out. When the minister comes out, tell him that we did not print and distribute this book.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0081par0600	You're saying there's no such book, officially.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0082par0601	What was the name of the book, Mr. Seyfettin, for the record?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0083par0602	Forget it! It's a book, you see, it's not a book!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0084par0603	Look, the Prime Minister's statement... who's this? Mr. Veysel Eroglu. Later, okay, this book is being collected, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0082par0604	What was the name of the book, Mr. Seyfettin?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0083par0605	It's a wary book.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0084par0606	Gallipoli Peninsula Historical National Park Kabatepe Simulation Center... Something's being put back on the market, and that's what's being released here. Now, the interesting thing is, how much of a bid is this? A 58 trillion bid, dear friends. Now, how much does it cost? It costs 79-80 trillion liras. Look, commissions are being changed here, commissions are being changed that don't sign their dues. The minister is meeting in his room, let him explain, Mustafa Eldemir, general managers, these, these. It says: "These will be signed."
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0085par0608	I applaud you standing up.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0084par0609	Look, dear friends, in the end, the condition has been forced to sign a right to electronic material and sound order that is not in the contract. See, Bulent Karaoglu, the architect, who didn't sign this despite being changed, is displaying honorable behavior and resigning. Another civil engineer named Taner is being transferred from Çanakkale to Van Naha from Çanakkale -- there are records, there are commissions -- he is being transferred from Çanakkale. Now, dear friends, I don't want to get emotional. We care deeply about this service, and we applaud this service, but where there's that Chanakkale spirit, don't even bring up such shady matters, for God's sake. Look, in Çanakkale, because he owes a mejid debt, he writes a letter to his father after he's been killed, saying: "I owe a fortune to a grocery store." The grocery store says: "It's paid." I mean, there's a lot of epic events like this in Çanakkale. Now, you're doing such a great job here -- I've read it in both books -- the poem of the Prime Minister, so these are the places where there's respect for their beloved memory -- where there's a saintly memory, where there's the spirit of Çanakkale, isn't it right to bring up such shady issues?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0086par0612	When we sold Gallipoli, we caught Anzaks here with the motion.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0087par0613	They're selling the souls of Çanakkale, who are you telling?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0084par0614	Now, my dear friends, look, there's been a break-in in the Istanbul area. Now, Mr. Secretary will be out shortly, sir, from the time of the Forest Regional Directorate, we've done this much. I want you to know the facts. Look, the esteemed MPs, the Minister is on his way. Before the minister came into office, at the time of Osman Pepe, the Forest Regional Directorate of the period started a study on the rehabilitating, reforestation, reforestation, reforestation -- you all know, in Istanbul, the delivery business is very important -- and here it comes up, it opens a tender; here it is, 50,000 cubic metres, 75,000 cubic metres, 100,000 cubic metres -- companies are going into the tender.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0088par0616	The Minister who sells houses in Çukurambar.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0084par0617	He gets this tender that shoots money, raises money, gives the public, the government the most money. That's how it starts, but when the Minister comes in and visits the Istanbul Regional Manager one day, he visits the Istanbul Regional Manager a few weeks after he takes office... do you know who's with him? İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality Department of Environmental Protection and Control President İbrahim Demir. The Istanbul Regional Directorate has gathered as a delegation, saying: "Don't do this landfill. Hand these over to the municipality. Who's giving the presentation, who's giving the speech? Ibrahim Demir, head of the EPA. And, of course, the authorities of the Forest General Directorate oppose it in the interest of the public, in the interest of the public. As a result, all this work at the Forest District Department is being stopped. Look, do you know what happens after this Ibrahim Demir? Eagle 1. He is being suspended from prosecution and duty on charges of being involved in a gang taking a large amount of bribes in exchange for being present at the High Criminal Court's tender-free waste sites. What happens next?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0089par0619	I'm sure they've been tauttling.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0084par0620	Look, dear friends, what happens next? Mr. Secretary, he's taking these places by changing a law and handing them over to the municipalities. Now, the Minister says: "Ask the Minister, not only Istanbul, but also Izware, Bursah, Adana, Manisa, and here. Ask him this question -- you will clear it again in private -- the party group decision, but -- how much is there in Istanbul about the hafiat document?" Some say $5 billion, $5 billion, some say $50 billion. Now, the tender -- I'm asking you -- he's getting a job with five to ten people, the city of Istanbul, the corporations -- and who's putting them there? Cevat Jaman, his own bureaucrat from the Ministry and a student from the university, is appointing him to head office.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0089par0621	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0084par0622	And do you know who he brings to the branch manager in charge of this weekend's work, dear friends?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0089par0623	İbrahim Demir...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0084par0624	No, no... he's your brother's son.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0090par0625	No way!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0084par0626	Your brother's son, Türker Eroglu. First, he hires this person, his nephew, his brother's son. He starts as a civil servant from the Chief of Staff, and then he's brought here to the head of the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality's misdeeds. Now, Mr. Secretary can say that. For 30 cents, it goes up to five liras where the cubic meter goes, 15 to 20 times that in the tenders. Now, look, valued lawmakers, we're talking about 3-5 billion to 50 billion. Come on, let's set up a commission with three of the most competent lawmakers or experts, or say yes to this, let's look into it, let's go and look who's been given these money-free tenders, look who's been paid without a contract, who's earned how much money and how much damage has been done to the state, how much damage has been done to the public? Now, what I'm saying is, I'm going to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Now you can clear it here with a majority of fingers. Because there's a finger democracy! But I assure you, Mr. Secretary, that we will surely be followers of your work, that the High Court may appear to you, but even if nothing happens, there is a court-martial, there is no escape from the justice of God, dear lawmakers. Now, I'd like to talk to you about this last, current Aghaoglu, about Aliaya.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0091par0632	How they got scared of the gene, and then they canceled! Here's the power of the MHP.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0084par0633	Look, dear friends, I'm here to discuss budget... Look, I worked at this Ministry, I warned the Minister. I said: Mr. Minister, work with the men of merit, take your positions with the staff who know the business. I said, if you serve with people close to you, you'll have serious problems with them. We've been talking about this in budget talks, the Assembly General Assembly... I'm a forest boy, my father's a forest ranger. I'm a boy growing up in the mountains. I've served this agency for years as a forest engineer myself. ▪ Come and do the right things. Put aside your followers, your comrades, your kinsmen, and bring forth the righteous. Don't shut down the forestmen because these forestmen have a hundred and seventy-three years of tradition and have savings. One more thing I warned you, I said: Mr. Secretary, with the arrangements in this ministry, you've put the Ministry in an impossible position.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0092par0635	The matter of Aghaoglu...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0084par0636	I'll be there. I said, "You have the hammer on someone else's shoulder, and they'll come and play your drums from Dan, Dan, Dan." I've had these conversations. Why am I telling you this? He transferred nature parks to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. He brought his social information teacher to the National Parks General Directorate because he knew him who had never had a day's experience in this agency, and his entire business was supposed to be about 100 percent of the work of forest engineering. Now, look, valued lawmakers, this Agaoglu incident really came out as a result of public pressure, our geneor and citizens' pressure. Now, what would have happened if it hadn't happened? It was an understanding that had been launched in Dubai, which struck the bird of the brook with the gravel of the brook. I'm running out of time. December 24th... the minister made a statement yesterday, you know, we canceled. Now, what does this place do? HE replaces TOKI, markets the view of the forest, and Dubai launches, and he earns good money. Well, I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary: December 24, 2010, December 24, 2010. Where have you been for three years, Mr. Secretary? Look, let me just say one more thing and I'll finish... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On today's website of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, this is the site of development. It's the first in the history of forestry. It's been turned into a nature park, it's been built. Check the Istanbul - Official website of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0093par0645	Mr. President, turn on the microphone, for the record. It's very important.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0084par0646	This place is being built, and they're going to make bungalows here.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0094par0647	Mr. President, turn on the microphone.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0095par0648	Oh, my God! That's enough! I swear!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0084par0649	Mr. Secretary, from 2010... I read your statement today -- the general is coming, the televisions are writing, the newspapers are writing -- today, fear has surrounded the mountains and we have cancelled. (Applause from MHP rows) In 2010, it became a stock exchange. Where have you been for three years, Mr. Secretary, to cancel this?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0096par0651	Mr. Yilmaz, thank you. On behalf of the groups, the final speaker is Zeyid Aslan, the Slap Congressman, the AK PARTY Group. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you are, Mr. Zeyid. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0097par0656	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group in my staff in discussions on the political position of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, the destruction of the Gazi Settlement, the attracting of the Forest Directorate's site, and the handover of the Hafiyat areas to the Metropolitan Municipality of Istanbul's Forestry and Water Affairs Minister, Mr. Veysel Eroglu, who abused his position. First of all, I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, for nearly 70 minutes, I've tried to listen to my friends on the genome I've just expressed. So much so that in ten minutes' speech from our esteemed congressman friend, who was speaking on behalf of the recipients of the motion, there was not a sentence about the content of the motion for the gene. I wonder if he's talking about the wrong thing or the wrong thing.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0098par0658	For God's sake!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0097par0659	After that, our friend on behalf of the CHP Group has nothing more to say than to read the statements I just read. He tried to express Manisa's distress over a forest area in Manisa for a period of 20 minutes. Our congressman, who later appeared on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party, did not address anything other than the current hunger strikes in the last few minutes, which is more than the view of capitalism by a Marxist ideology.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0098par0660	Now, wait a minute, what do you have to say?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0097par0661	Thank you for the last time -- Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz, who was the first signator in the motion for the gene -- followed the twenty-minute speech -- referred to the current areas of his presence in the two-minute session in Istanbul, which I also thanked myself for -- because I listened carefully to what meeting we were having today, about Mr. Veysel Eroglu, about that content given by friends from MHP, or was I mistakenly understood that I would not have to have to talk about anything else when I was on the stand.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0098par0662	Wake up, let's go fishing!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0097par0663	This actually shows something. In each session, I tried to tell a lying shepherd story about Mr. Besir Atalay, about two months ago -- in his general meeting with Mr. Besir Atalay, where he began to lose the seriousness of his business every day -- but we see that, in what sense, we have to strengthen the political institution, or increase the political institution's credibility, that it will cause the political institution to lose its dignity, that it will cause the political institution to lose its dignity, and that we should pay attention to it as lawmakers and politicians here, but we can see that, in what sense, let us say, is to strengthen the political institution, to promote politics, to increase the institution's political institution, if we are to increase its credibility, to promote its political institution, to the institution's a political institution, to maintain its power, to continue its power, and to maintain the political institution's power, and to continue its efforts, and to achieve the political institution. This semester -- he's always given the questions to the CHP -- all of a sudden we don't know what's going on.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0098par0665	You know, you know!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0099par0666	You understand, you understand!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0097par0667	Prior to the grand convention, prior to the convention, the MHP gave me seven consecutive genes.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0099par0668	From now on, two more come every week!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0097par0669	I guess I said the CHP's been giving and working and trying for years, trying to explain, but at this point, it just doesn't work, so I guess he's tired, so the watch needs to be taken over.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0100par0670	Yeah, when are you gonna talk about the content of that gene question? You're criticizing the world, when are you going to get to the point?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0097par0671	Now, I believe the CHP has handed over to the MPP. I won't say anything about it. That's what happens when you don't vote on your conscience. It's not like you to use it on your conscience.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0101par0673	From now on, there are two of them every week.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0102par0674	When are you gonna stop telling that story? Look, you've been telling stories for five minutes, five minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0097par0675	Dear friends, since I haven't been able to listen to anything in 70 minutes...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0103par0676	There'll be more of them.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0097par0677	...because I can't hear anything concrete about the allegations in the context of that genome here...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0103par0678	We ask, you answer.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0097par0679	What in God's name am I supposed to say?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0104par0680	Answer what's written, what's written.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0105par0681	We're holding minutes, minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0097par0682	Speaking on behalf of the proposed owners, our minister's other actions expressed other concerns he claimed. If so, bring it in. If you have any questions or information about those issues, if you have any documents, you can move them to the relevant authorities.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0106par0683	How do you respond to those serious allegations? Look, how do you look at those serious allegations?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0097par0684	But today, if you don't come out here today and address your own client with questions, such as the destruction of the district of the Veterans, the area in Istanbul, and the destruction of the Gazi compound, then you don't believe it yourself.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0107par0685	It's all written down. Answer what's written down, your reading, your writing!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0097par0686	You'll be here if you believe me. There's 12 signatures, 12 men, but that's all there is to it.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0108par0688	Don't talk nonsense, don't talk nonsense.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0097par0689	I mean, if you believe your client, if you really know you're right, you'll keep your group here.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0109par0690	Defended to the end. I don't think you understand.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0110par0691	How many people do you have? How many do you have?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0097par0692	Because we didn't believe it, our friends found it unnecessary to listen to such a nonsensical session. So I had to listen.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0111par0693	You don't take the question as a power seriously. You have a problem with democracy. You don't take the opposition seriously, you don't take the generic seriously, you take it seriously, this place would be packed.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0097par0694	Now, my dear friends, I'm interested in two issues in the context of the gene...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0112par0695	There's more, there's more... there's more...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0097par0696	We'll talk about them when you bring them in. I'd like to talk to you about two issues: One says that the destruction of the Grievy Settlement will take place. I've got the gene, I've read the motive.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0112par0698	You don't get it!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0097par0699	You know, I thought I'd see what was done about the Veteran compound, Mr. Seyfetttin, read the text you wrote...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0113par0700	Give me five minutes and I'll tell you about the Gazi compound.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0097par0701	Not even a sentence, not a word, not a word, not a word, not a word, not a word. Now, I said, "What part of the Veteran compound was destroyed, and how was it destroyed?" I didn't see a statement about it in the healing speech.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0113par0702	Look, look, don't talk and look at these pictures!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0114par0703	Read all about it, write all about it!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0113par0704	Just give me five more minutes, and I'll tell you all about it.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0705	You were going to tell me about it a little while ago. Not now, if you were going to tell me about it a little while ago.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0116par0706	It's just a matter of the week enough to take, Minister!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0707	Now, of course, I'm going to say something about the destruction of the Veteran compound, but I'm not going to talk about it because I don't see anything in the medical statement or the written text about what the claim is.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0117par0708	Look, look, look at these. Look and answer. See what happens. See the tarumar, the tarmac! Look at the tarmac, the tarmac!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0116par0709	Do you know anything?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0710	But I was wondering if it had something to do with the construction of the Prime Minister's office on the forest headquarters property that the forest headquarters had built with the TOKI. I explained to my friends at the forest headquarters, to our Minister: "What is this issue of the destruction of the Gazi compound?" They said it might have something to do with this, because there's no concrete information to reach us.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0116par0711	Yeah, this guy didn't get it!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0712	Now, if that's what you call the destruction of the Ghazi compound, if that's what you're calling the Prime Minister's office building, which will be built by TOİ on the forest headquarters property, I'm here to personally wonder what political influence the Minister is using, what laws he's breaking, what corruption he's committing. I mean, the public...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0116par0713	Are you curious about this piece of junk, too?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0714	I'll be there, wait, just be patient!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0116par0715	Did you wonder about that, too?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0716	Just be patient. He'll get there, don't worry about it!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0116par0717	Come to him. Look, you've been talking for ten minutes, telling stories!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0718	Don't worry, I'll be there. I'll be there, don't worry.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0116par0719	You've been talking for ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0720	I won't waste it on nothing like you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0118par0721	You're talking nonsense!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0722	Now, if...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0119par0723	Did you practice law at City Hall, bro?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0724	I didn't.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0120par0725	Whose are you doing, then?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0119par0726	Whose are you doing now?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0727	If you're a document... will you document that I'm a city attorney?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0121par0728	What if it is?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0119par0729	What are you talking about? Look, it's been ten minutes, you're not telling me anything. You haven't said anything in ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0730	What are you talking about? So, what are you talking about? What are you saying about everything you don't know? You're getting out of there all the time. Sit down. Listen, like a man. Listen carefully. We listened respectfully. We listened respectfully to Seyfettin Bey, listened respectfully to our other friend, and didn't make a sound. Sit down and listen!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0119par0732	You don't speak with respect! Look, you don't answer the speakers with respect!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0733	Oh, don't talk! You're not gonna tell me how to talk.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0119par0734	I'm asking you how to behave?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0735	I'm not gonna learn from you. Mind your own business! Go!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0122par0737	Go ahead, tell us.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0738	Now, if the Department of Forestry is the transfer of the territory to the Prime Minister, let someone show corruption, irregularity, violation of the law, political influence, I didn't see it. Dear friends -- I don't express it to friends -- because no matter what I say, they'll already read what they know -- about this incident called the destruction of the Gazi compound -- I'm a lawyer, I looked, I couldn't find anything, I couldn't find anything, please, my friends, it's one.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0123par0741	Look, you can look at this, look at the picture, look at the picture and applaud.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0742	Two: Sir, political influence has been used, irregularity has been committed, corruption has been committed in the area of the forest headquarters in İstanbul. Now, until 1996, this area of the Forest General Directorate does not take any time; there is also a amendment to legislation, starting in 1996, a warrant from the Forest General Directorate is being issued to these areas, and by 2009, the Forest General Directorate is allowing these areas to be paid for. At the same time, it must be brought back to the forest by planting saplings of the size of trees, which I think I don't know much about the technical side, to bring back to the forest. From 1996 to 2009, the Forest General Directorate made 36 million dollars in money, 36 trillion in old money, 36 million in new money, and 36 million in 13 years. So, what did he spend on recycled forest areas? 21 million. Get out of 36, 21. There are those who know how to calculate - 15 million. So in 13 years, the Director-General of the Forest has made 15 million dollars in these areas. Well, there was a change in the Law of the Forest in 2009. Now, I want to make one thing clear: I mean, the change in the Minister's Law of the Forest is expressed. Friends, we're all MPs, the ministers don't make the changes in the law, the House does. So the amendment to the Law on the Forest, adopted by the Assembly, has been decided that these areas of the week could be handed down to municipalities outside of the Forest General Directorate. Then, since 2011, about a year and a half - two years ago, the area of the Forest Regional Directorate in Istanbul has been used by İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality as a waste zone. How much did the Forest General Directorate collect from the Metropolitan Municipality for permission during the nearly two years that began at the beginning of 2011, and reached the end of 2012? 37 million in two years. So, what's in it for you? I've just expressed that these areas need to be recycled. You know, the forest headquarters spent 20 million and recycled it, and for five years, the cost of recycling these areas is city hall. Did we save 20 of them? Here's 57 million, two years for the Director General of the Forest. Where in God's name is corruption here?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0124par0745	We're talking $1 billion, $1 billion...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0746	Where's the irregularity here? Where's the irregularity here?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0125par0747	Tell me how much money you made!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0126par0748	It's irregular from beginning to end.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0749	Where's the damage to the public? Public, Director General of the Forest...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0127par0750	Let's go! Come, let's examine three. Come on, let's go!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0751	I'm asking you guys, I gave you the numbers.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0127par0752	Yes, let's take a look, if you have the heart.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0753	If there are any different numbers, get them to come out.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0127par0754	No, let's all go through it together, come on.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0755	He couldn't tell us the numbers anyway, guys, because if they told us the numbers, it would be obvious.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0127par0756	No, let's examine it together for God's sake.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0757	He won 57 million Forest General Directorates in two years, while he made 20 million in the previous legislation in 13 years. That's the kind of gene they gave the Minister for hurting the public so you could raise the $20 million to 57 million. Now, of course, I'm not going to answer any of the other matters that are not in Mr. Minister's generic context, which I don't know about; he'll certainly give it to me if he wants to answer, but it's not immoral that the Gazi compound should be vandalized, and there's no law against the illegal and illegal transfer of the Hafi district of Istanbul. At this point, you can say no about Mr. Minister's generic interviews, with your conscience clear and clear, because they have not disclosed any documents, information, evidence, which would suggest that the Minister has abused the position and has damaged the public. Dear friends, we've been having a legislature meeting for less than ten days. I'm a third-term MP. For nearly 11 years, we've been trying to contribute to our country, to do the right thing for our nation, to bring about beauty. But as I've seen what's happened in the House over the last ten days, I wonder if we're doing something wrong somewhere, something we can't see, and the opposition is seeing it, and I've been trying to account for myself from time to time, trying to figure it out when I go to sleep.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0128par0759	Bravo!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0760	But for some reason, I can't really see where we did wrong, what they saw or what we couldn't see. We've been accused of treason, of dividing the country...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0129par0761	Everyone's got a flaw!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0762	... We've been accused of breaking the brotherhood of the people in this country, so many slanders, so many accusations of treason...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0130par0763	It's about his younger brother, isn't it?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0764	...there have been so many attacks on this group with the paranoia of dissolution that...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0131par0765	That's good, our friend's talking about his gene.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0132par0766	Yeah, well, there's nothing left to talk about!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0767	What if, as a child of a poor family born in Tokat, loving their homeland, loving their nation, six children, I come here and I try to sell this country? Do I, as a man of forty-eight years old, abandon 48 years of national struggle, flag struggle, unity struggle, brotherhood struggle, and divide Turkey with a city law?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0133par0768	You're telling us the same thing!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0769	Now, in fact, when we're in opposition, we need to look back at what those who say these words actually do in their power eras. So today, as our Prime Minister likes to call it, it's important to see how those who walk and speak freely without egg mold on their backs, when they take a little egg mold on their backs, how they act, how they change their speech.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0134par0770	Ask yourself that.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0771	Not too far, not too short, but ten years, 12 years ago, when we turn around and say two words, we see in Turkey that those who come to power by deceiving people do the opposite of those two words. What? There are 99 elections, two words in the squares: we'll hang the Apo. We'll untie the headscarf like men.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0135par0773	Come on, hang it up, hang it up! The rope is yours, come on, hang it up!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0774	Now, for years you've been saying "homeland..."
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0136par0775	Your companion, Ocalan, is your companion!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0776	...to play with the emotions of nationalists who have struggled with the flag...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0136par0777	You said he's an interviewing bastard...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0778	...that the sons of this country came to the House after they got the vote in the chest, and the headscarf was unsealed by the lamb and lamb...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0137par0779	Get 'em, get 'em! Go!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0138par0780	You tell the Minister, the Minister, leave it alone, tell the Minister.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0781	...who have been waiting for the Prime Minister without bringing his death certificate to Parliament...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0139par0782	Where were you when we brought you in? You hid under the cot!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0140par0783	Don't talk about things you don't know!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0784	...we've all seen how their virility in the opposition has turned to timidity in power, and so have these people!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0141par0786	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0142par0787	You're the one who dropped the execution!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0788	So, when you were in power, when the U.S. economic advisor came out and said that we as the IMF had bought Turkey, what national emotion did you act with that didn't make a sound?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0143par0789	Don't sweep into this hole... to whom did he say? Then why didn't you say anything?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0142par0790	You said "interviewed son of a bitch." You should know your honor and your dignity!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0792	Even though our blood was flowing at that time, the victory was Islam's....walking from street to street....the nationalists, the conservatives..
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0143par0793	Who are you, nationalist! Get him, get him, get him!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0794	...those who took the lovers' vote and stopped their children from becoming police here until they were twelve years old, what nationalism did you act on?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0143par0795	What do you have to do with nationalism?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0796	For God's sake, I'm asking you, who can't speak to Soros, who can't speak to Morris...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0143par0797	Get 'em, get 'em!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0144par0798	Let's go, let's go! Go on!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0799	...who are subcontractors of Dervis, who destroy the nationalist love of Prime Minister in one night, look at yourself, question yourself.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0144par0800	You're the one who negotiated in Oslo. Go to Oslo, you go to Oslo!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0801	People have already seen you, but I thank you -- the season is over -- and I thank you...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0145par0802	Your lover is Sevda Hill. You're confusing the love of the land with the love of Sevda Hill.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0144par0803	You go to Oslo, Oslo.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0804	...God bless you, you did a good job at the time, you made an early election decision...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0146par0806	What did you do in the Oslo negotiations?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0807	...you have opened the way to the AK PARTY, which brings these people out of the darkness into the light.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0147par0808	Go to Oslo! Go to Oslo!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0115par0809	I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0147par0811	Let's go! Go!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0148par0812	Thank you, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0149par0813	Why didn't the Oslo negotiations hurt your conscience, my slap-ass brother? Go! Get 'em, get 'em!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0147par0814	He who meets the PKK is a bastard!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0150par0815	I'd like your word on the bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0151par0816	Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0150par0817	I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0152par0818	He picked on me using his name.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0151par0819	Two minutes, please, without further ado.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0153par0820	Mission accomplished, three-term parliamentary committee complete. Don't talk to me about nationalism.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0152par0821	You don't have people, you have nationalism.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0154par0824	Dear friends, I've made some serious claims here. There's the right of a servant here, there's the right of an orphan here, there's the trouble with the souls of the martyrs, you'll have to answer for them. This is the Minister, the Minister, he'll answer in a moment. Now, I said all that. Look, dear friends, let the Minister answer this -- why did you spend trillions of dollars on plumbing and repairs, Mr. Secretary, if he's been transferred to the Prime Minister for two or three years? Look, you've built a fire center, you've built an IT center, you've built a Veteran compound, and right now the damage to the state is trillions. Now, would a minister give false information? Dear MPs, I'm a forester, I served 11 years at the Gazi compound. When I asked him about these things, Mr. Minister said: "Mr. Regents have them, there is no misinformation, there is no lying -- not one tree will be cut down." He said, "Not one tree will be cut down." Here you are, ladies and gentlemen. Let him answer them, and let him answer Mr. Zeyid, who said, "Talan, this one." I thought the tree wasn't going to be cut down. So one tree will not be cut down in the great assembly. You will say, "One tree will not be cut down in the commission." Here you go, look at you yesterday, look at you today. Yes, what are these? These are the Gazi compounds. Yes, now, that's what we're saying, but if you don't act on your conscience, you can't go through with it. Now, one of the questions is the parking lot used by the Justice and Development Party. Probably Zeyid Aslan's car in that parking lot right in front of him. The parking lot where you guys, you know, pull up the election buses. Do you know who owns that land, dear friends? Yeah, admit it. This land is the property of the forest headquarters.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0155par0830	What do we do, move him?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0154par0831	So, the forest headquarters's land, the estate of the Justice and Development Party, is being taken from the headquarters of the city's zoning district to normalise its building, and what does the Justice and Development Party use it as? He's using it as a parking lot. I told you to fix it. Look, how that helped. I've just heard that they're trying to pick a place when they say that. Even that's a win.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0156par0834	Mr. Yilmaz, thank you. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Oz, here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0157par0837	Mr. President, it's about the fact that our congressman, our friend, spoke on behalf of the motion, did not have any opinion of the motion, he was talking about something different. That's why I want a promise.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0156par0838	Here you go. Please, two minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0157par0841	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, before I complete my statement on the proposal made by the National Movement Party in my speech, I made a statement as to how the Minister's changes to the organization's construction within the Ministry of Forest have been laid out for me in ten minutes. None of this has anything to do with the motion. Mr. Secretary used his influence to put close, close to his own organization, close to his own union, people who had nothing to do with forest engineering, into the ministry's staff, to prepare a prerequisite for doing things from behind. That's what I meant. It's relevant. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0158par0845	Thank you, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0159par0846	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0158par0847	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0159par0848	Sir, he made some remarks about the status of the National Movement Party Group in 1999. We'd like a word about the bullying of the group about him, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0158par0849	Mr. Vural, please. Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0159par0851	Mr. Ali Longırmak
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0160par0852	He made a political statement.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0158par0853	Mr. Ali Longırmak Aydın MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0161par0856	Mr. President, thank you. We knew that the speaker, Zeyid Aslan, was a lawyer, but we witnessed here how dangerous he could be presented to society when a lawyer, a prosecutor, who at the same time produced false evidence, took the form of a judge who was willing to make a decision with that false evidence.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0162par0858	Look in the mirror, in the mirror...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0161par0859	I'll show you the mirror!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0163par0860	Please... please...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0161par0862	If you want, I'll do it both in and out, okay?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0164par0863	You'd look good in that!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0161par0864	I'll show you the mirror!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0165par0865	Please...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0161par0866	Dear friends, first of all, the National Movement Party has not made a statement from the mouth of its corporate personality, saying, "We will hang Apo" in the election squares. But we've seen his lawyer today, and we've seen in the past the statements of Mr. Prime Minister... how the execution of the past was lifted, in the statements of Ertugrul Yalçınbayir, in the State Minister's own cabinet member. Later, we saw Mr. Prime Minister's accusations of dishonor in the squares about negotiations and execution, and today his contrast with the return of the execution is a society that is living three contradictions at once... if you can't decide with your conscience, if you can't decide with your conscience, if you can't see these contradictions, what do you need to show? In a government of which the National Movement Party has a one-third share in its rule -- everything he's facing -- the death penalty has been lifted with your deputies -- these parliamentary transcripts and the nation as witnesses -- your own Minister explains. What do you still claim? Dear friends, if your claims aren't true, you won't be able to build the right policy and be true. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] First of all, accept it. If you can't accept it, then there have been no mobile courts, no Habur. As long as you're here, review your policies and review them wisely.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0165par0869	Mr. Longitude, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0161par0870	We are the MPs of this country, and if we all work for this country, we need to find a way to resolve these issues honestly, sincerely and maturely. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0165par0873	Thank you, Mr. Longneck.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0166par0874	Mr. President said, like all the other speakers, our conversation had nothing to do with the generator. He deserves an answer.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0165par0875	Here you go, sir. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0166par0877	My dear friends, I think the speaker who was speaking on behalf of the AKP Group felt that our talks were irrelevant to the geneor, that it was about a very narrow interpretation of a geneor. First, since we have not criticised the criticism of various irregularities, which were expressed in previous talks, we agree with these criticisms. However, in a more general context, the government's general policy, economic policies, the general understanding of development should be evaluated not in fact in relation to its general understanding, but in the framework of a debate with the government in terms of general understanding here. If you're going to consider the questions like a complete technical inspector's review, you're actually going to bring a full bureaucratic debate into this House. On the other hand, parliament finds opportunities and opportunities to discuss Turkey's general politics again every day. In fact, as we've often stated, since the agenda of parliament is generally off the agenda of society, we're hoping that we can raise our heads to breathe the air of the country, like all workers, in order to gain access to general politics. In fact, the Ministry's general policy and general approaches have been criticised. As for Marxism, I saw that the speaker was not able to examine whether it really was a Marxist position declaration. That's why I'm not going into this. Have a nice day.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0167par0881	Thank you, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0168par0882	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0167par0883	Here you go, Mr. Lion. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0168par0887	Mr. President, Mr. Longırmak, speaking on my speech, has made accusations about my identity as a lawyer, both the judge and the prosecutor, fabricating false evidence, fabricating forged documents, fraud.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0169par0888	I didn't say fraud!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0168par0889	Of course, I don't want to stretch the House, I don't want to stretch the House. Of course, I mean, we have to take it from the execution, there's a lot of things to say about what you just said, but we're here to stress each other out, not expose your bad side, my bad side, trying to do something right. That's why I just want to say that I've been an honorable lawyer for 14 years. In my entire life as a lawyer, I've been heavily responsible for human rights violations, especially for people who have been persecuted by the state. I didn't make any money as a lawyer, except for my own. But in my entire life as a lawyer, I've never cheated or forged a document. If anyone claims that this happened, they'll have to put up evidence, and if there's no evidence, that's where the real fraud will be.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0170par0891	That's not what he said. He didn't say it, he said it differently.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0168par0892	Therefore, I would like to say that I did not take Mr. Tallırmak's claim of fraud seriously. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0171par0895	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0172par0896	Mr. President, I didn't tell Mr. Speaker anything false. I tried to explain how dangerous it could be for society when a lawyer decided to judge both the judge and the prosecutor when he took the role of a judge and faked evidence with false evidence. So, Mr. Speaker's statements at the moment of speech are accusations of past statements that have been deflected, distorted, changed meaning, against the Nationalist Movement Party. So it's a statement that has nothing to do with the truth, and I'll be able to explain to him what's irrelevant to the truth. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0171par0898	He's got it all under control. Now, our Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. Mr. Secretary, please. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0906	Honourable President, esteemed MPs, and I salute you all. I've been specifically promised to talk to you about the gene question I've been given, sir. In particular, I'd like to point out that, in fact, the systems have been watered down quite a bit. In particular, I want to stress that I am a person who has been doing really great service in Turkey for many years.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0174par0909	Stories, fairy tales!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0910	I served eight and a half years in the past; four and a half years in the DSI, four years as Minister of the Environment. And now I work as Minister of Forest Water. Thank God, we've been running around everywhere, everywhere in Turkey, from Kars to Edirne, all the way from Sinop to Mersin. I'm proud to express it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] See, in the BSKI alone -- we know what we're getting from them -- we've cleared $1.5 billion in debt, we've submitted 600 facilities to the service of Istanbul. I thought there was no such thing as a central government. When I came to the DSI, in 2003, 82 quadrillion, the government before us had tendered 1,600 facilities. He's only got two quadrillion-dollar grants, and they put a 40-year project package in front of us. But we have not been oppressed under these things, thank God, and we have returned to our nation's service by taking back what was overpaid by a total of 3.2 quadrillion TL in State Water Affairs. Now, I don't want to talk about it. Our people know. Basically, I'm getting some really good messages from Twitter. I also pay my respects to those who listen to me because of his support for our nation. Look, I'll read a few from Twitter: I suppose the content is: Why did you open so many facilities so quickly? You should have been a little slower, we regret it. There are messages on Twitter like this.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0175par0916	Read about those who came to your MPs' Twitter, too.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0917	Dear brothers and sisters, let me make this clear: We have listened carefully to our friends. I thank them for giving us the opportunity to explain our services and our claims; that's one. Second: Now, for example, he mentioned that I've damaged the public, the state, the land of the waste. In fact, if our valued deputy had asked, some had previously filed a criminal complaint against the republic's attorney in 2010. Also, of course, this republic's attorney saw that the income received was much higher than the past, so he decided not to follow. Later, the appeal was filed, State Court 1. He's gone to the apartment, District 1. The agency voted that there was no irregularity in any way. Look, there's already a verdict. Besides, let me explain again...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0175par0919	Was it after the referendum?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0920	Before the referendum, don't worry. You can look at the names.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0176par0921	That's the other thing, Minister, it's not about them. Get to the point, forget it.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0922	In particular, let me get to the point. Now, as far as the field is concerned, since 1996, the forest agency has been tendering them, allowing the soil to fall out, but the soil is randomly falling out, and it's not clear what they're being poured out, it's uncontrollable, the forest service has left its work, and it's been busy tracking these waste trucks. So, as I remember it was in 2009, there were huge objections about this, and it was said that the shipping and management of the city's waste zones in the Metropolitan Law was entirely owned by major cities according to the Metropolitan Law. So, when the city municipalities didn't give the permit on this issue, the result, among the tendered firms, was a major conflict between our ministers and our ministry. In fact, at that time, I was Minister of the Environment Forest, and in the room of the Plan Budget Commission, a consensus was reached on the participation of the group's leaders or deputies, and a law proposal was made. Look, the President of the Plan and Budget Commission at the time is aware of this. So in the end, look, we... look, dear brothers, I don't make the law, the Minister doesn't make the law, the friends don't realize it; the Turkish Grand National Assembly makes the law. Therefore, both bureaucrats and ministers are obliged to enforce the laws adopted as executives.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0177par0924	Minister, where does the bill come from, the bill? Do you have the Minister's signature on it?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0925	In particular, I'd like to say: Look, an arrangement for the rehabilitated forests was brought to order in the result of the end of mining activities, which was adopted on 10/6/2010 in Article 19 of Law and Article 6831 added to Article 16 of the Forest Law. According to this arrangement, a law order in the form of "The City of Turkey" can be granted to the municipality of the capital and to the municipality of the province and to the municipality of the municipality of the city in the areas of the city of the Mujavir. After that, we started giving it to those who asked for it from the major cities in 2011, and I'd like to make a summary of it, and in the name of our deputy government, I'd like to give the numbers exactly: between 1996 (2009) and 2009 -- which I was then the Minister of the Environment and the Forest, which was tendered in my day, of course, in my day -- he did this, and he did this, of course, in 48 AD, equivalent, look at the numbers -- in the area of 3,919,681 square meters -- let's say, about 4 million square meters -- 788,788 m -- 73 m -- in my time -- with the amount of materialization. And in return for that, I'm just giving -- I'm giving you the exact same number -- the trillion at the time -- there was $35,125,443 in income, but I'd like to point out here, my valued representatives: here, now, what brings this land -- it pours out, but eventually, the planting, and so on, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth and so forth and so forth and so forth, and so forth and so forth, and so forth, and so forth. and so forth and so forth and so forth and so forth and so forth, and so forth and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth. and so forth. and so forth. and so forth. and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth. and so forth. and so forth. and so Of course, I've also calculated the costs for these things in Istanbul. In Istanbul, 20 million, 239,956 TL, were paid after the waste of that purpose. Finally, the net amount we received: 14 million, 885, 44 euros -- in about 13 to 14 years only -- and only here -- our former General Manager, especially our Karabuk MP, knows very well -- was made of 14 million and so on -- about 15 million euros. The rock we threw away wasn't worth the scare, and my organization was on the lookout for all the wooding, erosion control work, and the staff, equipment, and time wasted on them. So, did we make a profit here, or did we hurt it? We've definitely done some damage. Why is that? Look, right now, after the legal arrangement was made, in accordance with the law, the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality was granted permission to fill approximately 63,176,970 cubic metres in the area of 3,882,705 square metres with 13 permits. Notice that in a year and a half or two, we collected $41,45,37 from the City Hall, even though there were less than the other one. This, especially in light of this price, isn't just about collecting the price. And we said unto the city: Organize this place, and check the things that are coming, and let there be no poisonous, harmful waste. They have transportation problems, so untie them; regular, without complaints from the people, make the delivery and management of the expenses according to your own law. We said, "This is the land of the waste." After all, we also had to plant a plant at least five feet [5 m] long, and for five years we had to take care of it. So there's a big difference. Anyway, as far as I'm concerned, I'm not going to explain it, so is there any legal or legal objection here? No. Well, come on, we've left him in law, economically speaking, and Aleppo there is in Ankara. So, in any way, is there a loss of state here, or is there a profit? Of course it's profitable. Well, then, the court has ruled that there was no irregularity in the matter. I'd like to stress that in particular. Also, dear friends, look, it's as if you've seen that at the date when the most wastes are made in the forest, there's one income in Istanbul of 127 million TL, and there's no forest revenues, and now we've got no collections, no tenders, no more than 180 million. I'd like to make that very clear. So in the forests, let me say this in particular, beings are increasing. We're writing epics. Look, as the forest areas in the world are dwindling, we are growing in the forest fields as well as as in the field of wood. I'm proud of my organization. Every member of the forest organization is hardworking, penitent, loyal, and I love them all. Honestly, I pray every day when I'm in my organization, all of them.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0178par0929	You've come to a good point, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0930	Other than that, look, over there... from where to where.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0178par0931	From where to where!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0932	Look, our wood fortune, where did it go, when there were 936 million cubic metres of wood in 1976 today...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0179par0933	Mr. Secretary, show me what the allies have earned, where the allies have come from.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0934	Yeah, hang in there for a minute. I'll answer all of them.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0180par0935	Come on, Mr. Secretary, let's go.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0179par0936	Show me their graphics, which of the tenders has become rich and rich.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0937	Our faces are white, I answer everything, I answer all the time, as long as my president gives me an hour or two.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0180par0939	Don't tell stories!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0940	Look, right now we have 1,480 million cubic meters...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0181par0941	They don't see it.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0942	They'd better have a look. That's it, so we have a 50 percent forest presence. Look outside of this -- what do you look at -- production of saplings: Sir, in the past, 75 million saplings a year were produced, while today we raised it to 470 million, that's the difference. That's the difference, seven floors. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, there's more, there's more, don't worry.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0182par0946	Answer the corruption, Mr. Secretary, don't tell a story.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0947	Look, the wooding... the precious brothers and sisters, we match the measurements of the forest in the past, and the former general managers have admitted it. In the same measurements, in total, in the past, treeworks, forest rehabilitation, the average year is only 75,000 hectares, while the average is only 75,000 hectares for many years, look, this has risen to 481,000 hectares last year, and we have risen to 3th in the world, thank God. There's more to this, if you'll excuse me. The income transferred to the forest villagers increased by threefold.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0182par0949	From where to where?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0950	You know where it came from.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0182par0951	We couldn't see the numbers, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0952	Here you are: the latest production of wood...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0182par0953	Let's see. What's up from what?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0954	...look where you're going.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0182par0955	From where to where, run, what are the numbers?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0956	You see? Look, look, read it.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0182par0957	Read it, read it.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0958	I guess you can read. Well, here we go: 13.5 million cubic meters from 7.3 million cubic meters. These are stationary with the reports.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0182par0960	I get it. The other one...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0961	Look, we're building honey forests right now. The walnut action plan, we're spreading almond fields all over Turkey because we import 65 percent of our walnuts, it's a shame for us. So, hopefully, we'll do it everywhere.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0183par0962	Explain the corruption, corruption. Get to the motion issues, get to the motion issues.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0963	Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. Please take a look at how many times the resources that have been transferred to the forest villagers have increased. The forest peasant is our villager, so let me point out.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0184par0965	You forgot the other one, Mr. Secretary, the other one... you left it closed there.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0966	Well... Look at the forest areas, and let me tell you, my precious deputies, where in God's name did 2/B come from, where did the invasion of these forests come from? Because the forest had no deed, the forest cadastro had not been completed. Now, I just handed over the deed to the forest director, the deed to the forest we bought from Tapu Kadastro, which is 16.3 million hectares, almost 80 percent. There will be no more conflict. And let me put it this way: we made this decision, and we said,
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0185par0969	Wait a minute, you're going to show it as a graph, and it's almost like a...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0970	From now on, I want a deed to every forest until 4:59 p.m., so that there will be no problems like 2/B in the forest. If we solved 2/B, we solved it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Other than that, our friends mentioned the fire, Mount Spil. Our friends work with sacrifice. Look, my valued deputies, here are the average burning forest areas in Mediterranean countries from 2003 to 2011. Even in those countries, which are smaller than us, there are 8 times as many of us as 10 times as there are of us, but thank God...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0186par0973	Minister, you will now say: "Time has narrowed down, and I have not responded to Mount Kira. Answer Mount Çiş.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0974	I'll also answer to Mount Play. Just give me a minute and I'll give you the document. Give me a minute.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0187par0975	There's another graph left, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0976	You're uncomfortable with this, aren't you? Look, I've told the forest peasant how much it's being transferred.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0187par0977	That's the other one, there's another one.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0978	Now, sir, the second thing is...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0188par0979	Answer Mount Play.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0187par0980	There's another one over there.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0981	Don't worry, I'll come to Mount Play. How many times have I answered you?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0188par0982	Your answers were irrelevant, not serious.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0173par0983	Wait a minute... wait a minute... you can't appreciate that it was Gayriciddi, and people appreciate that we... one of every two people put an AK PARTY on it.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0188par0984	Here's the answer to the question motions.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0189par0985	Pay up, people, answer up!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0188par0986	Did you or did you not see the pressure from the British government?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0190par0987	You can't appreciate it. People are going to bury you in the trunk anyway. He'll bury you in the trunk, you'll see.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0188par0989	Here's the answer to the question motions.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0191par0990	Pay up, people are watching you!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0190par0991	All right, now, and a brief report on the former location of the forest headquarters you call the Gazi compound: Sir, we did not pursue the Gazi compound. We have transferred only 21 per cent of this area to the Prime Minister's office at the price of 250 million dollars.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0192par0992	Did you cut down a tree?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0190par0993	I mean, let's turn it over to the private sector or something. But we've handed it over to the PM's office, from public to public. Our Director General of the Forest here, our former Director General of the Forest, our Congressman, knows.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0192par0994	Mr. Secretary, do you have a graph of the trees that have been cut down?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0190par0995	Right now, all the buildings there are unstable by the earthquake.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0193par0996	Minister, come here! Come here!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0190par0997	Construction in 1972. Even the biggest building, number 11. The building has been abandoned, abandoned, for three years now, because it's unsubstantiated. We will win a service building worthy of the Prime Minister, and we will build a building that will really suit our Forest General Directorate.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0194par0998	How many trees have been cut down?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0190par0999	Now, as for Mount Play, Article one: Minister or Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, none of our ministers will be affected by any country. We can't give in to any country's ambassadors, no one.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0195par1001	Tell the mayor, why are you telling me?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0190par1002	Wait a minute... you're telling me, mayor...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0195par1003	Give me your answer and answer the question motions.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0190par1004	Listen, listen... learn to listen, I listen to you, learn to listen.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0196par1005	Is the mayor on duty?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0190par1006	And so we're saying that there's something wrong with that, that we didn't give this license, that the Department of Mines gave it to us in 2004. He's on his way to the Ministry. The Ministry...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0197par1007	The mistakes are your bureaucracy, the victories are yours, that's right! What kind of government man is that?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0190par1008	Wait a minute, wait a minute... listen to me. What did you just say?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0198par1009	Why are you afraid of the British? Why are you afraid of the British?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0190par1010	We're not afraid of anyone. Thank God our heads are high and our foreheads are open. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0199par1012	Wow, wow!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0190par1013	We're not the kind of people who sit hand-to-hand in front of an IMF delegation like you. Our heads are high, thank God, and our heads are high.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0200par1015	Get over them, get over them!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0190par1016	Now, look, about that...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0200par1017	Who forgave British whiskey companies $500 million in debt?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0201par1018	Who forgave Citibank's debt? Paşa paşa, bulge...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0200par1019	You whiskey people!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0202par1020	Now, look, before I became Minister, he was licensed on May 3, 2006, but...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0201par1021	You lot are a bunch of rackets!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0200par1022	We drank, you stole.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0203par1023	Mr. Secretary, why did you have these books collected? Answer him.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0204par1024	Mr. President, I've got some teasing, and I want my right to speak.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0205par1025	Please... please...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0206par1026	Look, he hasn't answered, he hasn't shown up yet.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0204par1027	Now, let me tell you this: I didn't let you, I stopped you. I said to them, I called the firm... it's allowed, so here's your autograph. Two thousand years? Look, if you can't see from here, I'll send it to you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0207par1028	Whose signature is on it?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0204par1029	It's not mine.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0207par1030	You have your signature, your signature on the last warrant.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0204par1031	Sir, wait a minute, how's the last signature? It's a warrant before me, so you said it wrong.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0208par1032	Don't you have an autograph? You didn't let him?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0204par1033	I have an autograph, but how did I give it to you? (CHP and MHP rows) Excuse me for a minute.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0208par1034	I mean, force it...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0204par1035	One, I said...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0209par1036	Osman Pepe was dismissed because he didn't sign?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0204par1037	No, sir, there's no such thing. Here's his signature.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0210par1038	How did you do it, sir, by force?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0204par1039	His signature's right here, and I'll tell you this before...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0211par1040	I didn't give it to Osman Pepe, they wasted me, they wasted me because I didn't sign it. He says Osman Pepe.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0204par1041	Listen to me for a minute. You don't want to understand, I guess it doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0212par1042	You can't tell.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0213par1043	What did you do about Osman Pepe, Minister?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0214par1044	Tell me about this nephew of yours, your nephew.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0215par1045	The firm has been charged with...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0216par1047	Minister, I beg you, I never gave it to you. You, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0217par1048	Sir, allow me, allow me.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0218par1049	Come to your brother's son, come to your nephew.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0219par1050	He'll tell you about his brother's son, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0220par1051	The CED report doesn't have anything to do with waste water.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0221par1052	It's in the CED report. I'll show you the CED report, I've got it.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0220par1053	They added it later. You know that.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0222par1054	Mr. President, give Mr. Secretary time.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0220par1055	Where's the report now? He's in court. It's not over yet.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0223par1056	They went to the Muğla Administration Court with an appeal, where they were denied, and here's the court order.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0224par1057	He's not here yet.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0223par1058	I'll answer the rest when the time comes. Thank you. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, MHP and CHP APPLAUSE]
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0225par1060	Madam Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0226par1061	Mr. President, both of our motions for the geneorization and the motion for the geneorization have voiced very serious allegations, but Mr. Secretary's speech is over, and he can't respond to the allegations. That's under the motion for a gene. I hope there's a conscience on your fingers and you'll be dealt with.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0225par1062	Thank you. Members of parliament, talks on whether or not to issue a motion on the motion to ask for a gene on Forest and Water Affairs Minister Veysel Eroglu has been completed. Now, there's a request for an open vote on the motion to vote on the gene. Now, I'm going to identify the names of the lawmakers who are in demand. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We'd like to submit an open vote on the motion for the motion to ask about the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. A scholar's Light? Here. Oktay Vural? Here. Ali Halaman? Here. Ali Öz? Here. Oktay Ozturk? Here. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu? Here. Mehmet Erdogan? Here. Ali Longırmak? Here. Reşat Right? Here. Ahmet Duran Bulut? Here. Kemalettin Yilmaz? Here. Necati Özensoy? Here. S. What's not to be afraid of? Here. Zuhal Topman? Here. Sadir Durmaz? Here. You did, Yilmaz? Here. Sure Haluk Ayhan? Here. Congressmans, I'm going to take a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0227par1086	There's no minister, he still has to sit down.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0228par1087	He went to prepare his resignation.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0227par1088	Mr. President, the interview isn't over yet. Shouldn't the minister be sitting there?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0229par1089	Mr. Secretary, will you take your seat?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0230par1090	I passed so you wouldn't be affected by the vote.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0227par1091	Let's play by the rules, but if you're resigning, it's fine.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0231par1092	Sir, the motion for the geneorization has fallen, Mr. Secretary has resigned!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0232par1093	I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, we're going to vote on an electronic voting device based on the verdict. I'm giving you three minutes for an open vote, and I'm asking members who can't get into the system within this minute to ask the technical staff for help, and I'm asking the members who can't get into the system to deliver the ballots to the presidency within three minutes of the scheduled vote. I would also like to ask the ministers to vote in the three minutes scheduled for the vote again, when they will vote in whichever minister is acting, the color of the game, and the ballot bearing its signature with its name and name. I'm starting the voting process. [[The electronic device started voting.]] Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs Mr. Veysel Eroglu (11/15) will vote for Mr. Bululi Yıldırım, Minister of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications, Minister of Youth and Sports, Minister of the European Union Mr. Egemen Bagis, Minister of Economy Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, Minister of Culture and Tourism Mr. Ertugrul Günay.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0233par1101	If 276 is not found, the Minister falls.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0234par1103	Mr. President, let's get them read. There's no trust left. Let's check to see if the polls are here.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0233par1104	Sometimes it's a fraud.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0234par1105	It's not about you, Mr. President, don't get me wrong.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0235par1106	They can give me a compass for you and a compass for you! You never know.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0233par1107	There are saints here who voted while they were on the pilgrimage!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0236par1109	Members of parliament, (11/15) I present the open vote of the primary no.1 gene-referencing motion: ▪ Number of votes used: 307 [[x]] Özlem Yemisçi Muhammad Bilal Macit
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0237par1117	The ministers are insecure...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0238par1118	The Minister is out of trust.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0239par1119	Then he won't get the vote of confidence, under 276.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0237par1120	But you're better than Bulent Arinc Bey 1 vote.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit01spe0240par1121	According to this, it is not acceptable to bring up the motion for a gene question. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0240par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 24th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Since the number 2 (11/18) primary geneor motion has been withdrawn, we are starting talks on whether Ankara MP Zühal Topcu and 21 MPs, who have failed to manage the ministry, have had problems running new systems and projects, and have lowered the reputation of teaching profession, and will open a geneor on the opening of a primary geneor (11/20) about National Education Minister Omar Dinçer (11/20). Government? He's in position. I'm not having the motion re-readed because it was printed and distributed earlier and was read in the 16th Union of the General Assembly, dated 6/11/2012. Members of parliament, according to Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the Council of Ministers, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers will be promised in this meeting. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motionr, 20 minutes for the group and the government. Now, in order to speak, Mr. Ahmet Duran Bulklutta, Balıkesir MP. Mr. Cloud, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0241par0012	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the geneor of the Minister of National Education. I salute you and the great Turkish nation in person. Dear lawmakers, Mr. Dinçer was appointed minister of 880,000 teachers, 25 million students, and several employees on 6 July 2011. It hasn't been a year and a half since he's been in office, there's been incredible changes in the ministry, even employees have difficulty tracking these changes. Structural changes, changes in schools, institutions, regulations, assignments, promotions, transfers, apology groups, pre-school education, secondary schools, vocational schools, teaching, private schools, vocational schools, universities... Since he arrived at the Ministry of National Education, which is one of the two ministries, the head of this huge institution, he has moved his previous ministry's habits to this enormous ministry, rather than to do a study of the shortcomings of education in order to meet its needs. The Ministry of National Education brought along the Undersecretary at the Ministry of Labor, which has been in power for ten years, with bureaucrats who had served most of the majority of the Justice and Development Party at that time, three years, five years, ten years, and a very serious experience. What's the measure, the measure, the lack of education? Then, because he's changing what he's bringing, he's making about 700 people in the National Ministry of Education, an ATM officer in the Fivehouses. He's tried to run a national education with all his savings, all his experience, and the new staff he's brought in. Its guides are not experienced, its guides are not knowledgeable, and if he has no other opinion, then there's a huge flaw in them if he brings up ideas, ideas, plans that are being cooked in the kitchen there. No, if at Oslo meetings, we'll disband the Ministry of National Education to the representative of the current MIT Undersecretary Hakan Fidan. The terrorists there, we'll leave it to the governors in the provinces, and we'll get the municipalities to do it in a certain amount of time. I come here as the Prime Minister's special representative, and I can't help but wonder if those words are in order to put his problems in an unresolved position, in order to serve this purpose. In the SNSM, which has been so popular in Turkey and has so far had a lot of respect for its reputation, the KPSS exams, almost every test he does, the questions are being played, the questions are being asked, he goes from this classroom to these. He is now sadly shaken by people's confidence in the Ministry. However, the Minister does not use the choice to look after the officers there, to correct the wrong, to depose the wrong, to bring the better, the right one. As the Prime Minister says, I won't make him eat Hakan Fidan. As the Prime Minister says, he's making an effort not to make these officers eat the people he's brought into office. Schooling in Turkey has fallen far behind before school. In many countries of Europe, when Mr. Dinçer was 100 per cent, in the prime period before him, in 71 cities, pre-school education was launched, targeted with 81, while now, because of necessity, students do not go to these schools because they are not mandatory. The system, which is brought in 4+4+4, is supposed to be 12+1, which is mandatory for 12 years, but everywhere in the world, an understanding that neglects that is 60 months, 60 months, and 70 months... is conflicted between itself. In the same class, which led to the doctor's reports, but was one or one and a half years apart from the same class, with a five-and-a-half-year-old boy in his development age, the boy in the first grade, who was in the eighth grade, who had to study in the same class, because he had to study double-education, he had to get out of that play-age boy's house at 6:30 in the morning, and he brought it to the point where he had to go to school at 1900 to the end of school, and how to bring his parents to school, how to take their kids to school, how to take them to school, and how to take them to a chaotic environment, Mr. Minister, knowingly, when the services got mixed up, he had to a chaos, he had to resist the failure of the system. The classrooms aren't enough, three kids sitting in the same row. Do you think the six-year-old, five-year-old, can sit in line for 40 minutes because it's mandatory training? Can you imagine how a child who's about to take a piss like kindergarten, who's trained as a homeroom teacher, would be able to compensate for that? That's where education comes from in Turkey, the mindset that is unaware of education. Teachers are down, teachers are desperate. A teacher just sent a message saying that in his message, the MPs said: "Mr. Hodja, we've been through the money." Please, bring back the teacher's dignity, take precautions for that. Be our language, be our heart. I don't want teaching in such a category of inability and cheapness. We're broken, we're hurt. It's the cry of a lady teacher. People don't trust education, they don't trust exams. A young man says: "My teacher, I took the police test." They gave 100 points to an open school graduate who got 60 points, made him a cop. My sports and interview went well, but they scored 59 points. In short, they've done a hell of a lot of pulling. If you don't defend our rights today, when will you? In KPS, questions are stolen, we can't be appointed; in police work, we can't win; we go to the military, and they'll say, "You're a Muslim." Now, shouldn't we ask, who are we in this country? Teacher, do they want to get depressed and get people killed? Are we too much of a coward to say everything without fear? How are we going to make a life? Let's ask ourselves. Let all dreams be shattered, let all the questions be played by KPS. Take the exams, hope for all exams, and pull some strings. What kind of Muslim is that? Let's ask him. Didn't our Lord say that the right to a servant was the greatest sin? I'm going crazy now, shame on you. If you can't defend our rights, then who can defend our rights? I'm asking. A young man named Eren Cross wrote me a letter. If a citizen's confidence in the state, like a test, like a college exam, doesn't have the confidence in exams like KPSS, it's amazing in the education system. The system is full of distortions, but the Ministry doesn't even consult its own staff, not even scientists. The Minister is very tired. I advise the Minister to rest. Look what's on the New Year's Eve program at their own Yalova Teacher's House. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With Oriental Özlem, Doğan and Shahan, Aylin had a Christmas program to perform with. That's where they bring the teachers' homes, play, have fun because...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0242par0029	I think it's on Fridays, too.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0241par0030	This ministry says there is a need for healthy governance, and I salute the grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0243par0032	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. First speaker on behalf of the groups, Mr. Zuhal Topcu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Ankara MP. Mr. Topcu, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0244par0036	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Movement regarding the motion of the national education minister of the National Movement Party, Mr. Omar Dinçer. I salute you all. Yes, in addition to the speech of Mr. Ahmet Duran Bey of the National Movement Party, why did we give you this loan in detail, especially with the statements we made after him? The Minister of National Education reassigned him as group president -- a year before or within a year -- to about 22 of the people he appointed -- to be the head of the group, and reassigned over 10 of them from the group. Now, he's reassigning and reassigning the people he's assigned in a year, sharing certain things, but reassigning them without any justification. We know that education is a long-term event, and you don't get the results right away. As the Ministry's budget was being discussed, there was talk of money in particular, corruption at work. You invest in people in national education -- much more important than that -- and you don't get paid for your investment in people. Now, this is where we want to explore a system where you don't get paid. There are so many headlines that we've collected them under a few headlines. Especially recently, we've had a list of classrooms that have been busy with our agenda. The next thing you know, Mr. Prime Minister, he's making a statement that the classrooms will be closed; the Minister of National Education doesn't know or the National Education Commission doesn't know, the executives don't know. Then there's a statement from National Education, but it's not known why it's closed, and three or four months later, the announcement comes. Yesterday, Mr. Minister made another statement in Istanbul saying that the Dershanes will be closed. Now, there's a big cake in our country right now about the classrooms. According to official figures, there are almost 70,000 personnel here, but according to unofficial figures, it's estimated to be around 150,000. And when you include 1,200,000 students, you can see how big this cake is. But the classrooms will be closed. Before you say, I wonder how these classrooms came out, why they came out of the need, how they came out of the need, what they needed to be considered. If these are incontrovertible, when you close tomorrow, private lessons and sub-stairs will be implemented. Because democracy never runs out. If you don't get to the source of the problem, you can't solve the problem, and people across the street are constantly creating alternatives. We also have to state that when you consider the equality of opportunity, the classrooms take on important responsibilities. There's another subject in parallel with the classrooms, open high schools. Open schools are now teaching. Now, we ask the Minister: how many students have passed from Anadolu and science high schools to open high schools so far? Doesn't that bother you? You've been working as a detective to keep seniors from getting reports and continuing their studies, and you've brought up criminal charges, but you haven't considered taking any precautions in the transition of these kids to open high schools. Right now, the kids don't need reports anymore, so they're in open high schools, so they're free to go to the classrooms. In your statement yesterday, the classrooms will be shut down once and for all, and in response, we're developing a new system that has ruined the education of developing systems for ten years. Likewise, this Minister plays a catalyst for developing this system. We're asking now if that's why these kids are going to open schools, because they're getting better education there. The problem is so much that, once we look at it, we're going to say again, the norm staff and change of field are now a major problem. We get so many messages or phone calls from all of our congressman friends on social media, that people, especially our teachers, our teachers, their problems are too big, their demands are too high. Now, these demands must be met. If there is a problem, if the problem is spoken aloud, it must be resolved. Now we're looking at it, and we're saying that there's no way we're ever going to be able to keep up with the change that the Ministry has made. Aren't there any rules in the system of a ministry? When will the teacher be appointed? Don't they have periods? How many teachers are appointed? What major is he assigned to? What's the need analysis of the system? When are they supposed to appoint a partner or assign an apology? We're looking at a statement, it's going to be made, it's not going to be appointed, it's going to be like this, but the next morning, we wake up in the morning, and it turns out that this decision has been changed and the decision has been made. Like national education, does a ministry that serves people and raises people change policy every day? It's especially pathetic when a class teacher is trapped in it. They were used as jokers; 15 or 20 years of homeroom teachers, replaced by literature teachers, math teachers, English, mentally disabled teachers. Why? For the transfer. Is this your career plan? What is this injustice? We'd like to report him. In particular, Mr. Secretary, sitting in the Ministry, it's not the work of decisions that are practically impossible to make; it's the education work with educators, we want your attention. As for violence, especially in recent days, we can see that the violence against teachers has been increasing, and the silence of the Ministry has caused the educators a great deal of sadness. Teachers are stabbed and beaten in the classroom, in the street, in front of students. Not a day goes by without an attack on an educator. The fact that no measures have been taken against such attacks or the reaction has not been exposed has brought this profession to light. I assure you that this share that you have given to educators will be constantly remembered as AKP Power and Minister. The problem is so much that I want to go over all the issues briefly. In particular, all your charisma in vocational education is related to increasing the number of students attending this education. However, in 2012, at the YGS, the Nationals of Higher Education, the first step exam, the percentage of students crossing the threshold from vocational schools is 33 percent. This is a really bad painting. The level you like about these students is just a two-year pre-license education level, and we want to get your attention. In vocational education, please, you need to see the problems of technical teachers who have given the necessary importance and have graduated in this field. When you come to the Anadolu high schools to appoint teachers, you constantly change regulations and last time you made a decision a week ago. Every appointment you make is violated by the courts. Then, as if it wasn't enough, you took another test and took 80 liras of teachers and put them to the test. At the end of the exam, you failed to reassign the successful, kept them waiting. And a week ago, you took out a new assignment manual. I assure you that this incorrect appointment manual will be corrupted by the courts again, and you will continue training by assigning them to the Anatolian upper secondary schools, and by the end of 2012-2013, you will solve the problem by making all the upper secondary schools a teacher's high school, and the sufferings of teachers will be a profit to them. Now, when it comes to quality -- I don't know where -- especially in the ten-year period of power, four ministers have always been the subject of quality when they first arrived. They've all, of course, put PISA and OECD values and numbers on their agendas, but they never mentioned those numbers after that. Omar Dinçer did the same thing, but in the business sense that Mr. Omar Dinçer tried to implement in the business sense, he shot himself like a boomerang because his policies have no sustainable quality, no vision that they've developed. We've stopped expecting quality from you, you've ruined a generation in ten years, so please, clean up. As we just said, the value of education is never something to buy, let's just say, and the results are not good. When we consider the results of the exam, the successes of the students based on their majors, we face a grave picture. When we came in on the electives -- especially the main point of 4+4+4, you gave electives as the punchline -- here, especially in his speech yesterday and in his previous speech, he promised a structure that would help students to have competitiveness internationally, and that each student would be guided by elective lessons according to his own abilities and skills. Now we want to ask them and say that you've predicted about 21 electives under the title, and 15 of which were chosen by students. This is to be chosen by students -- I'm giving it to you in a nail -- I draw your attention. The introduction of elective courses without creating the necessary infrastructure has only been a configuration of the practice of seeing friends in shopping. This foot, given as the most important source of your project, has become a problem that you can't get out of, and we'd like to give you some examples. Now, who attends these classes? We're asking if people outside the field, who are irrelevant, who are not pedagogic, who are not even a graduate even attend these classes. This app of yours makes your sense of electives clearer. In this year and in the coming years, the teacher's problems on this subject will seriously give you a headache, because from next year, these will come up with a geometric increase in the need for elective lessons with a geometric increase. She's still a science teacher in community culture class, so we're giving her that. Class teacher and math teacher in sports and physical activities. The goal of these courses was to change the ability to learn by skill and flexibility, but again, to fill these lessons, you're doing again, classic, every year. We're interested in how and with whom you've met the demand of the most important constituents that we've seen and that students will be effective in the child's conscientious and spiritual development, and that we have been able to contribute to these courses. Doesn't it bother your conscience that people who don't have driver's licenses give them such important lessons? Please find out who attends these classes. We come to the managers, and we see it as a separate bleeding wound. Again, like 15 years ago, he was separated from elementary school, secondary school and high school. We supported it, it needs to be a gradual education, it needs to be 12 years, but we believe there must be a difference between periods, so let's just say that. In some ways, we supported the 4-4-4, but in some ways we did not. In June and July of this year, schools and transformation and norm upgrades were tried. We see that even schools with normal education used to go to bilateral education, and even in some schools outside of private secondary schools, elementary schools and secondary schools, the nooners, the middle schools became morningers. The morning groups, as our friend just mentioned, started at 7:00, until 7:30 p.m. We'll let you know what time these kids have to wake up so they can get to these classes. The current managers and vice principals began to run both institutions, which were divided by the new system, so a principal became principal of both elementary school and secondary school, and at the same time, he assumed the responsibility. It became so tragic that the educators used their creativity to create new phrases. I'd like to share these with you. The principals now say: "You give one principal two seals, one building two signs, one seat two watermelons." You give one principal both the principal and the principal of the secondary school. At the same time, the Administrator's Admissions and Replacement Regulations do not comply with the new system. This needs to be changed in a more fair way and based on merit. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of the responsibility you've put on the administrators to run the schools? You've been looking for a scapegoat to blame, and you've found these, I'll tell you that. There's no problem with the schools' resources, there's a management problem that can't manage the source, you said. You made such an unfortunate statement. Mr. Secretary, do you know your budget for schools? You don't seem to know. Do you realize what kind of expenses schools have? The directors you accuse and even punish do all they can to satisfy the needs of the schools and provide the best service to their students. That's why they organize the bake sale, bring theaters, organize concerts. Do you know why they're doing this? To make money for the school. Because the contribution of national education or the contribution of the state is very little. And again, you asked them for their budgets, because you didn't know where and how the numbers were obtained, and then you said, "There's no problem with resources, there's no problem with management." Did you know how to provide broken glass, cleaning services, various materials, security services or, you know, security managers? The subject of exams makes mistakes. The lack of questions, the theft of questions, both discredited state institutions and extinguished the hopes of young people who would come to Turkey. Again, when we came to teachers' problems, you described teachers as people who only thought about their appointments and their salaries and accused them of not making a proposal for their own fields. And you have an RD unit. In general, he identified 300 problem areas, which were brought to you by such a broad-mouthed electrocution that perhaps five or six problems were brought to you, and you began to see it as a rose. You said the FATIH Project, you brought it with drums and zurna, but you still couldn't make a tender, and you offended the teachers of computer and teaching technologies that should have been the leading role in this. We're getting to the most important thing. You've brought up national values, you've gone into the effort to trivialize nationals, the nationals, the national days. You've been playing on holidays. National and spiritual values are the values that feed the spirit, which must be given within the educational system. They're the basic dynamics of culture, and they need to be given by pedagogically formalized teachers again, but you've gone into the effort to make them meaningless and insignificant. Today, we see children and young people throwing stones at the police. We find that most school-age children are often used in demonstrations aimed at supporting terrorists and burning schools that aim to damage public property. The governor of the state talks about a thousand children in the hands of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). In less than a year of juvenile guilt, crime has reached almost 100 per cent. We see the number of cases brought to trial in sexual crimes has increased by 300 percent in particular in the last year. We ask the Minister, who will we entrust this country to tomorrow? We will find no one to take care of this nation, these values, this country, is your conscience clear? Who should take care of these kids? You specifically told parents who didn't register six or seventy-two months in the application of 4+4+4. You said, and your logic was to solve problems with punishment, but how do the system work with that logic? These children are the children of this country. How is that irresponsible? How can you abandon these children and entrust them to terror? When you're trying to come up with a solution, your solutions produce new problems. You compared the teachers waiting for the appointment to become pigeons waiting for bait in the mosque yard, accusing school administrators of incompetence... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and there are many other problems, but as you can see, time is not enough. So, members of lawmakers, we're calling all the MPs who are here, so please, come and say yes, and you can both get rid of this community and get rid of it. Please, Mr. Secretary, say yes, don't hesitate! Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0245par0078	We'll talk about the rest in the next question.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0246par0079	Mr. Topcu, thank you. Second speaker for the groups, Yalova MP for the Republican People's Party Group, Deputy Group Chairman Muharrem İnce. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0247par0083	Thank you. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Education is a serious business, it's serious, but you can't take that seriously, of course, with a sour face. Mr. Secretary may have known some circles before, but we've known Mr. Minister since the Prime Minister's office and the Deputy Prime Minister's office. Now, a person is what a Wednesday is, and that's what a Wednesday is. 19-21 May 1995. There's a Sivas speech from the Minister, the secularism is over, the republic is over, the nation state is over, the republic has lost its principle and its function; it says today is the time when local cultures stand out. Now, a person who says that is the number one officer of the Republic of Turkey, the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister. When he is reminded of these words, he says: "I stand by my words. " And now he runs the Ministry of National Education in accordance with those words. We're still on Wednesday. The minister is writing a book in 1995, and the title of the book is: The Executive Administration takes away his position as a professor on 21/10/2005. At 7/11/2005, Mr. Dinçer objects, and when the objection is not accepted, the Minister appeals to the judiciary in 2008. The judiciary approves the decision of the CEC. Then, at 2/5/2009, Mr. Minister becomes Minister of Labor, and at 27/7/2009 he appoints his current Undersecretary, Emin Harmless. Three months later, Emin becomes a harmless member of the NGO. After becoming a member of the YÖKK, Emin Harmless is the first to bring up the petition that Mr. Dinçer gave five years ago.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0248par0089	Well, well, well, well!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0247par0090	On 23/12/2010, the rights of Omar Dinçer have been restored by the NGO. I mean, which DMV? No matter what he does, the SEC, which is called the YÖK, which he appointed the officer under him as chief. My dear friends, a court order can only be eliminated by a court order. Can a court order be eliminated by an administrative decision? I'm asking the lawyers. Then, Mr. Secretary -- we're back on Wednesday -- we know him when he phoned the prosecutor on the affair of Yücel Love at the University of the Hundred Years. Then we got to know the family members, the Minister's brother. His brother, an ordinary doctor at the Ministry of Health, is assigned to the Ministry's field coordinator for a World Bank-backed project. That's how we knew your brother. So Mr. Minister has anti- secularism on Wednesday, anti-Republic, anti-Ataturk, interference in the judiciary, using his office's resources for himself and his environment. Now it's Thursday. The Minister's first act is by the decree of Act 652. With this decree, the organization changes its structure altogether, Mr. Secretary, and with this decree the powers of the Ministry of National Education are being changed. Look what's been changed: Ataturk principle and commitment to his revolutions. Raising individuals who love their family, their country, their nation. Raising individuals who know the basic principles of the Republic of Turkey. To raise individuals who know their duty and responsibilities to the Republic of Turkey and make them behave. He's changing them, Minister. So he says that these are no longer among the duties of the Ministry of National Education. He says we have no such duty, no loyalty to his family, his country, his people. He says he will not raise individuals who know the basic principles of the Republic of Turkey. Instead, he says raising people who fit the international and domestic business world is between the duties of national education. So the market wants to raise the man. He doesn't want to raise citizens. He doesn't want to raise a citizen with a sense of history, a national consciousness, he wants to raise a market man. You can do that in college, I have no objection to that. In basic education, it is only possible to do so in colonial countries. That understanding can only be done by collected heads. When my dear friends asked me, "Why did you take them out?," the minister said, "Ideologically, we took them out of him." So he's a minister who's afraid of the ideology of loving his country, his people. Under this rule of law, the senior executives were relieved of their duties, increased their salaries, so the raise in salary was the end of the job. How many are they? 620 people retreated to a concentration camp. Who are these officers? The bureaucrats of the AKP era. People's money was wasted because I wouldn't even work with their friends and I'd bring their best friends. His ATM officer was paid, but he didn't find teachers who weren't appointed. Mr. Secretary, what kind of business professor are you? If you did that in the private sector, they'd kick you out. Isn't efficient use of resources the business professor's first job? In this rule of law, 16° of the National Education Directors who were relieved of duty were reassigned, 65 responsibilities were appointed. On 21/11/2011, the Minister published a generalisation. According to its generality, it is the management of the administration with those who carry the conditions of appointment. It says, "When you appoint a trustee, he must carry the terms of those who come to you. " Mr. Secretary, eight of your 65 appointments are not in line with your own bloc. Celalettin Ekinci, İsmail Çetin, Pervin Töre, Lütfiye Deneri, Yakup Sarı, Mustafa Altınsoy, Coşkun Esen, these are district education directors, none of which are in line with your own general order. Does a business professor hire a person who is unfit for the job, or does he not base on merit, and why does he base his loyalty? Mr. Secretary, if you were the general manager of a factory, someone who had no job experience, someone who didn't, could you take them to that factory? Congressmans, the basis of education is the teacher. A minister who does not glorify the teacher, who is not sensitive to the teacher's problems, who does not empathize with his teacher cannot succeed. Let's take a look at Omar Dinçer's words against the teachers, his words that exclude them, hurt them, hurt them: they take three months off. For God's sake, remove whoever told you this immediately. It's not the teachers who vacation for three months, Mr. Secretary, it's the students. Who gave you this information?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0249par0110	They'll be teachers in the future.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0247par0111	Two: they drink five teas in Paris. Three: Every day they make a day of gold, underpants, pajamas. The minister's blunders are not limited to teachers, but also to miners, they died well. He told the unregistered teachers the worst. Look, I repeat: I like to think of those who want to be teachers as pigeons waiting in front of Eminönu Mosque. They're waiting for someone to bait them. God knows my children didn't become officers. Mr. Secretary, you're quite right.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0250par0114	What about the kid?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0247par0115	Your kids didn't become officers, but they got a good job in Turkish Airlines. Did they enter with KPSS? I don't think so.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0251par0116	There's no end to slander, you can say it all you want.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0247par0117	If you pull that boy's payroll, put it in the middle, and the teachers see it, okay? If only they could see him.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0252par0119	Well, well, well, well!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0251par0120	I'll put it in now, you'll see.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0247par0121	Mr. Secretary, you have reduced the apology group to two-to-one under the law. You said, "We will not compromise in any way." First you said 156,000, then you found out that it was 22 thousand! I wrote you a letter, you didn't even answer my letter. It's no one's father's farm. The national will, the democracy, the law, the accounting, the right of the opposition? Tell your bureaucrats to answer my letters, my writings. Mr. Secretary, despite the constitutional right to protect the family, you said you wouldn't let them use it. Then, these people reached out to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister said, "Your solution." You've done this with a generalization when it should have been with the law. What kind of management is that, Mr. Secretary? You continued to make discrepancy statements. The Ministry of National Education can only be asked: If you have a problem, do not go to the Minister, he will not solve it; you will either wait for the election or you will reach the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister took care of the wife's transfer, so he figured it out. The choice has solved the recruitment of contract teachers. The error of the transfer of the SBS (SBS) to 3 · Global Voices was solved when a student in Batman told the Prime Minister. The money collected from the parents in the schools was resolved by the Prime Minister's orders. The first student pardon was on the Prime Minister's orders. Don't let anyone from the Ministry of National Education expect to solve any more problems. My dear friends, let's come up with 4+4+4, which is 4+dert+dert+dert. Our training date is unfortunately a puzzle history. He's reforming, he's reforming! The reason for bringing an application is reform, and the reason for eliminating the application is reform. Reform in bringing it in, reform in lifting it. You want samples? Look, I'll tell you, the SBS will be lifted next year. Look at the newspapers-- LGS, SBS, reformed. SBS has been raised to 3, its name has been reformed. SBS has been reduced to 1. It's reformed. The SBS is being lifted, and this is reform. In 1983, we started 60 - month - old children, which continued until 1986. We've recorded 442,722 students. The reason for that day is the same as today. That's what modern countries do, children eat well, they learn quickly, so this must be done for them. In 1983, the same is said today. So why did we give up in 1986, and no one talks about it? My dear friends, in 1986, the report states: "The classes are inadequate, the equipment and assistant staff are understaffed, and the teachers are not present. These are the same reasons today. My dear friends, there is a very interesting reason for failure between 1983 and 1986, which says: "The poor children have been less successful. " The poor children have been less successful. In those days, in 83, 70 percent of parents, teachers were against it, and today, the only difference is that those who opposed it were not called Ergenekoncu, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). If you oppose it today, you will be branded Ergenekoncu, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). You said, "We will not victimize teachers." You said, "The student is the victim, the parent is the victim, the teacher is the victim, everyone is the one who wins." Look, it's very interesting that this capital is winning. The number of interns in the workplace could not exceed 10 percent, so if 300 people were working, there would be 30 interns. You've moved on, so you've led the way to cheap labor, so you've taken a stand for capital. You helped poor poor children create a cheap labor force in those enterprises, called the intern. Again, you've cleared the way for the capital by taking the tablets you're handing out to them outside the public tender scope. Turkey talks about hunger strikes, but 36 teachers who commit suicide because they can't be appointed don't talk. Mr. Secretary, you have destroyed the Board of Education, the most important institution in the Republic of Turkey. Again, you're the first minister in history to make Ottomans a foreign language, Mr. Secretary. You're the first Minister of National Education to make up rhymes about him. You know what the teachers are saying: a teacher told a teacher, let's ask for a transfer together so that Omar Dinçer can block it for what reason. A teacher told a teacher, "Let's ask for a transfer together, let's see how Omar Dinçer can block it with one of the most common rhymes among teachers." Mr. Secretary, I'm warning your bureaucrats in front of you that your answers to my motions are lies, bullshit, funny, dirty. You're giving false and false information. You call the documents I have nothing. I have those documents, I'll embarrass you. I'll keep them waiting, one by one, and I'll tell them from this stand when the time comes. For example -- tell your bureaucrats to look into it -- I have the document on Istanbul High School, and I will reveal it when the time comes. I'm only asking you now because I want it to go into government records. Government management is a serious business. Again, today, here, Mr. Hussein Steel and Mr. Blessing Head. I don't think they're giving you a vote of confidence.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0253par0135	Or they got involved.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0247par0136	Another issue is: What have you solved in your ten years of power? Has the only problem been solved in ten years? See, the basic problems of education are obvious. One of them is qualified education. Buying computers, buying tablets is not a problem of education, you print it, you get the money in a day. The important thing is to improve the quality of education. Did you go a mile on this? What's our status on the PISA exams? Two: where are we in the crowded classrooms? The unregistered teachers are waiting for you. How's the access to the school? How's the equal opportunity? Structural problems are all stopped. Congressmans, again, we've heard that teachers have been violent to students, but in recent years, the student's violence to the teacher with the AKP ruling authority has reached a terrible extent. Service drivers beating the teacher, the student stabbing the teacher in the heart, the father and son breaking the teacher's arm, beating the teacher of high school students. This is all getting so much more. Another issue is that teachers who are trying to protect their professional rights -- students are being violent, but the state itself has begun to use violence. You attacked them with pepper spray, pressure water, baton. Mr. Secretary, the head that burned down the school because it is not being taught in the native language is not being treated. The head that burned down the hospital is the same as the head that burned down the hospital. This is not a right head, it is not the head of the 21st century, it is not the logic of 2012. None of the basic problems of education in your power have been solved. You can't get anywhere by shutting down people who don't take the teacher, who don't put the teacher in focus, who don't solve the problems of the teacher, who block the business peace, who destroy the working conditions, who make the dishonest people principal of teachers, who make them chiefs, who make them governors, who don't have the talent, who don't have the ability to do it because of us, by simply bringing out their loyalty. You can recruit, you can make them general managers, but you can sell the future of the country, destroy the future. A person should not be measured by being an expert in the Ministry of National Education, by being a manager, by being an executive, by being a leftist leftist from the CHP, by being a religious teacher, by being a physics teacher, by being a good manager or not. Unfortunately, you didn't do any of that. Unfortunately, we have to get our most valued children educated in these schools, and as a teacher, I'm saying -- in plain terms -- protect your children from the Ministry of National Education. Thank you all. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0254par0145	Thank you, Mr. Slim. Third speaker to the group, Bitlis MP Husamettin Zenderlioğlu on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Mr. Zenderlioğlu, please.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0255par0149	Mr. President, I have made a promise on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group about its geneor. On this occasion, I salute you all. As it is known, today is the 64th day, the coming stage is critical. The risk of death is increasing by the hour, when the government ignores the deaths. A massive hunger strike for support is under way; 10,000 inside, 10,000 outside. You can't turn your back on these screams. In our analysis of the prisons, we've found that they're suffering from bleeding, weight loss, low blood pressure, lack of fluids. This scream, all humans, calling themselves democrats, human beings... our call is human and conscientious. Let's solve this problem together. Tomorrow may be too late, so let's put our hands together, and we'll solve this problem. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, when we look at Turkey's educational report card, we can't say that it's very pleasant. The education system wasn't working so well anyway, it's also clear that there's been a complete disturbance with 4+4+4. Apart from pre-school education, primary school, secondary school, high school education were mandatory. However, the open teaching system for upper secondary schools in the 3rd level has already failed the speech of education for 12 years. The people of Turkey around the world ranked the 32st in their reading skills, the 84th in inequality, and the 77th in their gender inequality. In our country, 4.87 per cent are still illiterate; I consider it a great shame in this day and age. Besides, the schooling issue is still not fully resolved. In the last decade, when the AKP was in power, four times lower in the education budget than in investments, the poor people's population had to pay their children's education costs, while more of them had to be responsible for their family, and the higher the amount of education they had spent on the public's pockets as the use of resources in the field of education dropped. Although the Ministry of National Education has said that the mandatory education has been reduced to 12 years in the 4+4+4 arrangement. In fact, the mandatory education has been reduced to 4 years, Minister. On the one hand, knitting claims that education is mandatory for 12 years, but on the other hand, isn't it a big contradiction that high school education is out of bounds? The goal here is that with the opening of vocational secondary schools, the exploitation of child labor will emerge. This is nothing but signs that increase exploitation. This education system is legalized after four years by opening the way for poor families to be daughters-in-laws. Here, you can all see the look here. In the second four-year period, there is a direct withdrawal of the labour force market as a result of practices such as direction, apprentice and internship. Some elective classes will be mandatory, and students who do not choose them are already excluded. The national education budget appears to have increased by 20 per cent compared to the previous year. We care about this increase. With that care, we're making it very clear that it's not enough. The main reason for this increase is that the structural transformation in education, known as 4+4+4, is a huge burden on the national education budget. In addition, 70 per cent of the budget is seen to be spent on staff costs, 11 per cent on social security state premiums. In the education budget, there is only 8 per cent of the cost of goods and services that should be considered. In education, commercialisation and privatisation practices have been carried out in a planned way over the past decade. Different practices are also implemented, such as making management agreements with non-governmental companies that provide educational services, encouraging the public to support education financially. Starting in 2003, the training was established on the basis of contracting, paying, subcontractors and 4/C applications based on parts and insecurity. Instead of being transferred to public schools -- each one of which is also used for the support of private schools, which are also a business enterprise, while the government has enough staff teachers to appoint enough schools, enough classrooms and schools. Another important runt project of AKP Power is undoubtedly the FATIH Project. It is estimated that nearly 100 billion euros will be provided from the smart boards, tablets, contented software to the Internet, as well as the public tender agency (KİK) will be disabled. It is clear that a student in Hakkari would not have the same opportunities as a student in Istanbul and a student in a private school who watched only from a tablet computer, just as it is seen here. See, every time our Minister takes a word, he uses more market-related concepts than concepts on education. With these concepts related to the market, the quality of education has been reduced to the harsh competition conditions of the market. In the 2012 budget talks, it is the clearest indication of how much market-related the picture is, as the National Minister of Education described its greatest purpose as preparing students for international competition. Teaching is a prestigious profession with an enlightened identity that requires special expertise. From village institutes until today, these teachers were trained in different institutions, but unfortunately today, most of the people who were trained in all schools want to become teachers because they can't find a job, or they try to do it with an appointment after they find someone and put someone in the middle. But from the 1980s to today, teachers are being poorened on the basis of neoliberal economic policies, and financial and autonomy rights are being taken from them one by one. By corrosing their intellectual identity, the teaching profession is quickly tried to discredit itself. During the AKP, we see that these efforts have become more concentrated, and the teaching profession has been disqualified. Teacher's salaries have been reduced below the hunger line, additional tuition fees have been charged. Tens of thousands of teachers have been victimised, thousands of teachers' family integrity has been corrupted by the state of domestic, illegal, and apology situation, the rights to change places. Here, I'd like to ask if our Minister can see how sacred your family is. Hundreds of thousands of non-assigned teachers have been expanded to pay low wages, work insecurity, and the practice of paying teachers under flexible employment conditions. Teachers' right to organize is blocked. The pressure has been put on them to become allies. Despite all this, the organised teachers have tried to be intimidated by police clubs, gas, and operations. Today 30 teachers of Educ-Sen are under arrest. We, as BDP, will continue to say that the teaching profession has been discredited by AKP policies and the National Education Minister's remarks, that teachers' rights have one by one been disparaged, that they have been transformed into neoliberal policies and teaching professions, and that we will continue to support the struggle that teachers have raised. We will always strive to create a scientific, democratic-qualified education and support the struggle of all educational workers for a life where they can live humanly and integrate with their professions. Children who have lost their lives because of the state's -- or intentional -- attitude: The first indicator of education in a country is how important human life is in that country. The right of life is sacred and cannot be interfered with by any power, including the state, for no reason. On December 27, 2011, 35 of our civil citizens, including children, were bombed and killed in Şırnak Uludere, near the village of Roboski, as a result of intelligence obtained from Israeli-made Heron. Of the 35 civilians, 19 were children. It is not only the children who have lost their lives because of the state's -- or intentional -- who have lost their lives in the Uludere massacre; over the past six years, 59 children, including Ceylan Önkol, Uğur Kaymaz, have lost their lives, 25 of whom are in the prime school year. In the name of the nation's state, one state, one flag, history, language, almost all of the local wealth has been eliminated or discredited. Mr. President, good lawmakers, the mother tongue is, in fact, the right of every human being. Language is actually a means of communication. Every language is the carrier of the history of the language-speaking society, of its culture. It's important to know more than one language. For each individual, for every human, the mother tongue is very important. The native language is an integral part of one's identity, emotion, mental development, where one begins to learn in the process of communicating with the world. When we do not learn the second language, we may not lack anything, but when we lose our native language, the emotional and mental integrity of our personality and identity remains incomplete. Language wealth strengthens those communities. The language is a cultural heritage that unites a people, leads to common goals, socially reproduces itself, and is the source of the wealth of that community. It's the language that determines the identity of a society, its culture. It's a cultural monument to the people, no matter what language they speak. The use of language, the protection of that society, makes its own unique features. Sadly, today thousands of languages have been destroyed, and many languages face the danger of extinction. Prohibition of the mother tongue is the most severe... without a doubt, banning education in the native language, because the goal here is: you don't talk to the world, you don't develop relationships. The natural right to be human is to express yourself freely in its native language. So far, there are nearly 6,000 languages spoken in the world. All these languages are spoken in 200 countries. This shows that it should be more multilingual, not monolingual. Hundreds of languages are spoken in some countries. There are 850 languages in New Guinea, 427 in Nigeria, 270 in Cameroon, 380 in India, and 670 in Indonesia, where our Prime Minister visited yesterday. These policies... they used to say, "Here, language brings division." There is no such thing. These policies... one must use one language as an identity language and the other as a common language of agreement. Two languages have a positive effect on mental and linguistic development. The one language, one nation ideology that denies the existence of different languages, must now be abandoned. The barriers to languages must be removed, social integration must be achieved, education policies must be created in many languages. In some countries, it is a legal and natural right to study with the second language as well as the dominant language. The main language issue has created such an important area for power that the rigid stance on mother languages that are used outside of Turkish has led to even the path of punishment in the face of the slightest demand that education should be included in the main language. Education-Sen, which is part of the Education Charter of Sen, advocates a democratic, secular, scientific, and neutral education of all members of the community, in its native language, free use in equality. He is in danger of being shut down because of his statement. Turkey's demands for learning the native language and education in the native language by its sovereigns are perceived as a security issue, a question of division and in search of how appropriate arrangements can be made. As a result, other languages such as Syrianic, especially Kurdish, have been exposed to denial and assimilation policies in Turkey. More than half of the nearly 36 languages spoken in Turkey are slowly disappearing, but 15 of those languages are still alive. The academic research centers, which support these languages, were not created for education and use, and as we know, the overwhelming majority of these languages have been ignored. In Turkey, research should be done on the demands for education in the main language that constitutes one of the fundamental dynamics of the Kurdish problem, how, where, how, how, how, how, how, how, and how to study the Kurdish language. Today, we study world countries, where 194 UN member states have more than one official language in 113 countries, and in many countries such as Sweden, Germany, India, education and education in the main languages. The rights earned by the people's struggle to acquire the native language are highlighted in many contracts today and in many international texts the importance of education in the native language, and it is a fact that no one can be prevented from learning the native language. The education system has become a test centre until the university's turn to start in elementary school. A student takes about 750 exams in his 16 years of education from elementary school to the end of higher education. This is -- our friends have expressed -- the KPSS problem, the college problems, they've been presented to society in a very shady way this year. There is yet to be a satisfactory statement of how right and wrong it is. Children's development experts, educators, are generally classified as children of the age of 0-6, 3-5, 5-6, and pre-school children. These age group children's attention spans, their motivations, are expressed as a group of people who need someone else to help provide for their personal needs. You've all already seen at the opening of these schools, it's obvious how much they need someone else's help with this kind of schooling, this kind of classization, that they're not ready, that they have bathrooms the size of children, and that they even need someone else's help to satisfy their natural needs. When many children's parents abandoned them, we all watched from time to time on television that they were crying. According to 2011 data, there are 539 boarding elementary schools, mostly in Kurdish provinces. In these schools, 247,563 students receive education, including 115,689 (or girls), 131,874 (or boys) and 247,563 (or children). [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] 12.990 teachers work in these schools. In short, boarding elementary schools, known in public as YIBO, have functioned as an assimilation centre among Kurdish children. These schools turned to barracks, even called death schools. In the 1938s of Abdullah Doğan, the governors of the special authorities stressed the importance of the YIBO (YIBO) when they taught Kurdish children Turkish and raised them as good Turkish citizens. Still...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0256par0180	Mr. Zenderlioğlu, your time is up, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0255par0181	I believe that in order for children to become good citizens of the world, environmental awareness, gender equality, human rights, multicultural, multilingual citizenship rights, democraticization process, well-educated, pluralistic, liberalism. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0256par0184	Thank you, Mr. Zenderlioglu. On behalf of the groups, the last speaker is Mr. Fikri Illum, a member of the Movement for Justice and Development Group. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0188	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTI Group on the motion that 22 MPs from the National Movement Party have made about our Minister for Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. I hereby salute the High Council. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are the most serious control tool according to our Constitution. It is of course the opposition's right to use this control tool. However, the use of this right should not only be intended for inspection; it should not be aimed at preventing the discussion of a bill, slowing down the work of parliament, disrupting the work of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0258par0190	Isn't that control?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0259par0191	You shouldn't have started with that.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0192	But still, we're going to give these friends...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0258par0193	Everyone's learning who gets what, and the public's learning, isn't that the gene?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0194	...we thank them for this opportunity to tell us about the AK PARTY's approach to education, the education policies of the EC PARTY, and the activities of the AK PARTI.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0260par0195	What time of the ministry are you going to tell me? He denies the others, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0196	Well, now, we talk about the government, our ministries...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0260par0197	Which minister are you going to tell, Hüseyin Beyin, Nimet Hanım, Omar Beyin, what period?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0198	My dear friends, I've read the reasons for the geneorization very carefully, so really, we wouldn't be disappointed if there were some serious, consistent, facts-based claims about a minister...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0260par0199	Since you don't already have that sensitivity, you can't possibly understand its contents.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0200	...but with no grounds, no concrete reasons, no facts, there's a back-to-back line of allegations...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0260par0201	Look, we're talking about national sensibilities. We don't expect you to understand him.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0202	...we're amazed to hear that Mr. Secretary has been granted a motion to ask. And here, before we had this conversation, I listened to all the friends who were talking.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0261par0203	May the Minister continue to use it as his father's farm!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0204	Friends, I'd like to share my two findings with you. One of them is: If a man closes his eyes and says, "How dark it is here, I think it is at night." And he closes his eyes and expects all the people to believe that it is night, he only deceives himself.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0262par0205	The Prime Minister thinks for you. What's the point of talking about such an idea?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0206	Dear friends, for almost a decade now, the whole of what we're talking about here has been spoken of from this bench, and it's been talked about for ten years, and in ten years, the Parliament has gone to the public seven times: 2002, 2004, 2007, 2007 referendum, 2009, 2010 referendums, 2011 elections. Those statements you said and those you didn't say here were asked to the public's opinion. The people said: "I mean, the opposition may be blindfolded, but I'm not blindfolded." And he taught the opposition the lesson...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0262par0207	That's what you thought!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0208	...but apparently, these lessons, these results, have not been learned enough. I thought of another subject, and I thought of a proverb, which says: "Big brains, medium brains, small minds, talk to people, talk to people." I mean, I'm here, in wonder...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0263par0210	Let the Minister use everything like his father's farm, and then we'll be small-minded!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0211	Of course, Mr. Secretary will certainly respond to his own personal, personal or personal issues, but on behalf of the Secretary, there are a few things that I am deeply sorry for.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0264par0212	Yeah, we'll give the gene to the ministers, it's not about political ideas.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0213	One of these, I believe, Mr. Secretary... I'll be right back. I'll tell them. Relax.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0264par0215	Don't you know the Civil Code? What's the gene for?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0216	Relax.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0265par0217	It's not about you, it's about Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0218	Mr. Secretary, I believe the academic...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0266par0219	What's the gene for? Isn't it for ministers? Is it for political ideas?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0220	It's given to ministers for their applications.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0266par0221	Is it for political ideas?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0222	It's given to ministers for their applications. To insult the ministers...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0266par0223	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0224	Look, here's something especially for Mr. Zuhal Topcu and Ahmet...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0266par0225	Who insulted the minister?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0226	Wait a second... I really respect Ahmet Bey's personality, and I find his style very highly here, but I have to say that I don't agree with the content of the talks at all, but...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0266par0228	Maybe.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0229	I'm also glad that in the last few days this House has come to a level of criticism from that rude and hurtful point of speech, and that's why I want to thank my friends. Now, alone, we have to enter the content, it's our job to discuss the content. My dear friends, Mr. Omar Dinçer is probably the only academic in the history of the world accused of plagiarism for quoting his own book.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0267par0231	How do you know?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0268par0232	There's more, but I don't want to tell you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0233	Shall I tell you how I know? Ask Oktay Soshi Bey, who is now a member of your own group. Please take a look at the article of Oktay Sokşi. That Omar Dinçer was accused of plagiarism because of his own quote from his book. What about beyond that? So when a person repeats a sentence in a book that he's already written, by the way, when another person quotes it, you quote it from here and not this book. Can it be blamed for plagiarism? And unfortunately, the SEC General Assembly on that day ruled it as plagiarism.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0267par0234	It's not like that, it's not like that.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0235	Now, where do we fit this into mercy?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0269par0236	It's that simple?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0237	Now, my dear friends, a friend of ours has come out here and said something about Mr. Omar Dinçer's son. He must have been a little ill. Let our friend heal our friend. Let me just ask you this: I don't know Mr. Dinçer's son's position, God knows it's the first time I've heard of it, but I'm curious as to which KPSS test Mr. Tütin took two of his secretaries to the House. He has to explain this to us. Let him explain with what KPSS test, what success he's taken to the House.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0270par0238	You're the one who took it.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0239	It's easy to slander people, but my dear friends, the most important thing about this House is to speak in a clean language without insulting people. Our job here is to evaluate ideas and events, not to deal with individuals. Now, my dear friends, of course, on the basis of this motion for the geneorization, we really need to underline a lot of success in the field of education in the AK PARTI Powers, but that doesn't mean that we're going to skip the grounds of the geneoric motion. In a few minutes, I'll explain what was accomplished in training in the AK PARTI power, and then I'm going to go into the reasons for your gene. Now look, dear friends, we, first of all, as the AK PARTY, view education as the most important element of development in every field. We see the essentials of reaching the welfare community and catching a strong future. We also consider training to be the most basic service area to achieve a powerful public goal. AS AK PARTY, we view education as a lifelong event that improves the quality of our people's life, that makes our country's human resource competitive with the modern world, and that makes it a challenge to the modern world. My dear friends, one of the most important indicators in a government's approach to a subject is the budget; it's a share of the budget to that institution, to that subject. Look, AK PARTY has been the largest budget in education since its ruling term. We've been transferring the most money from the budget to education, uninterrupted, for ten years. What better way to describe a power's view of education? Education in the budget of 2002, when we took power, is $7.5 billion; 2.13 per cent of the illegal product. Look, in 2012, my dear friends, they're going up to $39.1 billion, so it's going up more than six stories. Now in the 2013 budget, I believe you'll pass with your support -- it goes up to 47.5 billion dollars. So we added 7.5 to 40 billion -- 40 quadrillion old coins. This training... Friends, I was very curious: did we build 181,000 classrooms in Greece rather than in Turkey? (So our friends from the opposition party just spoke as if they were not built in Turkey; 181,000 classrooms, 880 student hostels, 1,000 gyms, 14,000 new labs were not built in this country. No, all of this was done in this country, and it was done for the children of this country. You may not see them, you may ignore them, you may want to prevent the public from seeing them, but our nation sees the truth. My dear friends have added to the power of 92 new universities at 76 current universities. Today, higher education increased the capacity of the country from 185,000 to 350,000 AK PARTY. From those ward-type dorms to hotel-type dorms, we're now in the AK PARTY administration. We did it in this country. A million new computers, Internet access to all schools, knowledge technology classes in all schools above 8 courses, the AK PARTI ruling. In this country, the FATIH Project launched the AK PARTY. The effort to trivialize the FATIH Project, you'll see, will be a great disrespect to history, and do you know why? We said that FATHIH Project last year when we were discussing 4+4, our friends here: No sir, Turkey's infrastructure is not enough, Turkey can't do it. No, Turkey is doing it. The tenders are being held one after the other, and all local companies are going, and there is a very serious competition going on, and the FATIH Project, with Allah's permission, has begun to illuminate Turkey's future and will illuminate its future. We have no hesitation at this point. The FATIH Project, along with all the equipment for all the classrooms, smart board, tablet computers for every student, electronic content for every student, or you're likely to be a student. The content is so beautiful that you click on the Internet, it's so out of the way of classical learning...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0271par0246	Is there one in Hakkari, or Bitlis, or Mush?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0247	...visual, fun, spectacularly beautiful teaching methods with electronic content. Friends, you may not see this, but don't think the public doesn't.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0272par0248	Congressman, you see, the students don't.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0249	Look, there have been huge steps in Turkey at the point of equal opportunity in education during the AK PARTI ruling period. Free book distribution, all of our students, conditional cash transfer, poor child, as long as you read, I pay for your education. The state, the child, the family, the mother, each student. Elementary scholarships were given 12 lira to 95,000 students, while today, 124,000 students were given $111,000. The transport education system has been expanded, secondary education covered. Many campaigns, such as Girls School, have compensated the level of education in Turkey and the disadvantaged conditions of our girls. Serious steps have been taken at the point of uninterrupted education for the disabled. Look, dear friends, scholarships, loans, and dorms set a record during the AK PARTY. The $45 scholarship went up to $260, hopefully even higher by New Year's Eve. Feeding aid is $180. Dear friends, most importantly, since the establishment of the YKK in this country, the fees have been removed, right? Is it possible to ignore them now? But dear friends often aim to make them social democratic powers in the world. Social Democrats think it's really important to them, but in Turkey, all these actions, all these achievements, the AK PARTI has carried out. E, in order to cover it all up a little bit out of jealousy, he said this, he said this, he went here, he came here, he took this, he gave this... No, they're not covered up. These are important achievements in the history of the Republic of Turkey, which are not covered up. My dear friends, they're talking about teachers. In ten years, we're a power with 357,000 teachers.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0273par0258	Thirty-five thousand a year, and thirty-five thousand in 2002. Where are you, counting in the same place in ten years!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0259	Yeah, in ten years and 2012...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0273par0260	Look at 2001, how many were appointed? Same number. Why haven't you increased these in ten years?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0261	I looked, I looked at all the numbers. 15 grand, 17 grand. Take a look.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0273par0262	Look, look, look at all of them. Don't forget the 34 grand.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0263	What year? 15 grand, 17 grand.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0273par0264	35,000 in 2002. The Minister is here, you're misinformation. Thirty-four thousand, five hundred and change.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0265	Look, we got 57,000 teachers in 2012. We've put 357,000 new teachers on our training staff, folks.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0273par0266	You say what's good for you, you say what's not good for you, you say it wrong; it doesn't happen. 34,500 appointments have been made. You've been standing in the same place for ten years.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0267	You've disgraced teaching. You say. What if the teacher's reputation goes down, school admission points go up or down? If the reputation goes down, the points go down. Today, the higher education institutions with the highest score have become almost educational institutions.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0274par0268	Yeah, he looked like a pigeon, Mr. Secretary, like a pigeon in front of the house. Where's the dignity in that?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0269	Look, there's been talk of salaries, dear friends, and there's been talk of wages here. Let me give you a single number, and I'll leave the rest to your mercy: 9/1 teacher gets 635 liras in 2002, including an additional course. Today, in 2012, the same teacher receives $2,276, including an additional course. If you think that inflation in Turkey is 130 per cent, it is clear that teachers are not crushed under inflation, but that their situation is indeed strengthened.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0275par0270	Then why are teachers on the street?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0271	Oh, we don't think that's enough. Now, new teacher strategy studies continue. I know very well that in this new strategy, our teachers have new work to improve their position and their rights to self. I have to say that the education grant was raised from $175 in 2002 to $700 today.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0275par0272	Look, they're sending you their regards by text, asking if this fellow who's talking lives in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0273	My dear friends, today we have a number of students who have fallen from 36 to 30 in Turkey, not in Greece, per classroom. Today, we have a number of students from 28 to 21 per teacher. In a little while, my dear friends, I can't get in, especially because of the time shortage, but I'd like to submit these reasons to your opinion.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0275par0275	Come to the next question, the next question.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0276	See, my dear friends, the reasons for this generic proposal, one, let me make it very clear that the Minister is being charged with something he is not responsible for in the least, in the mildest sense. Sir, the class teachers suffered a great loss due to the ▪4+4+4. • Friends, 4+4+4, 6287. It was carried out of Parliament's will, from five to four years in primary school, and from three to four years in secondary school. Here, Mr. Secretary, it gives teachers the right to major in the non-aggression of teachers, the lack of advanced capacity, the lack of discomfort from teachers as a result of their inability to attend the class.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0275par0278	Do teachers work for the Ministry of Internal Affairs?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0276par0279	Don't make fun of the people, if you love God. So it's the House's fault, so we should give the House the gene?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0280	Why did you do such a thing when you did something that should be applauded?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0276par0282	And there you are clapping, clapping, for Christ's sake!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0283	I have to say this in particular.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0277par0284	Do teachers work for the Department of Agriculture, Mr. Light?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0285	The second issue, my dear friends, is that the ministry has been restructured. Of course, the ministry has been restructured, and a very proper job has been done. When Turkey came to power, Turkey had serious inadequacies in infrastructure and physical conditions.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0278par0286	Isn't it the Minister who drafted the bill?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0287	THE priority of the EC PARTY's power is to satisfy those inadequacies, to meet the needs here, and then the inadequacies in this infrastructure are to achieve quality in education, at least once it's been satisfied. Now, at the end of eight and a half years of power, the Ministry had, of course, the necessity for quality-axis restructuring, and that was given to Mr. Omar Dinçer.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0279par0289	Your power has been 11 years. Mr. Light, they gave you the note three years ago.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0280par0290	You're old-fashioned, so you're a bit old-fashioned.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0291	If an opportunity had come to Mr. Minister before him, I'm sure Mr. Nimet would have done it, and so would Mr. Hussein Steel.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0279par0292	He says eight and a half years, eleven, eleven. That's a three-year-old note, get it updated.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0280par0293	Blessing's already answered, he's told me what to do.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0294	Now, here, the reduction of bureaucracy, the establishment of quality-oriented new units, the facilitating of services for citizens; many innovations such as this, the institutionalization of the Ministry will be criticised -- no, sir -- is the director of this group, the paralegalized... The institutions are based on principles. If the Minister sees your performance low, of course he won't, if he sees it high. This is the Minister's right to be praised. It's not the right approach to make the Minister's right of credit a reason for the motion to ask.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0280par0295	Wow!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0296	Yes, my dear friends, about teachers who are not appointed...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0280par0297	You prepare a genome, too!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0298	Dear friends, look, it's not a teacher who hasn't been appointed, it's a teacher the government needs. Right now, we need about 100,000 teachers.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0280par0299	Here...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0300	As far as budgets are concerned, hopefully, these applications, these purchases will be made as soon as possible.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0281par0301	Mr. Secretary says it's 150 grand, which one is it?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0302	I'll tell you another thing: he says, "Here, sir, it's not mandatory before school.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0282par0303	He brought old notes, old ones!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0281par0304	He brought the old notes, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0305	My dear friends, we've talked about this a lot in 4+4.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0282par0306	I think it's the notes from Ms. Nimet's time.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0307	If you have legal obligations before school, you will victimize your citizen.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0282par0308	This is the wrong speech!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0309	I mean, it won't be mandatory for a citizen, but it'll be mandatory for an administrator. There's no legal obligation, there's no administrative obligation. A governor's success is measured by where he puts his province before school. The success of a chief of staff, the success of a national education director, is measured by his pre-school success. It's impossible to ignore them. Sure, there's a lot to talk about, but let me put it this way...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0282par0311	It wasn't enough, I'm afraid it wasn't time to ask questions.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0312	...no reason for this gene is based on reality, subjective assessments.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0283par0314	Explain the reason for the second sentence from the last one.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0257par0315	As the AK PARTY, I say we're against your genus, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0284par0317	Mr. President, the friend couldn't come to the question. Give him another 20 minutes and he'll tell you about the gene.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0285par0318	He couldn't make it to the next one.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0286par0319	Here you go, Mr. Sour.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0287par0320	Mr. President, the Minister has made statements about me, about the truth, about me, and I don't think it's appropriate. I want a promise.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0286par0321	Here you go, sir. In two minutes, please...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0287par0323	Is this gonna fit in two minutes, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0286par0324	I always do.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0287par0327	My esteemed friends, who were just speaking, the Orator, who mentioned your name and my name, unfortunately made a false statement. Mr. Hatibin's statement, I took it this way: would it be an attempt if my writing was repeated by myself? It can't have happened, but it's not what was done. In the course of his professorship, Mr. Omar Dinçer did one-on-one quotes from the book of Professor Tamer Koçel. Later, after the matter was publicized, the assistant professor, John Fidan, who served in Sivas, published a two - signed book with him, after the decision was made in the SEC, when it became self-inflicted. There are also references from Mr. Tamer Koçel's book -- and later -- according to his statement -- from his book, but it is not about the transfer he made from his own book, but about the transfer of Tamer Koçel. If you'd like the details, I'll let you know. It's decided, it's decided. In fact, Mr. Omar Dinçer attempted to file an insulting suit against me on this occasion; the court referred the matter to the expert, and his case was dismissed. He's here, and I'd be happy to listen to him if there's any truth to what I'm saying. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0286par0330	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0288par0331	Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0286par0332	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0288par0333	Mr. Muharrem, who was a member of the group, has just made a mockery of our deputy, Mr. Muharrem Encel. The information he gave about Mr. Tüncel is contrary to the truth.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0289par0334	What's against the truth?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0288par0335	I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0290par0336	Yes, come in in two minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0288par0338	Mr. President, I would like to request that our friend speaking on behalf of the ruling party group, Mr. Minister of National Education, be able to answer the alleged issues with more realistic evidence. Apparently, you don't have the evidence, you don't have the reasons, that he's trying to discredit his opponents, the people who talk about Mr. Secretary by using another method. Now, Mr. Hatip hints that Mr. Muharrem Encel took two of his secretaries to the House with what KPSS exam. In the name of Mr. Tünce, I'll tell you right now. Number one: no group deputy, no MP, will take personnel on their own, recommends hiring staff, appoints Parliament Speaker; that's one. Two...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0291par0342	You're giving false information. I'll give you a name.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0288par0343	I'm coming, listen. Don't worry, my friend. Two: A consultant of Mr. Encel has been a civil servant since 2002. In 2002, he scored over 90 points on the KPSS exam, serving in the Turkish Grand National Assembly for ten years. Another friend who worked for Mr. Encel was appointed to the Court in 97, and has served in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey since 99. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, I'm asking you, what's wrong with that?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0292par0347	You're giving false information, General Board.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0288par0348	You have nothing, you have no evidence to defend the Minister. Look, you're referring to Mr. Oktay Sorik. Even about the plagiarism. If I were you, I'd say something like that. You couldn't even say that because it's all true. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0293par0351	Thank you. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0294par0353	Speaking on behalf of the AKP, the MP has made a mockery of the inadequacy of our client's inadequacies.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0295par0354	It's not a tease. I didn't make fun of you, I gave you my opinion.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0294par0355	Therefore, we want to respond to these allegations, which are unconstitutional, without evidence. Mr. Zuhal Topcu as a motion, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0295par0357	Mr. President, these aren't taunts, I've given my opinion.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0294par0358	Yeah, that's what you said! If he's breaking free...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0296par0359	You said small men deal with individuals. I think you need to apologize, Mr. Fikri.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0295par0360	Why should we apologize?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0296par0361	So you've never dealt with individuals.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0297par0362	It's your job to be a person.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0296par0363	It just didn't work out.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0298par0364	Mr. Topcu, in two minutes, please...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0299par0366	Mr. President, thank you. First of all...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0300par0368	I've given you my personal opinion.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0299par0369	Yes, Fikri Hajji. First of all, I'd like to point out that when this whole geneorization thing is an effort for small-minded people...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0300par0371	Never... never...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0299par0372	If I'm not mistaken, I think the ones who put it in the Civil Charter then are small-minded, which is what happened.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0300par0373	That's not what I meant.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0301par0374	It's the little brain that says that.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0299par0375	Yeah... well, I'd appreciate it if you'd take it back, please. I'll tell you that. Now it's evidence in education. When you say, "Are we mixing quantity and attributes?" Now, what we're saying here is that, of course, the number of buildings is important, the number of classrooms, the possibilities are important, but it's important how these things are filled, and we have to be very careful about them. For that, there are national and international criteria. Especially when it comes to how our children are fed. When I say "feeding," as an intellectual, as a teaching, I want to give them to you. You can put in beautiful classes, technological classes, you can prepare them, but how you fill them is important. If the quality's up, I suggest you look at the PISA results. If quality has risen, I suggest you look at what success you've achieved in OECD standards, and I suggest you look at the skills of children to express themselves, to stretch, to use information, to use concepts. It's important to him, to build a building, but it's more important to stuff it. That's what I want to say. So I'm thinking that it's illegal for us to try to refute our motion, unsubstantiated, baseless, with such a claim. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0302par0379	Thank you, Mr. Gunner. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0303par0381	I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0304par0382	What did he say?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0302par0383	What kind of teasing?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0305par0384	Why didn't you just ask? How many people get up every time? At least three of you get up after one orator, you know, talking.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0304par0385	No, what did he say?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0306par0386	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0307par0387	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0306par0388	I accept the statement of the CHP Group Deputy as a taunt, and I want a promise.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0308par0389	No, sir, no teasing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0309par0390	I don't have to make it clear...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0310par0391	No, I don't think... maybe he'll apologize.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0311par0392	He said I made a statement against the truth, so let me explain this, one. And second of all...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0312par0394	All right, in two minutes, please, without a new pick-me-up. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0311par0397	Thank you. Now, dear friends, we're not talking about anything without evidence. As for Mr. Encel, please have the Deputy Director of the Group examine the adoption of a lady named Esra. I don't remember her last name at the moment. I, in particular, have never had the same intention as the other Ahmet Duran Bulut Sir, to whom I respect Miss Zuhal, and so on, sir, to understand such a thing. I just meant the terms of the minister's individual. One. Secondly, dear friends, quality in education is a process. Look, the ancients have a very nice saying that if you want to buy products in a year, plant land, plant trees in ten years, grow people if you want to buy products in a hundred years.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0313par0400	You cut down trees, not trees!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0311par0401	Right now, as the AK PARTY Power, we've begun to achieve success at the point of quality. In the last three PISA exams, we've seen some, if not enough, improvements, and we believe that the 2012 PISA results will be better than 2009, the 2015 PISA results will be much better. Why? Look, the curriculum reform in 2005-2006 has slowly begun to return to fruit today. As an educator, you know very well that the results will not be taken from today to tomorrow. So, we have to be patient, we have to continue to apply the policies correctly and decisively. In the final sentence, you spoke about the classrooms, but look at the last line of the 133° page of the Party Programme, which will be encouraged to convert classrooms into private schools. Please, I'm bringing this to your attention. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0314par0406	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0315par0407	They must have committed suicide on us!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0316par0408	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0314par0409	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0316par0410	Mr. President, just now, Mr. Speaker has appeared on the stand, in his previous speech, Mr. Muharrem has made a claim about the staff working next to Encel. He's got no claim, nothing, I'm out, I'm out, I'm out.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0317par0411	No, I said, were you bought with KPSS? Why aren't you answering?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0316par0412	Now he's coming out again, he says: "I don't know what his last name is, but his name is Elvira. " I mean, there's no such thing, I asked Mr. Tüyük, and I don't have anyone who works for me. Now, would such a Parliamentary meeting be possible, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0318par0414	Mr. Hamzacebi, look, hundreds have been taken from the Court, the AK PARTY has nothing to say about this!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0319par0415	Don't lower the level, no last name!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0316par0416	I mean, you get this name, this last name, this person, this person, against the law, they're in charge of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0320par0417	I'll tell you tomorrow!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0316par0418	There's no such claim, he's too busy throwing mud all the time. Mr. Oktay has taken refuge in Soshi's article regarding the Minister, Mr. Sour has explained that the article here has nothing to do with the truth. I mean, I've never seen a speaker who's in such a difficult position to defend the Minister. I'm presenting it to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0321par0420	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi, your words have been taken.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0322par0421	I think he's going to say yes!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0323par0422	We're waiting on a document. He doesn't know what he's doing.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0321par0426	Dear lawmakers, negotiations on behalf of the groups are over. Now, on behalf of the government, Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer... Here you go, Mr. Dinçer. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0431	Mr. President, very dear MPs, when I begin my words, I salute all of you with love and respect. My dear friends, you've heard the speakers before me. So I listened very carefully. By 2003, education was very good in Turkey, our children had knowledge and skills that could compete at a global level, our teachers were the most prestigious in this country, so we brought them down. You can assume that. Now, I'm going to briefly share with you how realistic all of this is sitting on the ground and what it really means. Let me start by saying that in 2002, primary schooling rate is around 50.6%, not even 51 percent.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0325par0435	I don't get it. Elementary?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0436	Excuse me, 51.6% in secondary school and 91 percent in elementary school.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0325par0437	What country is it in, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0438	What country are we talking about right now?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0326par0439	France?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0327par0440	Compared to 1992 and 2002, the numbers will be different again, very natural.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0441	Schooling at 91 per cent elementary school in Turkey in 2002...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0326par0442	You answer the criticism, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0327par0443	Ten years later, of course it'll change!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0444	51.6 percent middle school. At the same time, the number of students per class was 36. At the same time, about 350,000 teachers...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0326par0445	You answer the reviews.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0446	And their income, their annual income -- I'm telling you on the OECD scale -- is grossly gross per year, one. So let me give you a brief definition of where the world is coming from. Within this structure, in 2009, the whole world -- including African countries, South Asia, Latin American countries -- came to 88 percent of secondary schools in secondary schools, and all countries in primary schools solved their problems. The United States is trying to make 40 per cent of its total population a university graduate, and Japan is trying to make 100 per cent of its modern population a university graduate.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0328par0448	What are you doing? Mullah training!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0449	South Korea is trying to make 100 per cent of its age graduate university, and in Turkey, we are accused of making high school education mandatory for 12 years.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0329par0450	No one's blaming me!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0330par0451	No one's blaming me.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0452	In fact, we've never heard of how to close the distance.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0329par0453	It's a twist, it's a twist!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0330par0454	You're twisting it!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0455	I'll tell you this: even now, not in 2002, despite all our efforts, Turkey's education age is 6.1 and the world is 12. So, if anyone else has any other suggestions other than ours about how to shut this down, please let him say so. We, yes, have reconstructed the educational system with our vision. We've reconstructed not only the education system, but also the Ministry of National Education. Because a new vision is a point where you can only achieve new resources, new structure, new human resources. So...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0331par0457	But you're a failure!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0458	He'll make it public, so don't worry, don't worry. Public opinion will determine who's successful and who's not. Not only the national public, but the international public will find out.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0331par0459	The numbers are in the middle, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0460	From this point of view, look, I'll give you a brief discussion of what we've done with the reconstruction. It's probably been over a year, so it's worth remembering. Dear friends, we have reconstructed the Ministry of National Education. Before restructuring, we had more than 35 units of management, including the general managership, independent management units.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0332par0462	You didn't leave any national training, how dare you come out here and talk?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0463	Before the restructuring process, there were only five directorates interested in vocational education. There was no study of life-long learning that the whole world spoke of and was now opened as a new part of my society's educational system. Their vocational high school was becoming increasingly weak. Now, in this structure, right after we set up reconstruction, we once made the organization very small and active because we know that we can only adapt to the world with a much shorter, quicker decision-making, less cost-consuming structure. From this angle, we have about 20 administration units now, if you look at it as a general manager and administrative unit, the Chief of Staff, Press Consulting, legal counseling, 15-16. While we were doing that, we raised vocational education under one roof and eliminated a serious problem of dissonance in vocational education. Now, in vocational education, girls' vocational high school, industry vocational high school, Anadolu industry vocational high school, technical and industrial vocational high school, the many structures of dissonance, conflict and conflict of the program, and with the construction that we are rapidly doing, we are now at the point of implementing a unit-based education system, in line with modern, modern world education techniques, in line with educational methodology. In fact, we established a solid and powerful infrastructure for our people from the age of 25 to the age of twenty-two, not until the age of twenty-two, but now in the world in which we are, assuming that there is a need for learning and education for the rest of the life of a human being. Preschool education, elementary school and secondary school are no longer separate, and despite all criticism, we work hard to achieve 100 percent of the education in preschool, just as in primary school. Since the teacher always needs to be cared for...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0333par0468	Wasn't there another man, you made his brother-in-law an undersecretary?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0469	I have another little surprise to remind those who talk about the dishonorability of teaching: that we have established another general manager who has been tasked with a special function to improve the teacher's reputation, to improve his professional development, to work on his career plan, while we have not yet had an exclusive name at the National Ministry of Education. He's had a name before, but we've given a new mission to this department, which can't even do the teachers' vocational training, a definition of tutoring and teaching. Other than that, we've narrowed down the hierarchical steps. We've narrowed down a hierarchy with eight digits, an undersecretary, a deputy secretary, a general manager, an assistant director, a head of the department, a branch manager, a chief of the department, a chief, an officer, to about eight or nine digits, down to four. We've also discussed our relationships, our relationship at the state level. See, I'm going to give you a little example of how it's saved and worked effectively: in 2011 -- this is a figure of our time -- the former Department of Education, the old organization structure, the old process, the old decision-making mechanisms, and all investments in the investment programme, which was put into effect at that time and included in projects, were able to tender only 10 per cent of all investments in 2012, and in 2012, after all the measures taken, we have signed 58 per cent of all investment projects into the 2012 programme by the end of September. So, of course, this flexible, fast-working structure of the Ministry of National Education may have bothered someone, but I don't want to say too much about it. And after we did all that, we did some serious staff work that could lift this structure. You know, again, critics have criticised more on driver's licenses and merits, but we've actually seen on this occasion that they have no idea how someone is going to be assigned, because especially in the criticism of the appointment of city managers, management was actually judged by the same result that the underprivileged ones were also incompetent. Yeah, I put those friends in charge. Their management rank is weak, inadequate, but as far as their upbringing, experience, and training, I know that they may be better off than the more senior executives, and I am proud of their success here. I want to tell you something else: I would really like to share with you a little bit of information about the friends we've brought on the mission. Without sharing information about what I've been relieved of, what I just want you to know is that you can assume the opposite of the people on the new mission. Currently, 393 branch managers serve in the previous period, while about 140 heads, the general manager, the vice president, are serving in our ministry today as the 114 general managers and group presidents in exchange for that 140. Instead of 393 branch managers, we work with 17 branch managers. I mean the active staff. Here, 54 of these 114 executives have completed their master's degree, four of them are continuing their master's degree, 23 have completed their doctorates, nine of them are continuing their doctorates. I only have 13 friends who don't have a master's degree or a PhD, and they're on a mission based on their old experience, but more importantly, they're all from people who taught in the field for at least five to ten years, who have field knowledge and experience. Again, these friends of mine now, if we take 70 points in the KPDS -- the foreign language exam -- and the bureaucracy accepts that -- have about 39 to 43 of our friends who have this score in foreign language. But if I tell you that there are 54 of our friends, who speak and speak a foreign language, who speak a foreign language even though they have no KPDS, I can tell you how a qualified staff works at the Ministry of National Education. Yeah, I put these guys on duty, and each one of them was brought in with a driver's license, merits, and each one of them we laid out the rules and the rules of success, and I worked with these friends for about a year. The rule of the game, the price of success was obvious, and I put them all on temporary assignment. My colleagues who succeeded in the mission are continuing their duties today, so I replaced my friends who I thought were not successful or could not keep up with the team, so I replaced them with new ones, and I looked for the same driver's licenses and merit requirements. What's wrong with you? Isn't this a document that shows that I have the strength to relieve my fellow officers of my duties? More importantly, isn't this one of the biggest indicators that the Ministry of National Education is actually doing a successful work? More importantly, isn't this an expression that we're actually based on merit? So let me put something else: If we measure the performance of these friends, we see the result together. If you take into account that the 4+4+4 system that was released in May was immediately started after June, Turkey entered a new system without problems. That was the success of my friends. I'd like to thank all my friends who are on duty today, or who aren't, who I've relieved of duty, in your presence, to tell you where their support and help has gotten us. Very dear friends...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0334par0478	And tell me about the Board of Training Discipline, Training Discipline.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0479	It's beautiful. I forgot. I did the same thing with the Board of Education. With 15 members, I've reduced the number of members to 10.... and the members who will be assigned there have already been taught, who have the pull, who are close to the Minister, where they can easily go, when they're in a position...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0335par0480	Either you've got nine members in there.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0481	I've just described it as quality.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0336par0482	Why did you bring the torpedoes there?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0483	We put people there who specialize in studying abroad and abroad.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0337par0484	Don't let Huseyin Bey and Nimet Hanim be blamed so much.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0336par0485	You blame the former ministers so much...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0486	He's working with 10 members, and after that, with the new panel system, followed by the whole world, we've brought the writing and book control method to Turkey, and good luck.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0338par0487	You've driven 130 teachers.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0488	Yeah, exactly. Because this app and panel system that we're doing now prevents us from needing 30 years of teachers to supervise books at the Ministry.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0338par0490	Exactly. You heard him, didn't you?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0491	Very dear friends, about this matter...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0339par0492	The phrase "driver" was inappropriate, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0493	I didn't use that phrase.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0340par0494	Yes, you did.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0339par0495	Yes, you did.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0496	Tell that to the person who asked. Now, very dear friends, about the teacher, indeed, the teacher is being disreputable, and it's based on what I say. I call it gossip, because none of that, those words, almost don't suit me, and I didn't say anything like that. But I'm guessing that my friends are confusing the way that we approach a problem, that we're dealing with, that we understand the problem, that we're in, that we're in, that we're in, that we're in, and that we're in, and we're in, and we're in, and we're in, and we're in, and we're in, and we're in, and we're in, and we're in, and we're in, and we're in, and we're in, and we're in, and we're in. Today, for our teachers, what you've said so far, teachers are very valuable, teachers are as important as this. If there really is a value to the teaching profession, then I don't understand it, and it's never my style. Yes, teachers are at the center of our educational system. That's how we see it. We consider the teaching profession, the Turkish education system and all education systems around the world, perhaps the most critical factor, strategic importance, an important element. But not with envy, but with a few good words, with the practices that we do. For one thing, first of all, when compared with the number of teachers that have been taken so far, please compare the number of teachers taken from that time with the teachers that were taken until 2003. My friends gave you the numbers. So, from the look of it, we're actually filling in the teaching staff...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0341par0499	Mr. Secretary, name the staff in 2002, name the number of teachers taken, let the friend find out.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0500	...we've made the position of teaching more specific in the educational system. Today, in Turkey, according to the norm staff in the Southeast Anatolian region and the Eastern Anatolian region, teachers have reached 90 per cent and have even reached 92 per cent. Again, today, in the rest of Turkey, teachers have 85 per cent of fullness compared to the norm staff. Very valuable friends, regarding the salaries of teachers, from 2002 to this time, I'm making it very clear and clear that after the actual 135 percent, cumulative inflation comes out, we've given a 122 percent real increase in salary and today I'm giving the same scale. According to the gross national product per Fert, the salary our teachers receive from the total non-profit product has increased from one to 1.12, and a real increase has been made. Of course, there's so much to be said about these things, I'm afraid I'm running out of time. There are a few things that I don't want to discuss, but I'd like to inform you. One of them, unfortunately, is the rumor about my brother and my child. Thank God, I'm telling you again and again, I didn't drink sour buttermilk, my stomach didn't hurt. My brother was an assistant chief physician at any hospital in Turkey, before I came to Ankara and became Deputy Secretary of the Prime Minister, and he's still not active, but he is. It is true that he worked on the World Bank project. But people who work on the World Bank project don't choose staff of the Ministry of Health, they choose the World Bank's unit that supports that project and they approve it. Because my brother is not only a doctor, he is also one of the few people who specializes in hospital management in Turkey, and our Minister of Health is here, himself.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0342par0503	Where? He's not here.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0504	For once, if I ever told him about my brother, about the matter, in eight decades, you can all spit in my face together.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0343par0505	Could your brother have mentioned it?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0324par0506	Because I'm being very clear about this. The information about my own son is not true, it's gossip. My kid doesn't work for Turkish Airlines, he works for an American firm with Turkish Airlines in common. Before coming here, he was an insurance company in the United States; I repeat, before coming here, he was an executive in an insurance company in the United States of America. They transferred him here, uh, willingly, and now my kid's gonna leave by the end of the year, and I don't know any other opportunity for any of your kids to be employed this delicately, especially those who blame me. I want to make it very clear that today my brother and my child would be in better places if I weren't the Minister. So you can explain it to everyone exactly how I explain it in front of you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Let me tell you something else about plagiarism. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm out of time, but with a few sentences... Oktay Sour isn't telling the truth. As far as Oktay Sokşı is concerned, I have no interest in managing Tamer Koçel.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0344par0513	Two more minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0345par0514	We know about Oktay Soshi, and we know about you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0346par0515	Mr. President, let's hear it, it's nothing!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0347par0516	What am I not telling the truth about?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0348par0517	I wasn't charged with business management and plagiarism there, and I wasn't punished. First, I'm going to charge him with...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0349par0518	Can't hear you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0348par0519	Mr. President, the microphone...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0350par0520	Minister, I apologize, I haven't given it to anyone, and I won't give it to you. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0351par0521	There's no transmission, it's nothing!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0348par0522	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0350par0524	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0352par0525	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0350par0526	Here you go, Mr. Sour...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0352par0527	He made a very clear statement, sir, a false statement.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0350par0528	What did he say, sir? Did he say something about you?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0353par0529	He didn't say anything.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0352par0530	He clearly accused me of being a liar.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0350par0531	Please, in a minute and without a challenge.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0352par0534	My esteemed friends, the Minister of National Education, have stated that I have declared yours contrary to the truth. A Minister of National Education, if he's the one who made a statement against the truth, then we all have a very serious issue in terms of the future of the children we've delivered to him. I present to you, sir: The Minister of National Education attempted to press charges against me after he was discovered by me as a journalist of the fact that Professor Tamer Koçel had committed suicide from his book. Time passed, and a young man named Yahya Fidan had published a two - autographed book with him, an associate professor at the University of Sivas. The University of Cumhuriyet, in Sivas, launched a study of the book based on a very likely tip. Yehia Fidan Τa...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0350par0536	Mr. Sour, thank you, sir. You just told me that, same thing. Please, please, please, sir...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0354par0539	There's a court order. You said, show him.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0355par0540	Mr. President, I have information to correct for bullying and misinformation, I promise.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0350par0541	Just a minute, and I promise you.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0356par0542	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0350par0543	Mr. Sour, I said one minute, please... so you said it, it's clear.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0357par0544	He hasn't finished yet, Mr. President, there's still more.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0358par0545	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0350par0546	Is Mr. Topman going to talk?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0358par0547	Sir, please promise me that this is about sincerity.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0359par0549	Dear friends, everything I say is finalized by the court order, you may ask the Minister.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0350par0551	Mr. Sour, I'm sorry, I said one minute, it's yours. Mr. Topcu, here you are, sir...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0360par0553	That's no way to pick on me, Mr. President, for God's sake!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0350par0554	Mr. Topcu, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] In a minute, please, whatever you want to explain...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0361par0557	Open a formal debate.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0350par0558	Calm down!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0362par0560	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, now, as we always say, our goal is to eat grapes, not to beat up the laces. These kids are ours. The kids we're trying to shape or work with in this educational system are ours. So, Mr. Secretary says, "You're making a hammock." We're not making a hammock. Mr. Secretary, we've bleached this hair into this, let's just say that. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] When the minister is asked a question, he immediately answers: "You don't know. " In fact, he is the one who doesn't know. We've worked in this community for 28 years. He's supposed to be, as I say, insulting, as I said, you don't know. It's like... Mr. Secretary, we know everything and we're following you closely. We've created a new vision. You say, there's no vision; we've reconstructed the technical training of the profession. You say, there's no new structure, and you can't do anything you keep saying.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0363par0565	Thank you, Mr. Gunner.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0364par0566	Teacher, let's take the Minister's exam, see if he passes.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0362par0567	Sir?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0364par0568	If we took the exam with Minister Alim Hoxha...
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0365par0569	Mr. Secretary, could you make a statement in a minute, please?
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0366par0570	Give me two minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0365par0571	No, no, one moment, please. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0367par0574	My dear friends, I say again, I was not accused of quoting Tamer Koçel, and I was not punished. In fact, when it came to this, Tamer Koçel -- at that time the Milliyet newspapers could be followed -- made a statement to the press, and we have no problem with that. We don't have any information about Omar Bey's suicide. Since the SEC thought it couldn't get anything out of this place, it later punished me through the book of Executive Management. Now, I just want to say, I'm not going to dwell on it very long: there's a rotten, rotten gum in the mouths of those who claim the tyranny of the custody regime, if they want to continue chewing on it. I have a clear head on that subject, a clear heart, and a very comfortable conversation.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0365par0577	Thank you. Members of parliament, talks on whether or not the motion to ask for a gene is being raised on the agenda of the Minister of National Education, Mr. Ömer Dinçer. Now, there's a motion for an open vote on the motion for the motion to be passed, so I'm going to read the motion and call the signees. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We'd like to submit an open vote on the motion to ask for a motion on the national education minister. Oktay Vural, İzmir? Here. Scholar Light, Kütahya? Here. Zuhal Topcu, Ankara? Here. Ali Longırmak, Aydın? Here. Ali Halaman, Adana? Here. Reşat Right, Slap? Here. Nevzat Don't Be Afraid, Isparta? Here. Koray Aydın, Tripoli? No.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0368par0594	I can't help it.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0365par0595	Mr. Turkoglu is taking over. Lütfü Türkkan, Bigeli? No.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0369par0597	I can't help it.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0365par0598	Mr. Halaçoglu is taking over. Ali Öz, Mersin? Here. Amin Çınar, Kastamon? Here. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana? Here. Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu, Izmir? Here. Mehmet Erdogan, Muğla? Here. Sure Haluk Ayhan, Denizli? Here. Ahmet Duran Bulut, Balıkesir? Here. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We'll vote on an electronic voting device. As per the verdict, I'm giving you three minutes to open the vote with the electronic device. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within a three-minute period scheduled for a vote. In addition, I would like to ask that the ministers who will vote by proxy vote be voted by any minister in the three-minute period envisioned for the vote to deliver the color of the game and the ballot bearing his first name and name. Members of Parliament, meanwhile, the Minister of National Education, Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, Minister of Culture and Tourism, Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications Mr. Balali Yıldırım, Minister of Youth and Sports, Minister of Youth and Sports Suat Kılıç. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans (11/20) I present the open vote of the primary Gensoru Council: ▪ Number of votes used : 327 [[x]] Mustafa Hamarat Muhammad Bilal Macit In this way, it is not acceptable to bring up the motion on the motion for the geneorization of the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer.
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0370par0626	He fell again, he didn't do it again, he's down from 276. The AKP Group doesn't trust ministers!
tbmm-2012-11-14sit02spe0365par0627	Congressmans, according to the decision taken, it is Thursday (November 15th 2012) that we discuss other tasks from the commissions for draft and proposals, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Thursday (November 15th 2012). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
