tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Osman Boyraz, who asked for the 39th anniversary of the death of Ashk Veysel Şatıroğlu, a Turkish poet. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Boyraz.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-the-top promise to mark the 39th year of the death of the great public bard lover Veysel. I hereby salute our High Council. No doubt the most unique example of the art works of the people of Asia Minor is public literature. The elite masters of literature, our public poets, our public lovers, have had numerous contributions and services to the preservation and development of our cultural identity from yesterday. In 1894, Veysel the lover was born in the village of Serizalan, Sivas Province, in the village of Şilşla, Turkey, where the tradition of love is about to be forgotten. In his hometown, Veysel Karani was named Veysel because of his love and respect for him. His real name is Veysel Shatıroğlu. He's a member of the Throne of the Hand. Even though he had not received any education due to his circumstances, and had not seen the world, his culture held an important place in his upbringing, his view of life, and his philosophy. At the age of seven, she lost an eye and another eye as a result of an accident. In a poem in love, Veysel said, When I was young, I had a stroke, I had two eyes removed. I had just been touched by the age of seven, I lost my spring, and he called it my writing. He began to play the songs of other poets with the reed his father bought to play with Veysel the Lover. When Veysel first left his village, living in poverty and suffering, in 1933, Sivas joined the Festival of Lovers, bringing his attention to the poem "Turkey's Ihyastical Veysel." Veysel, who has been taken care of by Mr. Ahmet Kutsi Tecer, is a village and village teacher. Veysel is also the infrastructure of longing poems in these years. Members of parliament, in 1965, he was paid by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with a special law for his contribution to our native language, our national union. The festivals are held every year in the district of Şelşla. His English is simple, he uses Turkish with skill. It's a philosophy that puts human love, tolerance above all else. In love, Veysel has a profound philosophy. As we all know, I'm on a long, thin road, I'm leaving day and night. I don't know where I am, I'm leaving day and night. The moment I came into the world, I walked at the same time. A two-door inn, I'm going day and night. He's got the heart with his poetry. There's an undeniable truth in their lines. They always have a unifying, bonding attitude. He is a sincere, sincere, heartfelt, loyal artist to the integrity of this land. ▪ Who reads and who writes? Who would sense your Veysel name? The sheep used to ride with the wolf, He stressed that there may be differences in opinion, but there should be no cause for dissension. Loved Veysel was brought up in Anatolian culture, and his poetry had tolerance. Allah is the One, the Prophet is the Truth, Surely, the Lord is the Lord of all the worlds. Leave what you are to yourself, I'll tell you, it's time. Kurd, Turk, Çerkek, Always the daughter of Adam, Together, the martyred veteran, He is a disgrace in the truth. He is opposed to discrimination. In love, Veysel, once again in a poem from many years ago, What is Yazit? What, Redhead? Aren't we always a gardener? Our paper clip burns us, It's the only way to put it out. With its verses, it taught us tolerance, love, and humanity. Veysel, who gives the message of unity and integrity in his poetry, who cares about science and technology and embraces it, is essentially one of his words. He has a personality that can bring light out of darkness. It's intimate, it's loaded. He lived in a dark world for seventy years, but darkness remained only in his eyes, and his heart was as bright as his poems. ▪ Don't look down on me, my friend, You're gold, and I'm brass? We're from the same world. You are silver, am I hair? With his words, he insisted that men are equal, so that there should be no distinction between men. Of course, he has expressed a country poem well again. The land is ours, the land is ours, the hand is ours, I assure you, every working arm is ours. The moon star flag is ours, the stuff is ours, Say it, Veysel, boast it, praise it. Yes, time is short, and if only we Veysel the Lover had been able to weave nooses and embroiders on every square inch of this land, if we could describe it, its teachings, its philosophy, perhaps today there would not have been events that would have broken our hearts, perhaps mothers would not have cried. With these thoughts and feelings, once again, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0003par0060	Thank you, Mr Boyraz. The second non-responsive statement belongs to İzmir MP Aytun Çıray. Here you go, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0004par0064	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have finally made the martyrdom position debatable, the AKP. In power, you have managed to form a single party state by making yourself different as the AKP than you are. In fact, what you've accomplished is an empire of violence and fear. With rematch lust, with pleasure, perhaps you've forgotten this, but the truth has a tendency to come out eventually. The same concern and fear that you're experiencing awaits you because in an Arabic phrase that Mr. Prime Minister loves so much, you'll find it, you'll find it, you've found it, you'll find it, you'll find it. We know that the goal of your 4.4-lead social formatting project is to raise your own generations that will delay your account, but you won't be able to do it. It will soon be clear that you set our children on fire for your hatred. The day will come when the spear won't fit in the sack, and you won't mention his name, and it will only be startled by what you call this nation's Turkish nation. Even though my hands were broken, I didn't vote for them. Perhaps for the first time, the promise will be said so sincerely because you've been buried in sin. You'll all keep the blood of martyrs, the hypocritical politics, the bangers won't make a dime this time. Dear lawmakers, the AKP government took over a country where the terrorist organisation ended in November 2002. Our Kurdish citizens in the southeast were beginning to lose the influence of political separatism. And look at the state of the AKP's ruling today: We are now intimidated by young generations who are about to be separated from the spiritual Turkey, but what have you done? You allowed the separatist terrorist organization to regroup to confirm your own ideological beliefs. You tried to bill Ataturk and his friends for even the price of terror motivated by political separatism. You were going to shoot a lot of birds with one stone in your head. You got him. You've turned a victory at the expense of martyrs into a defeat. You've broken national morale and motivation. Now, there are those who would like to call this painting a blessing. Listen to this, and I think you should give your ears a treat for now while you still can. Because today, this ass-kissing team who said, "Let it be good for you." Tomorrow, they will say, "They have betrayed you." All that has been done has been betrayed. They will accuse you of treason. You'll hear these accusations. When that time comes, it will be remembered that you brought a court to the foot of separatist terrorists. Those who lead the court to the terrorists will answer.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0005par0068	Are you still there?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0004par0069	If there's law and he lives, he'll be held accountable. Then there will be asked behind-the-scenes questions about the hollow opening that has left a large wound to the sovereignty of this state, encouraging the separatists. In accordance with the Prime Minister's information, everyone will know that in Oslo talks, the most basic, irreparable substances of the Constitution are being transferred to the negotiating table, the Constitution is being attempted to legalize, notice, and asylum. Then it will be understood that you have taken out the special MIT Act to protect the Prime Minister. It's not fake digital documents, it's real documents that the prosecutors have. Those who once spoke of the justice of God Omar, and of Ascrisis, are now sadly silent. Now enjoy the power. Dear AKP lawmakers, you look like a 4.4-wheel drive jeep, but this jeep doesn't get you out of the gutter you created. You will be drowned by the blessed memory of the Ataturk, whose image you have taken from the websites of the state he founded. Your ignorance, your disloyalty, your infidelity will be told to future generations as a bad legend, but your hatred will remain the most in the minds. This nation will realize that its victory over the terrorist organization has been spent like a coin, and will remember that you conspire against Muslims just to achieve your goals. So, I repeat my advice: enjoy a little bit more power, because tomorrow, your account will have the shame of the lost blood of martyrs, of the martyrdom you've been selling. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0006par0076	Thank you, Mr. Cherry. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mardin MP Ahmet Turk. Here you go, Mr. Turk.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0007par0081	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as you know, we were faced with images that did not really suit Turkey at the March 18th celebration. Today, I'd like to thank the President for giving me the opportunity to tell this House what happened. When we went to Batman, really, all the streets were blocked, the police from Diyarbakır, Elazığ, and all the neighborhoods were under control. When we saw this situation, we withdrew to the City House of Guests to assess the situation with our friends. Of course, since it's a pacemaker and it's a problem with my lungs, you can joke with my friends about coming to the gas site, making it easier for the public to celebrate as much as possible. Of course, it's a high place. Our friends who know Batman House of Guests know very well, a hill that dominates Batman, and there is a cloud of gas from all sides, the city is under a cloud of gas. Hours later, my friends called, said it wasn't very good, that if I went there, maybe they could solve this problem without any pain, so I went ahead. Our bus is pulled into a field, and ten gas bombs drop in a minute, and those young people head over there as fast as they can to get the falling gas bombs away from us, and throw them in different, empty spaces. By the way, our congressman friend Nursel Aydoğan called Governor. I took the phone from him, said it was very delicate, that if we entered the area of neurosis, we could calm the mass by five to ten minutes. Of course, the Governor never returned, and the gas started to get more and more intense. We're at the point of drowning in that field. So we went to the area of the neuroses. When we entered the area on the bus, of course, 40-50 police began to stone the party bus with rocks, gas bombs, and gas bombs fell through the broken windows. We can't breathe, we threw ourselves out. As a result, as soon as I landed -- I'm already half unconscious -- a fat, medium-sized cop approached me -- I wasn't expecting anything like this -- and all of a sudden he punched me in the left eye. Of course, that's not what the governor explained. We're headed for a police car over there because there's not a single civilian there, there's not a single person, there's only cops, there's us. We did, and that cop hesitated not to take us away. A three-star commissioner gave the signal: "Take it away." Because there's a terrible situation, a friend of ours is fainting, and we're all in it. Now, of course, a policeman can be overcome by anger, he can be a fascist, he can be a provocateur; we understand all of that; but it's almost as if a governor is trying to lie to us to cover up this incident, it's a real tragedy for our democracy. Look, lawmakers, the bus is coming into the area, the footage is available; when the cops stone the bus with the stones, the images stop, I get punched in there, there's no picture, but after the punch, when we get to the car, the images start again. Now, Mr. Governor says: "Let whoever has the footage bring it." Or: "When the car comes through the field, it may have been a tremor, it may have hit something." But there are hundreds of people there, when we go to the hospital, doctors, watchers and cardiologists... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, would you excuse me for a moment?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0008par0088	If you could just give me a minute.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0009par0089	Sir, let a person who's been punched tell you what's wrong.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0010par0090	Congressmans, after that you gave it to the party, you didn't give it to the party. Please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0009par0091	But no, Mr. President, this is another matter, so be tolerant.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0011par0092	Mr. President, we're just saying give it to Mr. Turk.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0012par0093	A fellow congressman of yours was attacked, and this needs to be cleared up.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0013par0094	A congressman is facing an incident here, and this Council needs to know about it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0014par0095	Mr. Turk, Mr. Group Vice Presidents, you promised the BDP, you won't give it to us. Let them say it, let them promise it among themselves. It's not my problem.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0015par0096	Okay, we won't.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0014par0097	Here you go, Mr. Turk.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0016par0098	Of course it's bad. I don't care if someone punches me here. Despite the fact that a governor tried to cover it up and all the witnesses, and our congressman friends know the cops who threw that punch, the cop who drove us in his car, the three-star captain who served there, it's obvious. If this government wants to take it off, but if it covers it up, we're not gonna let it go, it needs to be understood. And someone like that won't be able to walk around in that area.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0017par0100	Is that your father's farm?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0016par0101	I've never been angry here, but believe me, if we take a punch in the square, this habit will spread everywhere. Please, those who committed this crime, take measures to relieve the governor's weakness and expose this incident. I don't care about a cop being punished, and I don't want anyone to be a victim, but are we really going to behave in this parliament with a responsibility to eliminate democratic values, democratic Turkey, or are we going to treat politicians with threats because they're not close to their own ideology, their own understanding? In fact, this Parliament should be on top of it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish our Governor a long life.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0018par0105	Thank you, Mr. Turk. I just want you to get well again. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Prime Minister has a thesis, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The interest in your presidency (b) on the list of interest in the article (a) and the accompanying file mentioned in Mustafa Ozturk was sent in the context of interest (c) from the Ministry of Justice (e.g. the interest in the extradition of the following article (a) since it has been reported that he is not still a member of the organization, he is a Hatay MP who has been discharged. I'll give you what you need. The case found in the Karma Commission from members of the Constitution and Justice Commission has been returned to the government. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having it read.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0019par0119	Mr. President, we just wanted a minute of your time.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0018par0120	Mr. Aslanoglu, you know my practices.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0019par0121	Sir?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0018par0122	I don't have to explain myself at every meeting. I make no promises to lawmakers outside the agenda except for three speakers off the agenda. Thank you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Bay of Saros is a very important value for both tourism and fishing. The Gulf, located in the north east of the Aegean Sea, is easily accessible from domestic and abroad. It is also remarkable that the bay, which has a seam of clear beaches, has its own cleanness and the lack of dense settlements. What's so important is that this natural beauty has recently been slaughtered day by day, where fishing has finished its stocks day after day, where many species of fish have reached the point of extinction, and other platforms have been voiced louder and louder. With respect to the protection of the Gulf of Saros, which we offer in addition, the turning of commercial fishing into amateur fishing, the opening of a parliamentary investigation under Article 104 and 105 of the 98th Turkish National Assembly for the purpose of making the constitution a national park. The coast of Thrace is the Gulf of Saros, a shoreline of clear beaches, on the coast of the Aegean Sea. The Gulf of Saros has perhaps the purest sea in the Aegean because the water circulation is high and unindustrial. The Bay of Saros is one of the three seas that cleanses itself on Earth. The Bay of Saros, although it is a bay, is one of the rare seas that may never be contaminated for many years, perhaps three times a year, and also at the same time, with its own self-cleaning and not having dense settlements around it, in February, April 15 or 18th of July. Starts the day, 25 or 28. In the process of self-cleaning the bay, which ends the day, the currents created by cold water on the bottom and hot water on the surface save all the waste and waste that is thrown into the bay. In these waters, it is possible to find both salted Aegean waters and all the fish of Marmara, which is less salty, according to the season. According to the season of these waters, there are plenty of eels found only in this region, such as cycrus, luffer, barbunia, coral, black eye, bass, kephal, octopus, and local eels. There are 144 kinds of fish growing. So that's what we need to live up to here. But unconscious hunting will end one day, especially in the direction of fishing. On a commercial scale, if fishing and hunting on a large scale can only be developed as fishing and amateur fishing, it will attract a lot of attention as a center of attraction, and perhaps people from all over the world will come here. In this sport, there will certainly be business opportunities here. In that sense, maybe we'll be able to make the Gulf of Saros a major hub in Turkey and the world. On the other hand, a natural common and control mechanism will be provided for the protection and protection of the field by limited members of small fishing and fishing cooperatives, bordering the Bay of Saros. The north-east of the Aegean Sea borders the Gulf of Saros, the districts of Gallibolu and Ecebat of Çanakkale, south and east, and the districts of Keşan and Enez of Edirne Province. The southern regions of the Gulf by the Gallipoli peninsula do not allow settlements. The settlement is mostly located in the eastern and northern regions. According to Saros Bay Istanbul, it's 250 km. It's about two-and-a-half hours away, but it's 200 kilometers from the Gate to Europe. So it's a place where tourists from abroad can arrive, where they can go. It's a great place for tourists on land. The Bay of Saros was declared a cultural and tourism development area in 2006, but no work has been done since then. So we need a hand here. It's impossible to say he's been taken care of enough. Due to double road work, expected to end in a short period, transport from Istanbul to Saros Bay will be down in two and a half hours. The most populated areas of Saros Bay settlements are Enez, Erikli and Yayla. Enez attracts not only the coast, but the ancient sites and archaeological excavation sites, as well as Lake Gala, the largest bird shelter in Turkey since Lake Manyas. In accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for reasons presented above and determined during research, we respectfully submit a parliamentary investigation into "the protection of the Gulf of Saros, banning commercial fishing, turning it into amateur fishing, naval national park." [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] [[Inconceived]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Erzurum]] 13) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Manisa]] 17) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Kastamon]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Among our citizens, who have been employed under Article 4 (C), Article 657 and Article 657 of the Council of Ministers (C), and have been known as victims of 4/C, are the citizens of the Constitution, in order to investigate, identify the problems of the recent years, and determine the solutions, and take the necessary measures of our Constitution, 98 and 105. We propose and supply the establishment of a Parliamentary Research Commission according to the clauses. Those working as workers in the privatised or closed Public Economic Initiative are placed in other public institutions with temporary personnel status as part of the 4th Article (C) of the Council of Ministers Resolution 2004/7898 and Article 657 (C) joke. Apart from those who have been in this status and retired, the 4/C employees whose numbers are now down to 8,500 -- union rights, as well as the rights of the institution they work for -- have lost their social rights. In these places, where they go, they get half the salary of the same person who does the same work, ten months in a fiscal year and two months out. Even so, their annual salary is reduced even further, and the minimum wage is reduced. In the two months when they can't get paid, the debt of 4/Cs who can't make a living and have to borrow is also mortgaged for 10 months. Due to the decline of their income, the children of the victims have suspended their education by freezing university education. 4/Cs, who can get two days paid vacations for four months, are literally forbidden to be sick. All of this has affected victims of 4-C psychologically and socially, while their respect for the state has weakened their trust in executives. Ten victims have committed suicide in the last three years, whose family patterns and mental health have been compromised because of the difficulty they face. The position and status of victims 4/C at their workplaces must be redefined, equal pay for equal work in the conditions of the day, and 12 months a year, and place health insurance on a basis, and reorganise sick leaves. In an effort to determine and determine the problems of victims of 4/C, which have been constantly bleeding and becoming a social injury, the growing suicides among the victims in recent years and the necessary measures to be taken, our Constitution is 98 and 104 and 105. We propose and supply the establishment of a Parliamentary Research Commission according to the clauses. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] [[Inconceived]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Erzurum]] 12) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Kastamon]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 19) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Adana]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We investigate the unemployment problems in our country and the developing internal migration, and propose and propose the opening and opening of Parliamental Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order for the development, the development of solutions to our people's problems, the detection of measures that need to be taken, and the consideration of arrangements for them. When we look at countries in the same category as our country, the unemployment rate seems to be much higher for us. With continued population growth, unemployment has grown like an avalanche as a result of the wrong economic policies in recent years, triggering many social events. The number of people who have lost their jobs is increasing rapidly as our young unemployed pursue work. Recent statistics published by TÜİK show that unemployment rates have increased steadily to double digits. The rising unemployment rates can also be used by employers in the public sector and in the private sector to demand more "flexible" work. This could lead to further erosion of wages and working conditions and further unregistered employment of more workers. Under the circumstances of our country, unemployment is the most important social problem facing an urgent solution. The fact that this problem is not taken seriously or postponed will upset all the balances of society. Although there has been a great deal of growth in recent years, unemployment is increasing in our country. At a point in the economy today, many of our working people are in danger of losing their jobs, as unemployed people are not having a chance to get a job. There are still high levels of labor cuts from our largest source of employment, agriculture. Our farmers, forced to leave their village, their land, flock to our great cities with hope. In short, unemployment and the lack of planning and governance of the internal immigration movement have led to the gathering of a population in major cities far above Turkey's employment capacity. If the economic infrastructure necessary for our country to survive in its place is not immediately taken, it should be known that more serious social dangers await our country in the future. In our country, in the wake of recent policies, our citizens are also trying to be abducted from agricultural production, but because there is no alternative labor force for these people, they create job problems, they increase unemployment, especially by accelerating internal migration to the western regions, increasing the intensity of social problems. Although the country's economy has been said to have grown for years, it is a strange contradiction that unemployment is growing, and today it is looking forward to a solution as our country's most important problem. It is imperative that trade unions, the representative of our state, the private sector and employees, gather around a common table and form the necessary strategy for how to produce more jobs, how to provide more jobs for more people, and what needs to be done to make what we produce look like branded products worldwide. By increasing production and employment, measures aimed at unemployment, which is our country's most important problem, and developing domestic immigration problems are required to be taken without losing time. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] [[Mersin]] [[Kütahya]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Inconceived]] [[Erzurum]] 12) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Kastamon]] 19) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Adana]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There's a motion for a gene. The motion has already been suppressed and distributed to the members. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Due to Interior Minister İdris Naim Şahin's celebration of Newroz and KESK's general banning the education law against protest activities, the excessive use of security forces in many counties, the deaths of hundreds of people and the detention of over a thousand people, we propose and propose the opening of a geneor under Article 106 of the Constitution under Articles of Institution. For thousands of years, the festival of Newroz has been a public celebration from East Turkistan to the Balkans, especially the Middle East. It has been celebrated every year in our country by mass events, especially Kurdish people, since the '90s. In 1992-93, hundreds of our citizens were killed in the area of the State of Emergency by Jitemin, dark forces, the coupkers, the gangs. Thousands of villages were burned during this concept, thousands of unsolved murders committed by criminal organizations on behalf of the state. There have been no incidents in any of the Newroz holidays that have been allowed and celebrated enthusiastically over the last ten years. The BDP continued its twenty-year political tradition, celebrating its festival in Newroz Squares for millions. In accordance with Articles 34 and 90 of the Constitution and Articles 10 and 11 of the ECHR, the right to meeting and demonstration without prior permission is one of the basic rights and freedoms within the framework of EU integration laws and reforms. During the 10 years of the EC Party's rulings, within March 21st and week, our party celebrated the festival of Newroz. In 2012, he made a decision to celebrate in 138 places, and he made plans and took many permits. Two days before the celebrations, however, the Interior Minister sent a bulletin to all provinces, announcing that all celebrations except March 21st have been cancelled and banned. However, Despite the ban, the AKP's City of Job held celebrations on March 19th, without permission from its ministers on March 18th, and last year the Ministry of Culture applied a double standard on government permits, which celebrated with the Official Newroz programme for a week. The holiday of Newroz is the holiday of the peoples, with a historical cultural dimension. And since it's not a state holiday, it's not allowed to be banned, and it's a constitutional violation. The same application was applied to KESK members who demonstrated their democratic response to the education system 4+4+4. An understanding that violates freedom of travel, commits a violation of freedom, abuses democratic responses, tortures, detains. The Ministry of Interior made an illegal decision, and many cities, especially Istanbul and Diyarbakır, have been cut off, and security forces have attacked the masses and used extreme and disproportionate force. During the attack, gas bombs were thrown from helicopters, streets, streets, streets, and there have been brutal acts of torture that have been destroyed by the public attack of security forces. In İstanbul, five times as many people were threatened by the attack on the party building, including the BDP Albanian village manager Hadji Güç, who had lost his life in İstanbul, who had been attacked by festivals in Cizre, who had been attacked by armored vehicles, Tomalar, Panzers, gas bombs and long-barred guns, and had been destroyed five times as many people were killed by the attack, hundreds of innocent women were taken into custody. The Gaza footage has been released to the media in Cizre. Official security forces in Batman province have attacked MP Ahmet Türk and injured him. There have been similar attacks on lawmakers in many counties. Although martial law is not declared the State of Emergency, the practice of the actual "War State" is carried out. He is responsible for the deaths of the Interior Minister who ordered the attack, which was banned by the general order. A totalitarian regime that threatens public peace, inflicts violence on opponents, and is responsible for the enormous pressures of a totalitarian regime, and is unauthorized, irresponsible, insubordinate with the language and the language that he uses, triggers racism, hatred, Kurdish-Turkish conflict, attacks NGOs, turns out to be the uncontrollable power to promote criminal superiors. It would be appropriate for Interior Minister İdris Naim Şahin to open a gene for the Constitution under Article 98th and 99th and 106th Article 106th. It has been presented to your knowledge. On the day of the meeting on whether or not your client will be taken into consideration, the advisory board will decide later on and submit it to your votes. The Party of Peace and Democracy has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. 29.03.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. It has been suggested that the Grand Assembly of Turkey's Agenda for General Assembly and Parliament Research be met together on Thursday (January 29,03,2012) in a joint merger of the General Assembly's 29.03,2012, under investigation of measures to ensure the freedom of the 10/76 Press during the 76th Part of the General Assembly. It's Fair Wolf, Hakkari MP who wants a word in favour of the proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0020par0323	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the Council's inquiry motion on behalf of our group. First of all, I'd like to start by giving my regards to our fellow journalists in prison, whose number is over 100. Freedom of the press is a constant debate in Turkey, a subject that is constantly discussed, and has never been a step forward. Whoever's in power, who's in power, has tried to design the press in his own way, and who's out of the design has been pressured. We know these prints. Since the '90s, our friend in the press was slaughtered in the middle of the street, taken to the unknown. The same is happening today; in the 90s, in 93, in 94, similar things are happening today. Over 70 newspapers have been closed in this country over the past three years. Each of these newspapers attempted to resume its broadcast under different names in order to maintain its own broadcast policy. The last time the Özgür Gündem newspaper was closed for a month, it was replaced by the Daily newspaper. So the decision made by the prosecution is actually a day, a day, a decision from the court to close. The next day, a newspaper can come out again, a newspaper that fills its place. See, all the newspapers from this tradition and the ones that publish in Turkish have changed names so far, and when the readers of these newspapers go to the dealership and buy the newspaper from the distributor, they say, "Whatever the name of the newspaper is, I want the daily." So the logo of that paper doesn't really mean much to the readers anymore. But there's a joke about these closures, and the reason for these closures is that you don't talk to Kurds about yourself at all. You have a problem with self-expression, you can't express yourself well, let's talk about Kurds even if it's going to be talked about. Don't express yourself to Kurds. Look at public television channels, and look at experts who talk on screens and talk about Kurds. Is a Kurdish unable to express himself or not? All right, they express themselves, but from the moment the Kurds start expressing themselves, they shouldn't talk because they express themselves outside the power and official ideology jargon. If Kurds remain in the jargon of official ideology, they can express themselves, they can conduct media broadcasts. The Kurdish newspaper, daily newspaper, has been closed nine times in the last four years in this country. Prison sentences for free press workers in this country from 1990 to today are over 20,000 years. If you don't believe me, you can apply for a court order, but they can put that number in front of you. Of course, when we say this here, we don't say this just because we think about ourselves. The censorship of the press is a problem for the image of this country. Government officials are everywhere they're going. At the latest, BBC TV has asked the minister of this country for censorship over arrested journalists and newspapers, media coverage. He said that journalists arrested are not actually journalists, they have rapists, they have robbers, they have murderers, they have members of a terrorist organization. We ask the Minister: Who are they? Who's the extortionist in all this? Who's the rapist? Who's trying to kill people? Explain one by one. Otherwise, you won't be able to frame all the hundred-odd journalists you arrested. Look, I can actually share a story about a rapist journalist with you. I'm not going to give you a name to avoid your situation, but that rapist journalist was asked to be exonerated with a forensic report; the press was put back in prison as a result of the suppression of alternative media, persistent reporting. And you know exactly who he is. Therefore, to accuse all of our friends who are in prison today just because they're journalists, in the simplest sense of the word, in the simplest terms, is a lack of conscience. Look, my friends, our journalist friend Özlem Ağus, who publicly announced the Posant scandal, has been arrested a week later for announcing the scandal of the Dicle News Agency. Look at the reason for his arrest: he's a member of a terrorist organization! And a week ago, he wasn't a member of a terrorist organization, so he was a member of a terrorist organization because he wrote about the positing scandal? He's been working for the terrorist organization. If it's journalism terrorism to publicize the guilt and the pressures of the prisons, then as a friend of yours from that profession, yes, I would, too. If you call me a terrorist, that's your business, no one will be offended by it. Dear friends, the Kurdish press, the Özgür Gündem daily Roboski have been targeted for not looking out the window of the widespread media, for sharing the massacre with the public, for sharing the violence with the public. Özgür Gündem newspaper was shut down because of its news on the Roboski massacre, and was shut down for news of the atrocities. There is another expression: none of the arrested journalists have a yellow press card or a couple of them have a yellow press card. (Dear friends, how many of the journalists in this country have yellow press cards? To the end of which Adam Ozkose and Hamit Coshkun, whom I desire to be found and returned safely to their country, are missing, you know, in Syria. As soon as possible, I sincerely desire them to return to their families, to their country. These two friends of ours don't own a yellow press card. Is the fact that they didn't have a yellow press card something that would prevent the executives of this country from taking care of them? Adam Ozkose, Middle Eastern representative of Real Life magazine. A journalist's yellow press card pen, camera, camera; no other document makes a journalist a journalist. None of these journalists were arrested, thank God they didn't have a yellow press card, and they didn't use a yellow press card to get anyone's bid, to buy a runt. We'd rather be in prison than have a yellow press card like that. Freedom of the press is a black mark on this country's forehead, and this stain must be removed immediately, and it falls upon this House. I think this Congress should be able to prevent this by setting up a research commission with a research motion. We salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0021par0337	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Rıfat Sait, Izmir MP who has asked against the proposal.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0022par0340	Mr. President, I have made a promise in Turkey on freedom of the press. I salute you all. As the AK PARTY government, we're not against ideas, everyone should be able to say and write their opinion, but these ideas should not turn into hatred, violence and blood, not disrupt our unity and unity. We want to get together in the common denominator of our moon star flag. Every corner of this holy land, watered by the blood of martyrs, is sacred, important to us. This unit's corrupting crippled thoughts are more corrupt than ideas, it's a trial. Our Prime Minister was convicted for reading poetry. The AK PARTY is the one who knows the value of freedom of the press and freedom of expression. Mr. Sadullah Ergin, our Minister of Justice, made a statement two days ago. Yes, it's not right to close the paper in Turkey, and I don't agree. Mr. Hatip has just made a statement about the closure of Özgür Gündem daily and this Özgür Gündem newspaper has been closed on charges of organization propaganda, for resisting terrorism, but I don't think it's right to even close the papers, and that's what Sadullah Ergin Minister's statement said. At the moment, the lower commission of the Justice Commission also discusss the third judicial package, which will come to parliament, will be discussed in the General Assembly, and I can tell you that the newspapers will no longer be closed in Turkey. Dear lawmakers, more liberal, democratic in the press area in Turkey, and the Press Law, which was harmonised with international law, particularly the European Convention on Human Rights, was adopted during our administration on 26 June 2004. Freedom of the press in our country is primarily organised between Articles 28 and 32 of the Constitution and cannot be censored in this regulation of the Constitution. It cannot be conditioned to obtain permission and deposit financial guarantees to build a publishing house. The statement is included. The state shall take measures to ensure freedom of press and information. With the decree, freedom of the press shall be guaranteed in the Constitution. The European Union norms on freedom of the press and standards of developed democratic states were lifted from the scope of Press Law No. 580 on July 15, 1950, and the Press Law on June 9, 2004, and Press Law on 5187 were adopted. On February 20, 21, 2003, all representatives of the press sector gathered together to discuss the problems and needs of the press, and proposed solutions led to the drafting of this law. The law, expression and freedom of the press, which has been prepared with an participating understanding and welcomed by the press community, has been a law that meets the European Union standards in order to ensure freedom of the press. Law 5187 states that the press is free in its 3rd article, titled freedom of press, which includes the rights to learn, to spread, to criticize, to interpret and to create artifacts. This Press Law and the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey have been once again stressed that the press is free, in line with the regulation of Article 28 of the Constitution of Turkey, and the restrictions imposed on the use of this freedom have been decided that it cannot be contrary to the requirements of a democratic society. There are no binding sentences for freedom. The fines, the principle of deterrentism, have been determined to be reasonable levels, and the only exception is that the fines given in spite of the judge's decision can not be converted into a binding punishment if the sentence is not issued. According to the current broadcast areas, the sanctions are divided into three groups, local, regional and widespread, and are set in this framework. Instead of being a Turkish citizen in order to become a director in charge, Turkey has been conditioned to settle down. The European Court of Human Rights of Human Rights has been removed from the local and foreign division in parallel with the courts of the European Court of Human Rights in terms of its current broadcasters. The work has been fundamentally blamed for crimes committed through printed artifacts, and it has not included responsibility and objective responsibility for the verb of another. It has been decided that it cannot be forced to testify by its owner, the manager in charge, and the owner of the work. The right to correct and answer has been granted function and activity. Laws such as prevention or distribution of distribution -- their equipment -- have not been sanctioned. The Republic's Attorney General's Office has stipulated that, in cases of difficulty in its delay, law enforcement has provided strong evidence that only three names of printed artifacts can be seized, and that there is an investigation or prosecution, and that the published work contains crimes in the law. For some time, there have been allegations that journalists have been arrested and convicted for writing. These are parallel with recent allegations that freedom of the press has been restricted in Turkey. There are various figures on the number of prisoners and prisoners in prisons that are not based on healthy data. Our Department of Justice has examined the prisoners and prisoners in prisons for what reasons they are in prison. Of the 72 arrested and convicted by NGOs, there were no records of three of them in prison, and six of them were found to have been released. Sixty-three of the names on the list are still in prison. A lawsuit has been filed against 36 of these 63 names, and a sentence against 18 of them has been issued. Investigations are ongoing on 27 people. This is important; 18 of the 63 people in prisons have yellow press cards, 45 have no yellow press cards. Of the 36 people who have been indicted or convicted, only four are in prison on charges of propaganda for the terrorist organization, which may be considered a crime committed by the press. The presence of 32 other prisoners and prisoners in prison has nothing to do with journalistic activities. That's what the Prime Minister has stated in advance. Again, as a result, we can say that 63 prisoners and prisoners in prisons have been arrested and convicted for crimes that were alleged by the press, not because of their writing and journalism activities, but because of crimes that had nothing to do with the press. For this reason, there are about 70 journalists in the prison and convicted journalists. They should be questioned whether the crimes committed or alleged were part of the journalism activity, not only in the form of figures, but should be discussed. In addition, arrests by independent judicial bodies with investigations and lawsuits are not right to be judged as being pressured by the government. In recent years, important legal regulations have been made in Turkey to move freedom of press and expression further, and the work is carried out with a liberal understanding. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0023par0351	Thank you. Turgay Develi, Adana MP, who wants a word in favour of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Develi.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0024par0355	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Just moments ago, members of lawmakers speaking before me, representatives of the EC PARTY and the BDP, both looking at freedom of the press from their own philosophy of life. Actually, freedom of the press is a subject that needs to be evaluated from a much higher capacity. What we experienced today at the door of the Assembly is 4+4+4 law enforcement workers who are waiting to protest the law, all attempts by the Justice and Development Party to force, strongly, strongly, under pressure, put society in a certain direction in the recent Civil Code debates here on this platform, which are likely to come in the coming days; all of these are the actions of the Justice and Development Party. It is very wrong to judge freedom of the press just as our friend, who spoke before me, from the perspective of whether journalists are yellow press cards, whether journalists are willing to write the news they want or not, or the fact that the EC PARTI is in Turkey, 2002, as our BDP friend, has started the day they came to power, has started the concept of freedom of press and violence in Turkey only in 1990. Of course, in their own way, both of our friends are right to approach it from that point of view. Now, we need to underline why all these problems are happening in Turkey. The nations, nations, who have not been able to complete the bourgeois democratic revolution, are forced to live through all of this because they have not completed their own internal movement, and because they have failed to complete it, they have to live on the agenda of their own nations, their own peoples, rather than expanding their living standards and the areas of freedom; they have to. Before we get to the point, I'm going to give a few examples: Mahmut Tanal had two letters to our friend from two of the journalists in prison -- one I know is a socialist journalist -- Mehmet Yeşiltepe and Erdal Susem. I'm not going to be able to talk about it here for long, because I'm preparing another speech right now, but I believe our Mahmoud friend will make the effort. Now, after the democratization of the state in all these discussions, after the state has completed its bourgeois democratic revolution with all its institutions and institutions, after the democratisation of the state is not complete, friends, we will only debate here on the results imposed on us, not on our own agenda. We can't find the right solution to the problems we face today if we forget our testimony to what happened after this coup -- without forcing our memory -- without knowing the cause of the 1980 military coup, which is a major military coup in Turkey. Why were the January 24th decisions implemented? Why was there a coup in this country to implement January 24th decisions? Now, why is the House trying to change the Civil Code? Why is the constitution being rewritten? Why is there a need to change this 4+4 law outside, to change the National Education Act, to reshape the backbone of society? There's no way we can think about keeping press freedom out of all this. It's not just a matter of a reporter putting a story in a newspaper, whether or not that newspaper publishes it or not, it's not just the closing of its column because of an article written by a journalist, it's not his unemployment. Shutting down a newspaper, closing and reopening more than once, that's not freedom of the press. Freedom of the press is a concept, like the constitution in this country, like the executive body, like the legislature. If you, the people in this country, don't get healthy oxygen in their brains so that they can think freely about this country's future right, if there's no healthy fermentation in the back of the mind, then there's a problem here. That's what freedom of the press is all about. In this country, as I have just said for years, opponents in this country, who have made politics through the official ideology of the state, who are saying that Kemalism should be removed as part of the official ideology of the founding will, are now, of course, careful to block the spaces of freedom at every stage. In fact, the whole of what we've been through is the silence of the press, the closing of newspapers, the incarceration of journalists, the changing of the Civil Code, the changing of the Constitution, the trying to change the Constitution, the trying to shut down Parliament by order of the law. The AK PARTY is trying to impose its own official ideology. Now, many years ago, Omar Çelik, MP of the EC PARTY, wrote this in the right proportion between official ideology and democracy as a journalist in 2003. Now no AK PARTY can defend or defend this idea. The official ideology is shown in us as the cause of problems with democracy because of practice. Without official ideology, political practice is said to be better. Of course, some practices inspired by official ideology have caused serious problems. Is it possible to conclude that the concept of formal ideology is unnecessary? No. As wrong as it is to neuter democracy by leaning on a narrow and strict definition of official ideology, it is also wrong to produce a political painting that has been emptied of official ideology based on this type of use of official ideology. In fact, the concept of official ideology is a guarantee of democracy. This concept reveals the code of life socially, reveals the architectural lines of public space, eliminates the ideological dam to prevent the wrong use of political power in a devoid of official ideology. It is very sad, and the idea that there is no ideological and neoliberalism in a country that can not be mentioned in any way because it now writes what it thinks, says Nuriy Mert, who is unemployed because he writes what he thinks. Democracys are not regimes that are possible to re-enact society's fundamental acceptances with every election. No social, political system can carry such constant and radical regeneration. So there are founding ideology in every society, in every country, in the system. What is it? Every system has founding ideologies. Now, with the new Constitutional debates starting with the January 24th resolutions, the EC PARTY is trying to impose its own official ideology, along with the narrowed areas of freedom, and it is necessary to consider freedom of the press within that scope. We can't perceive the whole problem if we just look at what's going on under the freedom of the press. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0025par0367	Thank you, Mr. Develi. It's Huseyin Şahin vs. Bursa MP.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0026par0370	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0025par0371	Mr. Serindağ, I promised Mr. Hawk to finish his speech, then. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0027par0373	Mr. President, thank you. Dear MPs, I have received a pledge from the press freedom and a motion to investigate the problems of our press in Turkey and the Council of Counsellors of the Peace and Democracy Party. The indispensable element of a participating democracy is an independent and improved press. An independent media is also the cornerstone of an advanced democracy. Both of these are congruent. In this direction, the EC PARTY governments, which guarantee freedom in all areas, not only in words but also in execution, also in order to ensure the freedom of our press, and work to ensure the development of the press and the implementation of thought structures as reforms. Again, our government is on its way to the European Union's integration and has dedicated more energy and resources to consolidate Turkish democracy. In this sense, our press is supported by sources from the Prime Ministerial Press-Journal and Information General Directorate, Press Administration Agency, KOSGEB and the Turkish Diagnosis Fund. Again, our Labour and Social Security Minister is doing a study on the rights to wear out and autonomy rights that were said to have been removed from the media's social security arrangement in 2008. A new study continues in our government's work to ensure that media redesigned around the world will be presented to people today under the name of the Internet media, and this will be included in the Press Law. In addition, the Association of Local and Regional TV for local and regional TV, established under a roof of local and regional channels established in various provinces and districts of Turkey, and has been assigned to a channel of TRT. In the same way, it is possible for these journalists, local TV owners, and its members to benefit from the knowledge, from the knowledge, from the experience, from the knowledge, from the knowledge, from the knowledge, from the experience of TRT. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, freedom of the press and freedom of the press are at a certain point. Press members are certainly working to enlighten the public, inform the public, but you must remember that the Republic of Turkey is an independent country of 780,000 square kilometers, with a unitary state structure; you will not have any problems if you do not enter an opening on this issue. Citizens of the Republic of Turkey live freely within the borders of the Republic of Turkey, and in the last election as collateral, they have shown that they want to provide this with 50 per cent vote for the EC PARTY government. We, the EC PARTY, declare that we do not agree with the Peace and Democracy Party's motion, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0028par0383	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0029par0384	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0028par0385	Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0029par0386	Mr. President, I'd like to correct a statement from me in yesterday's session. I'd like to correct a statement of my own when I made a promise in yesterday's session, so I'd like to speak on Article 58, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0028par0387	Here you go, Mr. Serindağ. Two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0029par0391	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have a statement from the 3rd Session on Wednesday (March 28, 2012): there is no inspiration for February 28th, the Government of Prosperity is on duty in May 1996. In May 1996, when the National Board of Education is convened, there is no Welfare Government in power, I am correcting it, there is the Highway Government, because this is Parliament, everything needs to be spoken correctly. So, I made a promise to fix it, but then it needs to be corrected: since it's the Highway Government in power, there really isn't the essence of February 28th. That's why he was gathered during the Prime Minister's Office of National Education in '96. One more thing -- I don't need to correct -- Mr. Solid became a minister two months later, which is exactly what I said here, and there's nothing wrong with what I said about Mr. Saflim. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0030par0395	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. I submit the proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0031par0402	We want roll call, Mr. President. Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Öz, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Öner, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Ediboğlu, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Çam, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Özkoç. I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0032par0406	Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the Peace and Democracy Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Aslanoglu, you have a request. (x) The statement on this statement was found on page 742, page 742, in the 84th Union Journal of the Union, dated 28/12/2012/1212.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0033par0415	Mr. President, there's a college exam on Sunday, and I wish all the young people the best. However, I'm relaying a system, especially to our Speaker of Parliament, to yourself, to all the members of the group, and to the first members of the ruling party group, the members of the group: we will take the test. We want to see our mother, our father, our grandfather, but you've seen too much of us. We'll take a test once in our lives. Moralman, we don't want to take a test without our mother and father. You don't come here as an excuse for the work of parliament. They call it. Therefore, it is my duty to convey this system of young people to me. It's our duty to be there for the kids on Sunday, at least, as a courtesy to the ruling party, young people. Once again, I present to your attention, including your witness.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0032par0416	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. At first, everyone listened to the issue, including Mr. Speaker, Vice Presidents, and the group's deputy presidents. Now, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Date: 29.03.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Counsellor's Council on Thursday 29,03,2012 (now) there is no consensus among the Political Party Groups, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Institution. Yours truly. Our Parliamentary Research proposal for the Assembly of Turkey on Thursday, 29,03,2012 (now) was read in the General Assembly on Thursday (now) for its talks to be held in the Union, which is number 10/205, which is part of the General Assembly's Department of Reconstructions, which aims to determine the problems and solutions of Bor mining. In favor of the proposal, Alim Ikm, Kütahya MP. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0034par0434	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge from the National Party of Action to investigate the problems of the boron mining and the measures needed to be taken. On this occasion, I salute all workers who have worked in the mining industry and have made significant contributions to the Turkish economy. Again, I ask God's mercy for our lost citizens in the mining sector. Dear lawmakers, why did the National Movement Party find it appropriate to bring this matter to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? It would be more appropriate to explain the question with recent developments. If you would like to say these developments, I would like to share this with you and our valued citizens on the agenda of Turkey's agenda and on March 20, 2012, because of a topic that Mr. Prime Minister has referred to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- the President of Parliament -- of the Bor Salts Trona and Asphaltite Mines, and the Processing of Nuclear Energy Ham materials, and the drafting of some of the Liniyet and Iron Fields. Dear lawmakers, Article 2 of the existing Law of 2840 and June 10, 1983, say: The search and execution of Bor salts, uranium and thorium mines is done by the State. If you say, well, what is the new bill I've just expressed? A joke has been added here, and I share this joke with you very carefully: the production and enrichment of these mines, for technical, commercial and economic reasons, the ownership of the product can be seen by third parties in accordance with the provisions of Public Admission Act 4734. -The sentence is low, but -- but if the tender period for the third party is more than three years, the demands on the matter will be decided by the High Planning Board. Dear lawmakers, what's painful is the statements on the basis of this bill. I say exactly what the reason is: there is a risk that the income expected from the mines, which are remembered from our very important underground wealth, is not achieved by the beginning of debates over what should be understood by the government's concept of operations, which is part of Article 2 (2840). Dear lawmakers, the State's Department's State Department's Office 1 when such a matter came up again in 1999-2000. It was expressed in the State's opinion on his official application to his apartment. According to the court, the obligation to search and operate boron salts under Article 2840 includes the enrichment, refrigeration and marketing of this mine. Now, I'd like to address the esteemed bureaucrats and members of the Council of Ministers with their signatures here: please withdraw your signatures if you do not have enough knowledge in this area to understand what it means by the state's hands. This bill aims to open the way for privatisation, including now enriching and refining of the pipe, by handing over to third parties in areas of the boron production facilities, where many subcontractors are already under way, rather than in the areas of the debt reserves. I already find it appropriate to bring this to the attention of the public and all of you. I'm already predicting that there will be more intense debates on this matter, especially when it comes to the agenda of Congress. Dear lawmakers, boron production is a very important production branch when considered in terms of production and employment provided in these areas today. According to today's figures, we are about to proceed to an exercise where the total number of staff employees in the Bandırma, Emet Eti Bor, Kırka and Bigadic facilities is 2,251, the number of subcontractors is 1,779, and the overall number of 4,030 people are working at the centre, and the future of 5,000 families is uncertain as to what will happen again. Therefore, I don't think it would be right to bring this law to the agenda of Congress on this occasion. The official statistics of all the developments published on the official website of the Department of Eti Mining Enterprises, as well as Mr. Energy and Resources Minister of our 2012 budget presentation, are said to have no such grounds, no narrowing down in the boron market, and improvements have gone very well. Now, on the one hand, you're going to be the most reserve owners in the world -- 72 per cent -- and your share of the market will be up by 40 per cent, and then you're going to bring up a law like this, at the risk of not being evaluated in the right and desired way. This is not acceptable, and this law will violate the relevant provisions of the Constitution, as well as the provisions of other laws under current legislation, so I will not be able to pass this concern without sharing it. See, Mr. Energy Minister says that when the share of concentrated products is reduced in exports, it is increased because of the high value of adding the share of boron chemicals and energy products. At the moment, by 95 per cent, the equivalent of boron chemicals and equivalent value products have been converted into concentrated borons by 5 per cent. It states that there have been significant increases from 2002 to 2011, and that the sale of $875m in borons has been targeted at the end of 2011. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, there's a lot of suffering going on today. These businesses and other mining enterprises suffer intense labor, which has been brought to Turkey's agenda under the name of "tashion labor" with AKP rulings. People are being left at the door for two months and three months, and the owner of a new company comes to sign this contract first. He says, "You will not receive anything from the past. " He continues to use these people as slaves. As of 1 March, none of the staff working in the main production center units, such as the Citadel and the Espey Concentrator, are staffed, and only the sergeants remain. All employees have been transferred to subcontractor work, and their salaries have been reduced, aside from the fact that they've suffered a lot of suffering, and in many of our provinces, they've increased in many mining businesses. When there are many problems that need to be resolved, it is painful that a subject that will again bring a new dimension to the issue and open the way for privatisation and pursue those resources to foreign foreign companies abroad has been moved to the public agenda in Turkey. To my fellow members of the ruling party, I say: "Put your hands on your conscience and set an example for those who place their hands on wallets. " I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0035par0451	Thank you, Mr. Light. Tülay Saşoğlu, Ankara MP demanding a statement against the proposal.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0036par0454	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party against the request of the National Movement Party to open a parliamentary investigation on this issue in order to determine problems in the area of boron minerals and refined boron production and solutions. I salute our High Council. Mr. President, we have been working as world leaders since 2005, when we came to power as the AK PARTI government, knowing the value and importance of the boron mine, both in the quantity and the proportional capacity use, and also in the development, processing and exports of the DG. Turkey covers 72 per cent of the world's boron reserve. Following that comes Russia with 8 per cent, the United States with 7 per cent, China with 4 per cent, Chile with 3 per cent, Peru with 2 per cent, Bolivia with 1 per cent, Argentina and Kazakhstan. The amount of production of boron chemicals reached 436,000 tonnes in Turkey in 2002, and our amount in 2011 amounted to 1,780,000 tonnes. Our sale of borscht compounds abroad was 186 million dollars in 2002, while it reached $829m in 2011. We're doing 59.3 percent of the exports of boron products to Asia, 25.3 percent to Europe, 13.7% to America, 1.5 per cent to the Middle East, 0.2 per cent to 2 per thousand to Africa. The consumption of the world's boron products increased to 2.7 million tonnes in the world in 2002, reaching 4.3 million tonnes in 2011. The area of Turkey's market share also reached 47 per cent in 2002, when it was 29 per cent in 2011 -- more than the increase in my production rate -- in 2011. We, especially with the Eti Mine, have gradually increased the market share with the technical and proactive marketing understanding of investment policies that Turkey has been monitoring in recent years, becoming world leader as of 2005. The meat mine is 47 per cent, which is Turkey's world leader compared to 47 per cent, while the 29 per cent cake behind it is shared between countries in Russia, China and South America. We know as a company that profits as Turkey, the Mine of Meat. The gross profit rate was 146 million dollars in 2002, while in 2011 there were 488 million dollars. The Turkish lira is 228 million Turkish liras in 2002, while 842 million Turkish liras in 2011. The Eti Mine, the Borla, is ranked at the second place in Turkey's largest thousand exporting companies in 2010 alone, in the 16th row in exports, and in the producer-exporting firms ranked at the 10th place. Between 2003 and 2011, a 21-project project on the boron was completed, which amounted to 508.7 million dollars in investments. With two ongoing projects in the process of approval, our new investment will be $530 million. Our goal as Turkey in our work on Bor is to build more economic production, new uses, new product, technological knowledge. Our strategy in our RD study is to find new boron products and new uses instead of waiting for the boron products market to grow. RAGE studies include sodium perborate, trimetyl borat, agricultural borat and zinc borat, borat, boroxide, calcium tincal, dehydrated boras. Sodium bodhurt, colemanite, and boron soda are our ongoing projects. With the production of boron and current facilities in our strategic plan 2013, the production of boron chemicals will reach 2.2 million tonnes, and in 2013, sales revenues of $1 billion have been targeted. Our goal, 2023, is to increase the production capacity of boron chemicals to 5.5 million tonnes and to increase sales revenue to 2.5 billion dollars. Some of the unrecognizable comments made in public, which we can say. Public opinion says: "The meat mine will be sold to a foreign company for $40 million. " Another rumor is that it has been sold out of the country and returned as raw material. We know that the meat mine doesn't sell raw borons. The original capital of the meat mine reached 1.1 billion Turkish liras as of 2011. There's no way a company of this size could be sold for $40 million. Speaking earlier, our deputy did not read the first joke of Article 49 of Mining Law No. 3213, under Law 5177 in 2004. The provisions of Law No. 2840 are sealed. The search and execution of the boron mines found and later found before the date of execution of this law is subject to Law 2840. The procedures and foundations of their exports are determined by the Council of Ministers. The modified substance has ensured that all boron salts will be searched and operated by the government. Dear lawmakers, in many areas, our country will be the world leader in the area of boron, as our new generations will be the leaders of the field, with the implementation of the Law Proposal for Change in some Laws and Elementary and Education Law, which we will continue to discuss today. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0037par0472	Thank you. Aykut Erdoğdu, İstanbul MP who has asked for a word in favour of the proposal.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0038par0475	Mr. President, I'm actually going to give a speech on the most strategic mineral Boron of Turkey, here on the text and on the technological horizons of Turkey, but when I see what you've just read in the text given to Madam, and I see that this reflects the opinion of the government, I'm going to narrow down the part about the technological part, and I'm going to talk about the policies and perspective of the government on our mines. Dear friends, the fate of a people is measured in whether they have strategic raw materials and technology. Strategic raw materials are scarce raw materials and are products without alternatives. Bor is one of these mines. When we look at history, iron, steel, and coal were strategic mines, but in parallel with technological development, oil became a strategic mine. Before oil became a strategic mine, there was kerosene. At that time, kerosene was a strategic mineral, and many families, such as the Nobel family, became rich by exploiting the sources of gas oil in Baku. Today, the boron mines open the same horizons to us, my friends. Borial mines are a strategic mine in food technologies, communication technologies and space technologies. Borial mines are the highest energy element at the level of the element. What we're told today is that the boron mine is very little used, but let's not forget that in current technologies, the boron mines are very little used, dear friends, and in these boron mines, the Republic of Turkey is almost monopoly because we have 72 percent of the boron mines. The Bor mines can provide uncompromising movement with the horizons it opens up in superconductor technology, dear friends. What does that mean? That's the kind of train that runs in the air that we all follow very closely. If we could develop this technology, our dream of the fast train between Istanbul and Ankara could have reached a more rational line today. The most important element of this superconductor technology is the boron mine, spoken today in the world of science. Another feature of the Boren mines is said to be the element that generates the highest force of combustion and thrust. There are various scientific articles on this subject. What does that mean, guys? This is a quadruple increase of the speed of sound today known as the highest speed, especially in military technologies, when aluminium fuel is used in space technologies instead. What does that mean? Current radar technologies, as you know, are working on the soundwave system. A rocket that moves faster than sound is impossible to detect by existing radar technology. The strategic raw material of this country is the source of this country, dear friends. The very valuable experts at the Bor Institute of Research have conducted valuable experiments, friends, but unfortunately, during your administration, many of them have been dismissed. Valuable executives who have been executed have no work on the boron. This is more important to our country than corruption and abuse, but I'll keep telling you when the law comes. Now, Mr. Speaker here said: "Our government is very important to the boron mines. " Dear friends, the meat mines run their boron mines. It was given to the Fernas company for the cover-up tenders opened by the Mines of Meat. So, how do we know this Fernas company? In 2005, Hanefi, who is currently under arrest, launched an investigation into the Anti-Smuggling and Organised Crimes Bureau, which resulted in organised corruption in the Ministry of Energy. The Fernas company, which has been identified as an actor of organised corruption and two executives convicted of tampering with the tenders and various crimes, were convicted of falsifying the tenders made by the Ministry of Energy, the tenders made at BOTAŞ. So, what did Fernas do next? He's applied for a contract on the boron, borax, bauxite mines of meat mining, dear friends. This firm applied for the defacing tender of one of Turkey's most strategic mines, the boron mines, and this company received this tender, dear friends. That's the government's view of the boron mines: giving a company that's convicted of corrupting the tender to give the capacitance of the boron mines. Tomorrow's law was already in effect, my friends, and the fact that the boron mines were actually run was already done. So when the public workers' bread was laid off, the company that was given the job was corrupting the tender. Well, couldn't the Department of Energy have prevented it? The Ministry of Energy, of course, could have prevented it, because it was convicted in its own Ministry, and it was convicted of tampering with the tender at its own Ministry. I don't blame this company, I blame the government, I blame the Department of Energy, because according to the Public Contraction Act, there should be a restraining order against taking part in the tender. Not when he was convicted, even when the evidence of the investigation was serious, that decision had to be made, dear friends, and that decision was not made. I'm sure, right now, the government's authorities are going to ask me on the phone, and I'm going to bring them their papers and show them, because I've never spoken without a document. If we evaluate our most strategic mines like this, where will they end up, my friends? The Borial mines, perhaps you don't see them, but the mines the Rothschild family is after are the mines the Rio Tinto company in America is after. If you had done the research you needed at the Bor Research Institute, if you had developed these technologies, maybe our grandchildren would have had 10 times the national income. Maybe we'd be financing this country's franchise in a boron. The same process applies to coal mines, dear friends. We closed coal mines in 2003 on the grounds that it was inefficient, and these coal mines were inefficient. The mines that were closed were then given to a number of businessmen who were close to your party, some without bidding, some without bidding. I'd like to talk about a mine that's been struggling with the tender: the Dodurga mine. The Dodurga mine, when tenders are made, is made as follows: Firms come in, they bid per ton, dear friends, I'll pay the state this much per ton I'm going to produce. The offer is made and, at that time, during the tender, there are CD records of these. While I was in bureaucracy, I watched this recording at the Turkish Coal Company -- companies who participated in the tender ask: There are two fields, one opened and cleaned, and the other closed. It's a very expensive thing to make coal indoors, my friends. It's too cheap, it's too lucrative for the firm. There's a tender called closed space, so whoever enters here will produce expensive coal from here. The firms are asking, saying, "Is the open place included here?" They say, "No, it's not included." The firms don't believe in writing, asking again, dear friends, is this open space included in this tender? They answer in writing, saying he's not a genius. A year after the tender, the company is applying to the Turkish Coal Company, and it says: "I want this place to run its open space." Before they say: "No, we can't do it because we didn't do it according to this. But then, a political magic stick touches and this mine -- the mine above -- is much cheaper -- is given to this company. The name of this company is Steel, dear friends. The owner of that hotel across the street from the House, the company that bought that luxury hotel from the Retirement Chest, the Steelers, that's how they get this mine. So, what does he do after he buys this mine? He wouldn't want this beloved company to deal with marketing, of course, government. You know how they're handing out coal to poor families, you know, poor, little hands, they're supposed to warm them up in front of the stove? I have every penny that goes to the poor with my head, but if you're getting money from the treasure when you're going to the poor and you're buying this coal at overpriced prices, there's a moral problem here, my friends. We can't feed it to our consciences in any way. Let the Minister of Energy come here, and what Aykut Erdoğdu of the People's Party of the Republic says does not reflect the truth. Let him say that I will apologize to all of you. But when I bring it here with my documents, if I prove that this tender was made this way, that the coal was taken without contract, that the price of this coal was much higher than the actual cost of the Court's reports, the Treasury reports, I ask you to fight corruption once in your ten-year power, and drop this Minister of Energy with his geneor. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0039par0490	Thank you. Søner Aksoy, Kütahya MP.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0040par0493	Reverend President, my dear friends, you know, it's about the boron. I have made a promise against the motion to investigate on Bor. When we say "bort," we think of Kütahah, you know, especially in the region of Emet, of Kütahya. The vast majority of the reserve in Turkey is located in Kütahya, Emet, around 70 per cent. Indeed, the boron is a precious mine. In the first months of 2003, when we were working on the law in the Industrial, Trade, Energy Commission -- especially with the support of our Republican People's Party friends -- they offered to make all the mines very comfortable by the private sector, to be operated, to be introduced, and to join the economy, but to remain in the state, in the Commission, this offer came from the Republican People's Party. Our groupmates agreed to it, and on that day, the law of mining was passed on condition that we remain in the monopoly of the government of the boron mine. Today, in our Law, the government owns the boron mine, so the state makes its investments and progresses accordingly. Despite all of this, the state has had greater control over mining before, and at this point only the government is dominated by the pipe. As you know, he's privatizing other coal mines and other mines, the Department of Energy or TKI or whatever, and he's handing his property over to other private companies, but that's never happened for the boron until now. There has been no incident in the era of the ownership of the borschts and the age of the licenses related to the disbursement, because the law is against it, so it does not allow it. Thus, such a process is not possible. At the moment, a process related to this is being done, the boron mines are being privatized. There is no point in an effort to cry out or call for anything, because in the Law, this decree stands very clearly, but there may be various methods in mining extraction and operation of mineral resources, and there may be various methods developed because there has been a huge increase in production on the country since we discussed the issue. Earlier, a small amount of boron mines in Turkey were accelerated in about 2003, especially only the facility in Emet. It was converted into a facility that produced 150,000 tonnes of boric acid. Today it is a facility that produces 500,000 tons, and in the next few years it will be a facility that produces 750 tons of boric acid, the boric acid processing plant in Emet. The government will do it, but in the meantime, the government can use some subcontractors. As Mr. Scholar Light spoke, he said, "There is such a change in the law as long as the estate remains in its possession." So what's wrong with taking some elements from the private sector, which supports the development of this business, both its technology and its disbursement, provided it stays in the state? What harm can it do to our fellow workers who work there, anyway, to receive the necessary workers from Emet and his surroundings? At this point, there is no incident in terms of employment or any way that the government is out of your hands.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0041par0497	What are you going to do if the Bor business is privatized?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0040par0498	On the contrary, we founded the Bor Institute in the same years, in 2003, 2004, to make more productive, more efficient, more efficient, and more productive products that we're going to make from the board, to make supplements, derivatives, and new technological advances, you know. This Bor Institute, which we founded at Middle East Technical University, was also founded by a law, where scientific studies are actually being done...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0042par0499	During the AK PARTY?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0040par0500	So, 2004, 2005, since it was founded in those years, the period of the EC PARTY is already there, there is no other term.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0043par0501	You've got to underline it, so underline it as an AK PARTY period!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0044par0502	But the main thing is, scientists were relieved of duty during your time.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0045par0503	The guys just didn't get it!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0046par0504	So there's no other term, since 2002, the AK PARTY has been in power. Another ten years will continue with the permission of God. At this rate, it's not appropriate to make it look like something that isn't happening by twisting the facts.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0044par0505	Sir, no one is twisting the facts, let the minister come and we'll talk to him, you don't know what this is about, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0046par0506	For example, a friend of ours came in earlier, before June 12th, when he was building an airport in Rydarhisar, said: "This will take place on June 13th." We went there and said: "If it leaves, we will resign too." As a matter of fact, the airport is being built right now, the airport will open at the end of this year. Friends, what good would it do to distort a truth or cover it up with a lie? What good can it do to whom?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0047par0508	What happened to Bora, Bora?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0046par0509	The opposition won't do any good.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0048par0510	I'm lying?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0046par0511	I mean, whoever's saying it...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0048par0512	No, Minister...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0046par0513	If the truth is covered up, its name is lying. In Arabic, the word lying means covering up the truth.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0048par0514	Okay. Mr. Secretary, here...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0049par0515	Look, you're talking back to everyone, you're reading the papers. We respected you from your age. You came back and called our friend a liar. That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0050par0516	Dear Private, please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0051par0517	I'm not calling anyone a liar.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0049par0518	You read the paper there all day...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0051par0519	Whatever I read, it's none of your business, mind your own business!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0052par0520	Mr. Aksoy, please address the General Assembly, do not talk to each other.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0049par0521	Why do you call our friend a liar?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0051par0522	Mind your own business, stay out of it!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0049par0523	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0051par0524	Stay out of it, learn to listen first.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0049par0525	Do you know how to listen! You've been talking about it all day!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0053par0526	Dear Private, please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0049par0527	You sit there talking all day!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0054par0528	You're taking turns coming to the House.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0055par0529	Guys, we're the owners of the boron thing.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0056par0530	What about the owner...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0057par0531	What do you mean it's you and not us?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0055par0532	The matter of Bor is a matter of our own.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0058par0533	You're always talking out of your mouth. How rude!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0055par0534	We have the Bora, the government has it, and in our country, the Boron is going to export $1 billion today.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0059par0535	You don't know what a pipe is!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0055par0536	The mining industry has increased exports.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0060par0537	You read five newspapers a day, you make small talk.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0061par0538	Dear Private, please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0055par0539	Before everything was compliant, everyone was calm...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0060par0540	Why are you turning our band on?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0055par0541	...no one had ever done anything.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0062par0542	Master, you've mixed up the pipe with the bottle!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0055par0543	Guys, let's not talk about changing the facts like this, let's just say what's right, I'm telling the truth. What's the point of saying "privatizing" when you say "Bor" in the law? No follies, no eggs!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0063par0544	Businesses get special, businesses.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0055par0545	What you're talking about running, what you're talking about privatizing? He can use subcontractors on the condition that he stays in the government, which is used by everyone.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0063par0546	Telecom is also owned by the government.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0055par0547	Is it wrong to use subcontractors? Don't use Tabheron either. If you say so, he'll become the allame of statehood.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0063par0548	Is the property of Telekom in the state? So what's going on? Who runs it?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0055par0549	Guys, we're in favor of the free market economy, the private sector.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0064par0550	You're not going to mix privatisation with follow-up!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0055par0551	The private sector will be involved in everything.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0064par0552	You're confusing privatisation with a sequel!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0055par0553	Look, from the boron derivatives that you're not interested in, colleges are now making cutting tools, colleges are producing non-burnable materials. At the end of our study at the Bor Institute, we now have hundreds of friends at our university working on 15 improved projects. There wasn't anything like this before. This is the result of a study by the EC PARTY. The AK PARTY has had this job and it's grown. You probably didn't even know about the boron before. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0065par0556	Thank you, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0066par0557	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0065par0558	Here you go, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0066par0559	Mr. President, during the speaker's speech, he spoke to me in words I didn't want to repeat to myself. If possible, I'd like to make this clear from the stand.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0065par0560	But we listened to the speech from your own...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0066par0561	The liar said, Mr. President, don't do it!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0067par0562	You're lying. He said, Mr. President. You're lying. He said.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0066par0563	▪ He called me a liar.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0068par0564	Mr. Aslanoglu, Erdoğdu represents himself, we listen, we talk to each other.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0069par0565	He called us liars, we are witnesses.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0070par0566	He said he was my witness, the president.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0068par0567	And what did Mr. Erdoğdu say?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0071par0568	The liar said, Mr. President, what more can he say?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0068par0569	Did he call your name?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0071par0570	Sir?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0068par0571	Did he mention your name?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0071par0572	When the liar spoke, not all the people here panicked in vain.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0068par0573	What did he say?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0072par0574	The speaker is lying.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0071par0575	The speaker is lying.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0068par0576	You said you didn't want to repeat it. What did he say? If the Congressman told you to do it, then repeat it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0071par0577	The speaker is lying. He said, Mr. President. Please, Mr. President, this really doesn't look good on you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0068par0578	Mr. Erdoğdu, I'll give you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0071par0583	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I didn't come here to stress this conversation. I came here to stop an injustice. Now, this is our friend...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0073par0585	Oh, baby!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0071par0586	Oh, my child! There is no brother! Okay? I'm defending the rights of the orphan, defending the rights of those cubs. Okay? Don't bother me. Oh, my baby. Oh, my baby. I know you well. Your brain isn't enough for them! The Minister of Energy will be here with his bureaucrats...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0074par0589	The clerk told me about the pipe, he didn't do anything else.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0071par0590	It's everybody's money, it's the public's money. It's not the money of 550 people here, it's the money of 75 million people. I'm the opposition MP, it's my job to ask for this account. Those documents are all of our documents. Those papers will open, and we'll open our papers. If I've lied, if I've said something unrealistic, I mean, if no non-profit area has been included in the tender, if no non-profit has been purchased, if this company has not been given 110 trillions, plus 130 trillions, or 230 trillion jobs, then I apologize to this chair. It's a great thing to apologize for me, but I know it's real. For him, to call this struggle a lie is just to stand by those who stand up for it. I remind all of you that in the face of injustice, the mute devil is silent in the face of corruption. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0075par0593	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0076par0594	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0075par0595	Yes, Mr. Light, what did he say about you, sir?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0076par0596	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker has made statements regarding privatisation that have no actual lining.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0077par0597	Mr. President, is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0075par0598	What are those expressions?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0078par0599	Yes, he will say, Mr. Ahmet.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0075par0600	One second, Congressman, please... Mr. Light is out front, talking, talking. You don't all have to be involved.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0079par0601	We heard it, you didn't hear it. You don't listen, then you yell.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0080par0602	I talked about the preparation of a bill for privatisation of the Bor mines, and he said there was no such thing. I need to make a correction.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0081par0603	He heard me, too.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0082par0604	Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0083par0606	Mr. President, this is not the way to do it!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0084par0607	What kind of procedure is that?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0083par0608	Did you promise to tease the speaker? Is there any bullying or not?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0085par0610	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you again. Of course, thank you. He made some statements to our congressman. Mr. Congressman has mentioned that such a thing has nothing to do with privatisation, I respect, but his opinion has been given to you in the general grounds of this bill, which I have not just read, and I will read to you a statement and the reason for the material, and you will decide what it means: you will be able to use the method of service in the production and enrichment process, based on the basis of which the authorities will be taking the authority of public economic initiatives on the basis of which the authorities will receive or by which they will receive the property.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0086par0613	No, I don't.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0085par0614	You'll see what happens. Do you know how your horn was produced in Kütahya, my dear brother or Turkey? A number of differences in harmonisation, a number of hesitations, are allowed to be carried out through service. What is this part of the work? To state that it will not be privatized while the country's employees are screaming right now... that this is a bill designed to lead a number of private sector representatives who are preparing there, Congressman, and you know better than I do, but then we'll see.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0086par0615	He's not in Congress!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0085par0616	I'll see you then. Right now, you know better than I do that there are people screaming about this subcontractor system in mining businesses, in a very serious sense. Just a month ago, in Bronzebilek, 200 people were left in the square, and ran away, subcontractor.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0087par0617	The government paid for it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0085par0618	Here's the subcontractor.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0087par0619	The government paid for it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0085par0620	Congressman, you'd better get a say in this. The government paid subcontractors, but they didn't pay workers. Mr. Congressman, go find out from them what the situation is with the subcontractors who raided you in Kütahya.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0087par0622	The government paid for it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0085par0623	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0088par0625	Thank you. I'd like you to vote...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0089par0629	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0088par0630	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Öz, Mr. Öner, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Ediboğlu, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Akinci, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Çam, Mr. Aksinger, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Kuğoğlu, Mr. Akar, Mr. Özkan. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment, which I shall have to read and process and present to your votes: 29.03.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council's meeting Thursday (January 29,03,2012), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. Ankara MP Izzet Cet and his friends suggested that the Parliament Research Front, which was given on 21.03.2012, should be submitted to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (315 rows) to "the number of pension datas that were not present in the SGK, waiting for the pension payment to be completed, to be read in the number of people who expect to be old for their pension, their problems, their solution alternatives, to establish a database for the SGK," and to be submitted to the General Assembly's information on Thursday (315 rows). Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP who has asked for a word in favour of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0090par0652	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have been promised our Republican People's Party group proposal. I salute you all. Friends, what we're trying to bring up today is something that you've been delivered to all of you in the squares during the election and today as congressmen through telegrams, telephones, or social media. Everyone knows very well that this community, known in public as pensioners, is now quite a victim, even more miserable than the victim. Their victims and their misery, not because of their joblessness, not because of their inability to function, but because of their misery, there are many of them in this parliament, without thinking about the consequences, just as the AKP Group did. This law, known in public as Law 4447, takes more than a minute to increase age in retirement, whose short name is called unemployment insurance, but I won't mention his long name. The talks of the Law began on 12 August 1999 and ended on 25 August 1999. Then the law came into effect on September 8, 1999. Although its name began as the Unemployment Insurance Act, the law was a law that redistributed employees' pensions, pension conditions. The arrangement brought in that day increased the number of days of retirement, working age, and premium pay. In those days, the main opposition mission was at the Favourite Party, where you were continuing, and in those days, our current Minister of Labor, again your Vice President Salih Kapusuz, and in those days, your President-General, Recai Kutan, leader of the Favourate Party, were taken to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court, in February 2001, dismissed the gradual passage of this law by violating the principle of equality of the Constitution, and introduced a six-month transition process, allowing the re-organisation of the law in that transition process, but the day's rule brought it back to the border in May 2002, narrowing the transitions between the ranks and entered into force through parliament. Of course, it was a disturbing spread for the staff. Many employees, employees or civil servants, have found retirement because they have no confidence in the government, especially those who run the state, and many have retired. Many people also had to leave without filling their pensions, as they avoided the economic crises of that day and the frequent changes in the social security system. Of course, before the law, you know, 25 years of service in retirement made it possible for women to retire at thirty-eight, forty-three years old for men. Was that true or not, that's another matter. Of course, in today's terms, it's unlikely to defend that. But when that day's law put the age of retirement into effect for fifty-eight women, sixty men, all of you, including today's Labour Minister, cried out for retirement in the grave, and so did the workers. But in your time -- don't forget -- as if you're exploiting this, you've raised your retirement age to sixty-five, which is another matter. What I'm really trying to say is that we've made a law in this House, tens of thousands of families today are miserable. So on the one hand, changes to the social security system have been made frequently, and on the other hand, economic crises in our country, which are the result of recession in the economy, have come to a position that hits workers every time. In that law, those who completed 25 years of service and completed the number of premium paydays, and the worker left because they had the right to leave their jobs, to retire, because they had the right to retire, because they had no confidence in the state and the administrators; and the officers did not get their pension bonuses, but they also left their jobs because they filled the bonus day and the working period. Today, those who were separated as workers ate their severance and reached a certain level of age, and they completed their compensation, and they found no work, and their children were unable to provide education, health care, and care. Those who left as officers didn't get a bonus, they didn't get a job, and they're in no position to benefit from their health benefits, and they can't even get their children treated. It's really not just the problem of the Republican People's Party or the opposition party in our country, it's the problem we all have in common, we all have relatives. I proposed a law to the Speaker on October 26th to bring this matter up, and I asked that the matter be resolved, of course, if it wasn't very relevant. This time, through social media, our citizens who live in this retirement age often call us to know the outcome, so I raised a question to the Minister of Labor. I forwarded the questions in January. ▪ How many retire by filling the year of service and the number of premium paydays predicted by the procedure, but waiting to provide age conditions so that the pension can be tied? I asked the Ministry what are their distributions according to Article 5434, 506, 1479, 2925 and 2926 in terms of social security legislation that they are bound to? Friends, I'm getting you to read the Ministry's response, the Ministry says that there is no data in the Social Security Agency's information processing database regarding the information distribution of the person who deserves to retire by filling the year of service and the number of premium paydays predicted by the contract, but who is waiting to meet the age requirement for the pension. Now, you have to ask, friends, is the SGK doing these tasks manually? I mean, the SGC doesn't keep records, doesn't do the actuarial calculations, doesn't know the number of employees, doesn't know the number of pensioners, but how does he do it? Shouldn't you be asking what the Department of Labor stops for and what he does for a living? Now, we said, "The Ministry of Labor has no database, the SGK has no database, so we asked him about the financial portal, he can't answer, so this mission falls into the legislature. In 1999, the body passed a law, devastated its citizen, condemned it to hunger, poverty, poverty. It's the legislature that's going to end the conviction again. So since the SGK does not have a database, let's set up a research commission, since the Ministry of Labor does not know about it. A commission from parliament, which consists of friends who know these things, will prepare a database for the SGK, as well as provide guidance to the Ministry of Labor, as well as to address the problems of our poor, disadvantaged citizens. So our proposal to set up this commission is to solve a problem, rather than actually make a profit. In this regard, I visited Mr. Labour Minister, and I said, "You may not consider a proposal or a motion for research from the People's Party of the Republic or any other opposition party. So give a member of the AKP a two-line motion on the matter, and we'll sort it out. Let's take a look at it. He said, "Let's have a look at it." But the minister hasn't made a sound since then. Dear friends, I mean, I don't want to do polemics. This is the speech of Mr. Kutan. This is the speech of the Minister of Labor as this law comes out. Let me read the Minister's sentence. The bill is a bill contrary to the facts of Turkey; it is not the product of scientific analysis; it is a bill designed according to the logic of profit and loss; it does not consider social concerns; it is made without reviewing the state of the citizen. When does he say it? On Monday, August 16, 1999, the First Year of the First Legislature, says the Minister of Labor. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thirty seconds, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0091par0664	Mr. Cetin, please.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0090par0665	I'm going to leave a message, I'm going to leave.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0091par0666	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0090par0667	Dear friends, this problem is a problem that we should all be interested in, not a problem that can be rejected. We're recommending a commission. The establishment of this commission will be a commission that will answer our citizens' expectations, their questions, and I ask you to vote positively, and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0091par0670	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. Idris Baluken, Bingol MP, who has asked for a statement against the proposal.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0092par0673	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your delegation. Of course, we have taken a solemn oath against the proposal, but I will continue my speech in favour of the proposal. First of all, before I speak, at this time when we're discussing an arrangement for pensioners, there's an intervention in the Tandoğan Square with gas bombs, batons, and pressure water. I'll leave it to you to appreciate how much a sense of power that has no respect for workers can edit about pensioners. There are lawmakers in the area during this attack, and there are members of this Parliament, and while they are being interfered with, the police in particular have been subjected to disproportionate violence against the group in which MPs are involved. Right now, two of our fellow lawmakers here are sitting in these lines of Parliament, their superiors soaking wet, trying to do their job. I'd like to make a suggestion to you first: stop taking refuge behind the police with such bans, with certain illegal decisions. So if you're doing politics, if you're standing up for these policies, go to those areas as part of the policies you've taken. So, for example, you ban fucking neuroses, and if the president of a party that received 70 per cent of the vote in Diyarbakır is trying to be blocked by police officers in the area in Diyarbakır, then the conflict here is wrong. Do not address the police officer with the MP or the president, bring the AKP's district deputies, where they can come to us, to the public with their own policies, where the MPs, to the elected will of the people, and to the workers of Tandoğan Square, before they deliver gas and bombs to the workers. I'd like you to consider this proposal. Of course, one of the most important constitutional principles that we can all agree on is that this state is a social state. From the founding of the Republic to this day, this principle, mentioned in Article 2 of the Constitution, in fact, has had serious difficulties with its physicalization in the social level of flesh. Many of the governments that have come to this day, at the point of meeting the requirements of this social government, they have not been able to meet the sensibility of the oppressed parts of society, the oppressed parts of society, the elderly, the women, the young people, the workers, the workers, at the point of defending their rights. In the last ten years, the AKP's policies, which have been in power, we see that there are a number of practices that prioritize labour exploitation in the form of a cheap labor force, which generally gives capital and labour relations an advantage over capital. Over and over, we've brought a number of problems here to solve problems at a social level, on a social level. And when we brought it here, we tried to expose as many pictures and paintings as possible that the country had lived in that sense. However, each time we brought it in, friends who came here to tell us that there was no problem with social security or social policy because of the AKP's vote rate. Now, look, this is the clearest indication that social security isn't going well, which is what we call a black hole in social security. The social security deficit, which was 20.2 billion in 2003, rose to 54.6 billion in 2010 with a total 52 per cent increase. When we consider the 2010 data alone, considering that the budget deficit is 39.6 billion, the social security deficit is 54.6 billion, we may have an idea of how successful this social security policy or economic practices are. Now, there are some elements in the policies that we have to consider in a negative direction and in a positive direction. In the negative direction of economic policies, the national economy itself and the oppressed parts of society have a plus -- we don't deny it -- and there's a seriously, day-by-day rich club that opens up its scissors. Look, during the AKP government, the number of ultra-riches has increased 400 per cent, and in the old currency, the number of trillionaires has increased from 8 to 32, so we're dealing with a policy that will increase the wealth of some of the wealthy community every day, as the percentage of the workers' share of the budget falls from the overall income. Dear friends, in terms of income distribution justice, we are now in the last five places in the world. In particular, the richest 20 percent of the population currently dominates 47.6 percent of the average income, while the poorest 20 percent dominates 5.6 percent of all revenues, so the scissors are now about 10 times as high as lips. Look, we've told each of you every time that any number of data that TİKİK is not reliable, that the government is trying to please the government, but -- if we even bring these untrustworthy figures of TÜİK (TİK) here, right now, 13 million people live under the poverty line in the country. Of course, we can replicate all of these examples, but today, of course, we'd like to share with you a few concrete problems with pensioners in order to find a solution here. We've been talking over and over again about the socioeconomic situation that our pensioners are currently in. We've evaluated some of the indicators, some of the data, some of the data that you've mentioned, that don't reflect the truth in any way, based on the money that pensioners have taken. We've shared over and over again how many percentages of retired doctors, teachers, workers who have retired in this country feel the need to do a side job. Even this painting was clearly enough to express the problems that our pensioners experienced today. However, in the CHP Group's motion, there are three fundamental problems that are particularly prominent, three basic problems that are facing a solution. We've had some legal proposals for these three basic problems: The first was the case of those who could not retire because of their age. Second, it was the case of those who couldn't retire because they were old enough and didn't have a bonus day. The third was the case of those who could not retire because of the new law, which had been passed by the AKP (AKP) and its age. These three conditions that we're talking about are of great interest to the pensioner of a large percentage. In particular, we know that the arrangement for this age brought into retirement, called retirement at the cemetery, has brought serious losses. We expect a sensitivity from the entire Assembly at the point of immediate arrangements and the removal of the victims of our pensions. Therefore, we would like to suggest that we vote in favor of this proposal. I'd like to point out from here that taking at least some palliative steps to improve the situation of our pensioners is one of the important tasks in front of this Assembly at a time when the social state principle is being destroyed every day by paying for health, financial education, the most basic public services to be paid for. I especially want to point out that when we were kids, there was an ad published in TRT. In this ad, the taxes you pay -- roads, water, electricity -- return to you. It's called, unfortunately, with AKP's policies, the taxes that we now pay with the sustained neoliberal policies, the taxes that go back into the pockets of the investors and warlords, and the scraps that are left are being distributed as a social aid to silence the poor and the workers. I expect the House to support the prospect of fixing this painting, especially this proposal for this victimization of our pensions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0093par0693	Thank you. In favor of the proposal, Mustafa Kalaycı, MP of the Conium. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0094par0697	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. One of the most important goals of social security policy is to support the security networks it creates among people and the fight against social inequality. In this sense, the state is obliged to set up a social security system that includes equal rights and obligations for all individuals. In our country, the right to social security is subject to the Constitution and guarantees and is under the obligation of the state. Many of our citizens, however, are experiencing problems due to social security practices. According to the legislation that was in effect on the day they started, the premium payment for retirement was the number of days and the period of insurance, but the fact that they had the right to retire in other words has also victimised many of our citizens. We have citizens who have been robbed of their rights, who are in retirement, who are looking for their rights, who are waiting for a solution from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, asking for an arrangement that will ensure that their victims are eliminated. Although the National Movement Party has earned its pension rights, pensioners must be granted pension. In this regard, he also offered the necessary legal proposals and motions to address the injury. In fact, earlier this month, the offer we made during the talks of the law, which was adopted at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which was called the NGO, was proposed by the AKP Group's votes, and was rejected by the AKP Group's votes, regardless of the number of days and years of service required for retirement, according to the legislation that was insured before 2000, when they were in effect. Today, we support the CHP's parliamentary research motion to investigate the problems of pensioners. Dear lawmakers, the two main problems of the social security system are the failure in active-passion balance and the increase in budget deficits. In 1992, retirement was one of the main factors in reducing age and opening the path to early retirement, rapidly disrupting the active-passive balance of the social security system. The decline in the active-passive scale of the social security system has been going on for years, and many governments have implemented various applications to correct this negative structure. One of them is the age requirement for retirement. Basically, at the age of thirty-eight or forty-three, the burden of retirement is impossible for any country in the world to lift the social security system. There is no such practice in any country in the world. It's a fact, it should be accepted by everyone. However, the removal of the rights of a citizen is incompatible with the rule of law, and there is no such practice in any legal state. This is another fact that must be accepted. We must not dwell on what has been done in the past, we can't get anywhere, we can't get anything out of it, we must consider the arrangements made in the past on the terms of that day. If a mistake has been made in the past, it is equally wrong to not knowingly correct this mistake until now. So we need to look to the future and find a way to deal with the current injustices. On the day of his employment, according to the legislation, our citizens, who completed the amount of insurance and premium paydays required for retirement, were faced with paying a health insurance premium, as well as a pension. If you don't give the health insurance premium, you can't use health care. It's unfair to say, "You can't take advantage." In this respect, Parliamental research should be conducted to determine the problems and victims of our elderly citizens in retirement and to determine their solutions. Citizens in this situation should be granted pension without waiting for the age requirement because it is their rights earned. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to bring up another important matter here. Despite our coming to the end of the third month of 2012, the public employee, whose number is 6 million, has not yet been given a salary increase in the year 2012 for victims of 4/C, pensioners, persons of sixty-five years, disabled, veterans, martyrs, village rangers and mayors. For the first time, the AKP government has won the title of government, which condemns these people to a free salary. The AKP government, which passed the law it requested within a day from the Turkish Grand National Assembly, has yet to manage an arrangement that will solve the problem of nearly 20 million citizens with its families and make it smile. While such delays and emergencies are involved, it is clear how the AKP government is pursuing a rundown, still prioritizing the law, which will take effect in five or six months, without any urgency today. If there's a proposal or a proposal, they're the first to meet in Parliament. Do you think there's another explanation for the fact that the bill, which grants public officials collective agreements, has been taken to the top of the agenda and is still not discussed? The AKP government will set another record on the 15th of next month, and for the next four months, it will go down in history as the government, which has not given a raise to its official, its pensioner, its intrinsic moaner. At this rate, he'll keep breaking his own records. As the AKP government does not give 2012 salary increases, it causes the monthly melting of our narrow and fixed-income citizens with the hikes it puts into effect. The Justice and Development Party (AKP) government has imposed a similar persecution on our nation with high rates of increase. Every day, the citizen faces news of a new raise. Payments under the name prescriptions, medicines, boxes, and participation of employees and pensioners when receiving health benefits have now become an important part of their monthly return. Public employees, victims of 4/C, pensioners, persons of sixty-five-year-old age, disabled, veterans, martyr relatives, village rangers and managers have been faced with more than the salary hike they will receive before they receive the 2012 salary difference. According to the results of March 2012 of the Turkish-History Research on Hunger and Poverty, a family of four has to spend the amount of food needed to be healthy, balanced and adequate, so the hunger limit is 954.40 lira. With food spending, the total cost of other costs required for clothing, housing, transportation, education, health care and so on is $3,108, 78. According to these data, all pensioners, widows and orphans are under the poverty line, and all near the age of starvation. The AKP government has always given pensioners hope, but it has constantly deceived and disappointed pensioners. He told the pensioners they were getting a bank promotion, but he didn't give it to them either. Although he promised to compensate the pensioners for their injustice, our pensioners were also deceived. The law has not taken into account the inequality between the SEC pensions after 2000 and the retired BUG-KUR pensions, as well as the retired SEC and BUG-KUR pensions. The rights of pensioners covered by the law were also envisioned in 2013, and their rights were seized for another year. I'm saying we're backing the parliamentary investigation, and I'm paying my respects again.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0095par0711	Thank you, Mr. Kalayci. Now, if you'd like to take a stand against me, you've reached Süzeyya Sadi Bilç, Isparta MP.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0096par0714	It is this House's duty to find solutions to hungry people. They're all hungry.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0097par0715	Mr. President, I have made a promise to you by the Republican People's Party Group against the motion to investigate, and I salute you all. The research proposal, proposed by CHP, is related to the pension system and the chairman of the Social Security Institution, one of the institutional actors of this system. The proposed age of retirement is essentially increasing by years, and in the process, the number of people who have completed the number of bonus days and who have failed to complete the age requirement has failed to benefit from the health system, talking about some problems related to the production of data related to the pension system and a need to address these problems. I'd like to continue by briefly explaining to you the changes to the retirement regime during our rule. As you all know, the original arrangement for the extension of retirement age in the pension system was made in 1999 by Law 4447, adopted during the 57th Age of Government. With this law, pension age is up to 58 in women and 60 in men. Many other regulations related to the law and the social security system were also made. The age requirement for retirement, which constitutes one of the grounds for the motion, is not an arrangement brought with this law for the first time. Looking back on the subject's history, we see that the age requirement was first introduced by Law 3395, which was adopted in 1987. The provision for the age condition was then lifted from the application by Law 3774, which was later adopted in 1992. Thus, those who have paid the premium due date have the right to retire, while women have been retired at 38, while our men have been retired at forty-three. As I've just stated, in 1999, during the coalition administration, the age requirement was rescheduled by legal regulation, and the level system was envisioned for current employees. In summary, what I call the level system, the pre-1999 ministry highlights the age when citizens have to wait for retirement. This pre-government arrangement was taken to the Constitutional Court, and some levels were cancelled by the court in 2002, considering the institution. Under the Constitutional Court's ruling, a new law was needed to be passed, which also took into account the Constitutional Court's decisions, and thus passed Law 4759 in the same year. The Constitutional Court's decisions on the matter have been taken into consideration after the annulment of the former law, and Law 4759 has been passed. The age of retirement is divided by 1999, and pension age for citizens who were employed before 99 is increased between 40 and 58 in women and forty-four to sixty in men. For those who started work after 1999, women have been identified as fifty-eight and men as sixty. The amendments to retirement age in the past years have been taken into account and have been implemented to determine the age of retirement, depending on the length of the person's service and the legislation under which he is subject. From the beginning of my speech, I was just over the age of retirement. However, what we call the age of retirement is just one of the elements in the social security system. As with everything else, reforms, called social security reform, have been looked at from a holistic point of view during our rule. Social security reform is a process that includes extensive legislation that concerns not only the present and the past of our country, but also its futures. Now I just want to briefly draw the general framework of this broad process. The main framework for reform studies is Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510, which was adopted in 2008. The pension regime, which has previously been established under three separate titles -- as the state-owned term -- is the SEC, BUG-KUR and the Retirement Chest -- has been raised under a single title. Instead of different insurance conditions for different legislation in the new system, the general health insurance model covering all citizens has been adopted and has begun implementing the system today following a specified transition period. The process of social security reform has been completed by negotiating with the participation of NGOs and large populations from preparation to adoption of the law. The most critical part of the system, brought by our opposition friends by Law 5510, is the age of retirement. The age of retirement and retirement is defined as sixty-five years old for men and women, but one thing needs to be well understood: the social security system is a process that spans many years and needs to be prepared with broad projections. The change in this system to benefit certain segments in the purpose of the election will result in public damage, which will eventually be irreversible and affecting the entire state. And what we're getting at is the best sign of this process. In the 90s, arrangements for women to retire at the age of thirty-eight and for men at the age of forty-three have become a system that keeps the social security system open and loses the quality of sustainability. The reform in 2008 and the 65-year-old limit for retirement age in particular have been determined as a result of very detailed calculations. In this scope, especially the needs of Turkey's social security system and international standards that exist in this area have been taken into account. Once again, the 60-year-old limit of our power has been created not by populist rhetoric, but by the work of bureaucrats and technical experts in this area. This limit is essential and important for the resuscitation of the system. The institutional legislature of social security reform was carried out by Social Security Agency Act 5502, which was adopted in 2006. The chairmanship of the Social Security Institution established by this law is now under a single roof of activities carried out by three institutions, but at this point, there should be no mistake, as there was a new structure created by the Social Security Agency in 2006. This institution was created by the collection of past savings of the SEC, BUG-KUR and Retirement Board General Managerships, which served and specialized in their fields in previous years. As noted in the research motion, I do not agree that there has been any setback in the production of data and statistics by the Social Security Agency. I disagree with the statement that there is no data. We know that relations within the SEC, BUG-KUR and Retirement Board began to gather in electronics after 2000. Thus, there is information on the service before this date, but it is not in the electronic medium. In the application, when a citizen is applying for retirement, the citizen's file is examined by the institution's staff, so the number of days of service and bonuses is calculated. So, contrary to the motion, there are data available in the SGK, but not all of them are in the digital environment yet. Social Security Agency is conducting a project called the Social Security Integration Project, and aims to gather all social security data in one pool. If we look very briefly at the activities intended for this project, the way existing social insurance applications are designed to integrate with each other, in line with institutional standards, with other institutional applications; the preparation of automation structures in the records of the transferred institutions in the databases; and the identification of the structures of each institution's database and inclusion of pensions from others; the development of information sharing of information that is needed by the institution and external shareholders; the development of public health insurance premiums and management; the development of automutation structures in order to determine and to ensure management; the development of the development of pensions and the development of other employeesal rights under the framework; the development of the institution and the development of the institutional framework; and the development of the development of social structures that is needed by the institutional structures; and the development of the institutional structures; the development of the overall health insurance premiums; the development of the development of the institutional structures; the development of the institutional structures; the development of the institutional structures; the development; the development of the development of the development; the development of the development; the development of the development of the development of the development of the development of the institutional structures; the development and the development of the development of the development of the development of the development of the institutional structure; the development of the development of the institutional structure; and the development of the development of the institutional structure; the development of the development of the development of the institutional structure; and the development of the development of the development of the development of the development of the development of the institutional.. We can continue with the details of this Social Security Integration Project, and I just don't want to extend it, and I'm out of time. The project was intended to be launched at the end of April 2012, and the project's duration was envisioned as two years, and investment funding has been provided. Of course, until this point, there was only over 150 automation-based projects within the Social Security Agency for the purpose of building infrastructure. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0098par0731	Thank you, wise guy. I will submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0099par0735	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0098par0736	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tütü, Mr. Serker, Mr. Gützer, Mr. Gürkan, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Ayadın, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Küyük, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Ekin, Mr. Akar, Mr. Akar, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Aksunger. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We move to the agenda's "Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın; Turkey's Grand National Assembly Institution Proposal for Change; Tunceli MP Kamer Gen's on the amendment of Articles of the Turkish Grand National Assembly; and the Constitutional Commission Report from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Bill of Law on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster, which is ranked number two, where we left off from the Bill of Laws, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In third place, Kars MP Ahmet Arslan and Bursa MP Mr. Hüseyin Şahin and 7 MPs will resume their talks with the Plan and Budget Commission Report on the drafting of several Investments and Services in the Doing-Admission Model Frame. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Justice and Development Party Group Chairs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramarash MP Mahir Ünal; Basic Education Act and Some Legal Proposal of Laws and Rize MP İstem Yaser İskıpor and 2 Congressmans; Justice and Development Party Vice Minister's Proposal on the Law; Justice and Development Group Vice Membership of the Security Agency; Minister's Office of the Commission and the Council of Ministers of Turkey; and the Council of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers for Higher Education, and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers for the Councils and the Council of Ministers of Ministers, shall be appointed to be appointed to be appointed to be appointed to be appointed to be appointed to be appointed to be appointed to be appointed to be under the Security of the Security and Security and Security and Security and Security of the Security and Security and Security and Security of the Commission of the Security of the Security and Security of the Commission of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers. of the Council of Ministers of Ministers. of Ministers and the Commission and the Council of the Commission. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. (x) 199 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 83rd Unification Charter, dated 27/3/2012. In the last session, Article 8 of Article 91 of the Civil Code was adopted in the first part of the proposal, which was considered the fundamental law. I will now submit the rest of the clauses in the section to your votes after I make the motion procedures. There are four motions on the 9th article. I'll read the motions according to the order of arrival and process them according to their contradictions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the framework 9th amendment to the current 199-Setment Law Proposal in the following way. Article 25 of Article 9 - 1739 of the Law, the first joke of the law, has been redacted as follows. ▪ Elementary institutions are made up of four-year-old elementary schools and imam-hating secondary schools, which allow preference between mandatory and mandatory primary schools and mandatory four-year-long, mandatory and different programmes. In upper secondary schools and imam-hatip upper secondary schools, electives are created based on the skills, development and preferences of students to support upper secondary school education. In secondary schools and upper secondary schools, Koran and Kerim. Our Prophet's life is taught by choice. Other electives in these schools and programme options for imam-gay secondary schools and other secondary schools are set up by the Ministry. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0100par0773	Mr. President, the AKP has made this motion... ▪ The current Law Proposal of Number 199... ...it's against the 24th article of the Constitution, you can't process it. We offer and offer to replace Article 9 in the following manner... With this motion, the secular republic is being completely terminated, the state of religion is being established. There, when you came to this stand, you swore that you would be faithful to the Constitution, to secularism. Article 9-1739 of the 25th Article of the Law has been redesigned as follows... This motion brought to the republic by the AKP has shown mercy, and the republic has been put on death row, and the secular republic... please don't file this motion.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0101par0781	I'll take note of the motion as I process it, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0100par0782	But you're not supposed to process it. Look, I'm telling you something, you're still making me read the motion. ... elementary schools are made up of secondary schools and imam-hating secondary schools that allow preferential and mandatory elementary schools for five years and three years between mandatory and mandatory and different programmes... Look, this is clearly against the Constitution. According to the 24th article of the Constitution, there is a lesson in religion culture and morality, and when it does, there is a basis for the state of religion. In upper secondary schools, electives are created based on the skills, development and preferences of students to support high school education... Therefore, the Republic of Turkey cannot become a state of religion. In addition, all students are taught the preferences of the Qur'an, Karim and Meali, Examples of the Prophet's Life and Knowledges of Knowledge. The programme options for secondary schools are defined by the ministry. Then this is the end of the secular state of the Republic of Turkey, which was founded on October 29th. I'm not... To the presidency of TBM Law number 199 has been replaced by Article 9 of Law number 1739. We offer and propose that the article shall be rearranged in the following manner... How can you let this happen? In the Constitution, you have to show the working motto of your parliamentary oath. That's not gonna happen! We're saying things and you're still saying things. ▪ Elementary and secondary education are mandatory for children in all age groups. In these schools, education is made in the student's native language. The education language is one of the languages outside of Turkish language, and the students are taught lessons that allow them to learn English well enough. It is determined according to the need and demand of local administrations and the ministry to co-exist on the study and study of which languages to study outside of Turkish. In addition, primary and secondary education is supported by the skills, development and preferences of students. No lesson to be given to students can have a belief, culture, race, ethnicity, language, gender, class, and society that is discriminated against. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahnamaraş MP Mahir Ünal; First-level Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chairs Nurettin Canikli; Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş; İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı; Justice and Development Party Deputy Ahmet Aydın and Şeymaraş MP Ahmet Aydın; First-level Justice and Education Act; Central Council of Ministers and Rize MP Hayati Yaşim Yaserı, 2 MPs; Minister of Higher Education Agency for Peace; Minister of Justice and Prosecutors of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Constitutional Affairs and Security of the Council; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and Development; Ministers of the Council of Justice and Development; Ministers of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and Development; Ministers of the Council of State of Justice and the Council; Ministers of the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State; Mes of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of State of the Council of the Council of State of State of Ministers and the Council; Mes and the Council of State of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Ministers and the Council of Ministers; We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0102par0798	Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0103par0801	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0102par0802	Akif Hamzacebi, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0104par0803	Mr. President, look, I want a word about your attitude. We are here to say that the motion brought in eliminates the secular state of the Republic of Turkey. This parliament, established on October 29th, is being eliminated, and therefore it violates the 24th Amendment.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0102par0805	Mr. Young, when that motion comes up, I promise you, sir, it's a matter to discuss. Okay.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0104par0806	Just a minute, sir... While you were in office here, you swore allegiance to the Constitution, but here, the AKP is destroying the republic for the sake of the vote.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0102par0808	When that motion comes to the agenda, I'll make a promise to those who claim to be contrary to the Constitution. Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0104par0810	Laik is destroying the republic. He's recommending it, he's bringing in the state of religion, and you're enforcing it. Who will defend this state, Mr. President? What the hell!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0102par0811	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0105par0812	Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I salute you all. I've just seen two motions in the proposed set. These motions and for the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey have been made an arrangement in schools for what courses the curriculum will be made up of. Some of you may have gone out and applied some lessons with the Constitution of 1982, but let us not forget that the Constitution was a coup-time constitution. The Holy Bible of our great religion, the Qur'an, is being used as an example today for the sake of voting. It seems that the Justice and Development Party and its followers now want to create a polarity around the sacred books of religion in society. Dear MPs, the state, citizens, religions, do not make a distinction based on their beliefs. Governments, governments embrace all citizens equally; they stand equal distances from all beliefs, from all religions. The government's job is to remove the beliefs of citizens, the obstacles to their freedom of religion. It's not just a secular state definition; it's also the definition of a liberal, democratic state. Today, the AKP declares that it is not a liberal and democratic government, that it does not have that kind of understanding, that it will make a distinction between the beliefs of citizens. Dear lawmakers, all religions act on concepts such as truth, honesty, justice. All religions express the rebellion of rights against injustice. All the rules of religion, worships, rituals, moral goods, are to find the right ones. Basically, what's right, what's good, isn't just for religions, but by taking these concepts, they make them into rules that need to be followed by the two more concepts of the soul, such as the immortality of the soul and the god, which need to be obeyed by the community, but shouldn't be done, to use religious politics. The Prime Minister stated that the classrooms would be closed as a marketing strategy for 4+4. The following day, Mr. Bulent Arinc retributed him, saying, "The classrooms will not be closed." Now, Mr. Prime Minister is resorting to another strategy, through the Holy Book of our great religion, the Koran, to silence the social opposition against this proposal. This reminds me of an example in history: in the history of Islam, there's a bad era that wants to legitimize their injustices and atrocities based on the concept of fate, based on the religion of Islam, the Emevian state. In his struggle with the Sultan of Emevi, Hazreti Ali. In the Battle of Süffin, Amr bin Al-As, who was his commanding officer, passed the pages of the Qur'an at the end of the spears and won the war. That's what you're doing now. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, no one has the right. Let's talk about it together, let's arrange it. So it's very wrong to try to draw a frame for our students in order to separate citizens of religious education, with the motions that you just handed out to opposition parties, who are not looking for compromises, just five minutes ago. That is contrary to our religion. The essence of Islam is to eliminate injustice in accordance with the principle of repentance, to regulate property relations, which is to regulate property and sovereignty relations, which is to show that they belong to the people. You're putting all this aside, it's not supposed to be in this bill...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0106par0819	President, we're talking about something important.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0105par0820	Mr. President, due to the importance of this matter, I would like to request an additional minute. Requesting additional time, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0107par0822	Please, Mr. Hamzacebi, please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0105par0823	Congressmans, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to complete my statement here. Look, what you're doing is not an arrangement for Islam. You bring it here in the name of religion, but there's a clause that people who really believe in Islam shouldn't put in this bill. There's a $20 billion bidding clause.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0107par0824	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0105par0825	It's a $20 billion tender... to give a $20 billion package to non-profit AKP supporters. You bring together a noble Book, a sacred contract, like the Qur'an, which is lawful.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0107par0827	Mr. Hamzacebi, please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0105par0829	Just a moment, Mr. President!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0107par0830	But it's been too long, Mr. Hamzacebi, please come in.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0108par0831	If it is not heard, my president said, "They have brought the Qur'an and the ban together." The Qur'an and the unlawful are in the same law. He said, "Let me repeat it so that it is not heard."
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0105par0832	My respects to all of you. Mr. President, have you ever seen me stay here long?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0109par0834	No.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0105par0835	I'll say my last words.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0109par0836	No, but I waited until the end, Mr. Hamzacebi, you thanked me.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0105par0837	It's like this incompatibility, we have a ten-second time dispute. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0110par0840	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0111par0841	I will, Congressman. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... I'll give you two minutes since there's been a disagreement between the clerks. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Law number 199 replaced by Article 9 of the Framework 9 of the proposed law, Law number 1739. We propose and propose that the article shall be redesigned in the following manner. Secrets Byrayya Leader (Istanbul) and his friends ▪ Elementary and secondary education are mandatory for all children of the age group. In these schools, education is made in the student's native language. The education language is one of the languages outside of Turkish language, and the students are taught lessons that allow them to learn English well enough. It is determined according to the need and demand of local administrations and the ministry to co-exist on the study and study of which languages to study outside of Turkish. In addition, primary and secondary education is supported by the skills, development and preferences of students. No lesson to be given to students can have a belief, culture, race, ethnicity, language, gender, class, and class, and content that is discriminated against. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0112par0857	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0111par0858	Sırrı Süzeyya Önder, İstanbul MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0113par0861	Mr. President, dear friends, I have to correct one thing first. On the day before yesterday, Haydar was drawn to the point where a gesture about our friend had gone beyond his purpose and brought our dear friend to a sad place. It means I have no such intention, and I'm sorry for causing her grief. [[Let's hear it for BDP and CHP]] .....
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0114par0865	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0115par0866	If you don't know, don't speak, brother. Let the one who knows, speak.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0113par0867	.....
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0114par0869	Tiki Tiki Tempo Noserembo Tsar Bari Ruchi Titaritempo!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0113par0870	.....
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0114par0872	Don't mention it!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0116par0873	Talk straight, talk straight, talk straight. - That's right.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0117par0875	..... [[x]] I don't want to do this anymore.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0118par0878	So?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0119par0879	We've had enough of this cruelty. (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0120par0881	The point is, in this country, hundreds of thousands of Kurdish children, hundreds of thousands of Arab children, on the day they first went to elementary school, you can tell by that. They're going, in a language they don't know...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0121par0882	You can hardly read.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0120par0883	And I can barely read because I don't know, how can you? That's the way it is for the Kurdish boy.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0122par0884	They all know. He knows better than you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0120par0885	He's walking into a universe he doesn't even know about, and the more familiar it sounds to you, the more familiar it sounds to him in Turkish. Dear Regents, you have no right to go back from the Ottoman Empire in this matter, you have no right to go back from your ancestors. Many inventors have always come out of the Kurds who provide the spiritual climate of this country because they provide all the opportunities for each child to be educated in its native language. The nationalist background lifts up your mind immediately, but you forget that you are allowed to train in the native language of today's spiritual climate by the grandfathers of many Kurds you curse today.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0123par0887	We don't swear at any Kurd. That's the wrong expression.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0120par0888	Today, I'm telling whoever's talking, you go back and tell your deputy to be patient for two minutes. What do you make of that? Nothing. It was a Latin poem, Latin. It's a question of not throwing a child into a rift like this. What is the matter with you? What is the matter with you? Are you able to usurp what God has given you? How do you license yourself with this? Don't look at us and tell us. Well, let's vote on something that will answer everyone's native language education, and I'll go back, and I'll take our turn. (Applause from the ranks of the BDP) You're... you're taking what God has given you. I don't even get involved in things like civilized or not, like, needless and hurtful, antithesis is barbaric. None of us has the right to weigh the language of a people, the language of another people on a scale of civilization. I repeat, a little empathy from the entire General Assembly: a Kurdish child, the day he first started elementary school -- return, ask your Kurd MPs -- the day they first went to elementary school, the teacher said, "Welcome, children." Here they are, understanding something like this. After that, you put that Kurdish boy in a race with his native language, Turkish, and you expect him to succeed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I don't know about your progress, but the whole justice thing doesn't fit.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0124par0893	Thank you, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0120par0894	Thank you, too. Development aside from your name, it doesn't fit justice in any way. Two minutes to reflect, you'll understand. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0125par0898	Mr. President, sir, no one has a problem with the language he uses in his home, in his oven, but the language of education is Turkish, the official language is Turkish, so it is mentioned in the Constitution. In this regard, it is not right to separate our people and children from ethnic identities in their ranks. All of us, all of us, respect everyone's native language, but in Turkey, education language and official language are Turkish. In fact, I submit to your appreciation how appropriate it is for a proposal to be carried out when the Constitution has a warrant. (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0120par0900	But there are English schools in this country, it's your sensitivity...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0125par0901	That's not his native language.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0120par0902	The French one...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0125par0903	No one has a native language in French.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0126par0904	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0127par0905	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0126par0906	When the coup d'état of September 12th, generals, the Kenan Universe, for the first time, in this Constitution, for the first time, have banned the main languages with the Law 2932, and there is no such law in the history of any state. Now, the main languages and the education of millions that the coupgers speak and the millions demand in their own language, is contrary to the Constitution of the Kenan Universe. This Parliament cannot ban what these coupgers, these generals, these coupgers, and those who will stand trial on April 4th, have banned right-wing and left-wingers, as well as those who will not be executed; it does not suit Turkey.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0127par0908	Mr. Kaplan, calm down, we're listening, calm down.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0126par0909	Since the Ottoman Empire, all languages have been given works of history, literature, poetry, and novel in every language. Here are two hundred and forty major novels written in the history of the Ministry of Culture in Mem u Zin, Ahmadi Hani,qah Tayran, Melaye Ciziri, Yasar Kemal, and only in the history of the Republic. Now, I am either a banner or a ban on languages. I am a multicultural, multilingual Turkey.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0127par0911	Mr. Kaplan, why are you shouting? We're listening, Congress is listening.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0126par0912	Either there are Kurds here, there are Circessians, there are Arabs, there are different languages, and I'm going to make up his mind, or I'm a singularist, and I'm a disbeliever.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0127par0913	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan, I understand.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0126par0914	Today's decision is historic.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0127par0915	Mr. Kaplan, please sit down, point taken.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0126par0916	Either we're going to be partners in the commonwealth or we're going to split up.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0127par0918	Mr. Kaplan, there's no such procedure!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0126par0919	Either we partner up or we split up, Mr. President, we don't get into this kind of argument.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0127par0920	What should we do now, Mr. Kaplan? Please sit down.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0126par0921	Look, there are two motions, two proposals related to religious education. There are motions for religious education.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0127par0922	We'll argue, we'll discuss them.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0126par0923	I'm asking now, is he in the Hanefi sect...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0127par0924	Mr. Kaplan, please sit down!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0126par0925	...the Shafii sect or the Hanbali sect...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0127par0927	Please, sit down!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0128par0928	Enough!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0127par0929	Mr. Kaplan, you're the vice president of the group, you've said your piece.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0129par0930	This isn't something to discuss, that's all!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0127par0931	Mr. Kaplan, sit down, and we'll tell you! Please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0130par0932	They're making it up! There's no such thing in the Ottomans. Who are you kidding?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0131par0933	Sir, we're not going to let people split up. Put it to a vote.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0127par0934	Members of parliament, regarding Mr. Vural's request, the General Assembly considers a motion for violation of the Constitution to be a violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0132par0935	Despite Hasip Bey, this nation will not leave.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0133par0936	I mean, you speak your language, you forbid anyone else, okay?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0127par0937	If this assessment sees a breach with the Constitution at the end, it may refuse to hold a vote. Other than that, our presidency has no authority not to implement a motion proposed against the Constitution. The Constitution is established to make a decision on the contrary. It is possible that after the regulation has been enforced, the Constitutional Court will be prosecuted for violation of the Constitutional Court, and the regulation will be annulled. Thus, the position of our presidency has not changed.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0134par0938	You don't even put the one that's against the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0135par0939	Sir, there's a Article 38 of the Charter.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0127par0940	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. [Applause from BDP rows!]
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0136par0941	Let's hear it for you, bravo, bravo! Let's hear it for you!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0127par0942	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 9th amendment of Law Proposal 199 be changed in the following manner. Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends Article 9-1739 of the 25th Article of the Law has been redacted as follows. ▪ Elementary institutions are made up of secondary schools and imam-hating secondary schools that allow preference between mandatory elementary schools and mandatory three years, mandatory and different programmes. In upper secondary schools, electives are created based on the ability, development and preferences of students to support upper secondary school education. All students are also taught the preferences of the Qur'an and Meali, the Examples of the Prophet's Life and the Knowledge of Sciences. The programme options for secondary schools are defined by the ministry. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0137par0951	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0127par0952	Mehmet Shandır, MP of Mersin, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0138par0955	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, first and foremost, everyone should know that the people of this land are called the Turkish nation. (Applause from MHP rows) The Turkish nation is the name of everyone who is connected to this state by citizenship. The Turkish nation's language is Turkish, the official language of the Republic of Turkey is Turkish; no one should be disturbed by this; this is our common denominator, we embrace everyone in this common denominator. Those who consider themselves out of this are their own problems.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0139par0956	No one speaks ill of the Turkish nation, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0140par0957	No one's saying anything to the Turkish nation, but why do you deny other nations, so that's the point.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0139par0958	We have no problem with the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0141par0959	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, today, here...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0140par0960	Why do you deny the others!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0142par0961	Mr. Kaplan, please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0141par0962	...we're doing a very good job. In my opinion, we are doing a very important and very valuable, very good job in the history of the Republic, where the great National Assembly of Turkey will be the most important thing in the future, where our children will remember us with mercy. God bless everyone who contributed to this. What we do is that we make it a law for a nation of 99 percent Muslims to be given education of the resources of their own beliefs to the children of a country. Now is the time to make peace with our nation and our republic. This republic, this Parliament, this state, this law is for this nation. By ignoring the values and values of this nation, you can neither describe the future nor protect yourself in this globalized world. The knowledge of the Koran, the foundation of our faith values, which we have been afraid to speak of for years, and the life of the Holy Prophet, his most beautiful enforcer, and the practice of all understanding -- the lack of the AKP -- should be taught here. The basic and common denominator was the life of the Holy Prophet and the Holy Prophet, but he had to make it possible for sects to read the difference of knowledge according to understanding. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we, since 1999, have insisted that this is necessary, that this should be studied in our schools, in this book, which I've already expressed to you. We say that in every election statement, in every program, but you're the one in power, and you've been in power for ten years. As Mr. Celal Adan said yesterday, I see it as a gain that you were able to take power by using the rebellion of the imam-wits, by using their persecution to make such an arrangement ten years later, but this is the work of Mr. General of the National Movement Party, Dr. President of the State Garden. After he stood by this issue, we, the spokesman, pronounced it, and you really showed courage at the point of making it happen. I believe that the motion of the Justice and Development Party will soon be read, and that motion -- of course, we'd like you to support our motion, because ours is more likely, better informed -- is incomplete. A chance will be given to teach the religious sensibilities of people of different beliefs. So, in your motion, we will vote as the National Movement Party on this issue, and we will embrace, embrace, embrace, embrace, and embrace fears, with the values of this nation, Turkey's Parliament of the Great Nation, our law, and our republic. In no way should anyone think that this arrangement is against the republic, that it is against the Ataturk. Even the great Ataturk says: "Teach religion in schools." Now we will teach religion in schools. 99% of the people of this country are Muslims. In no way is it against the republic, secularism, or Ataturk's principles to make our children read the resources of Islam.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0143par0969	It's against secularism. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0141par0970	Therefore, I would like the Republican People's Party to support and share the honor. This is a common denominator. This will be the work of all of us. This must be the work of this House. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I thank you all very much. I'm so excited, I'm so happy, I wish you well. I expect you to support our motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0144par0975	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0145par0977	Sir, there was a raiser there. Mr. President, I want you to identify those who raise their hands and those who don't.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0144par0979	The motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0146par0980	I don't think they understand what's being voted!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0145par0981	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0146par0982	You guys are unbelievable!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0145par0983	Repeat... especially by standing up, it's clear... I want a repeat of that vote.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0147par0984	Mr. Vural, the motions...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0146par0985	Repeat that vote by reciting it one by one.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0145par0986	Some of the MPs may vote yes.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0146par0987	When words come from here, will they say "yes" when they come from there?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0148par0988	I'm having the other motion read:
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0146par0989	Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0149par0990	Mr. President, I have observed that some of the members of the AKP Group have raised their hand in favour of our motion, some of the MPs haven't. So...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0148par0991	Mr. Vural, the motions are made only by a sign. If we had any other way, if you had requested it, we would have done it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0149par0992	Mr. President, I need you to repeat. Because...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0148par0993	But here...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0149par0994	No, you didn't look at the fingers.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0148par0995	It wasn't me, it was the clerks. Here are the clerks, one from the ruling party, one from the opposition party.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0149par0996	No, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0148par0997	If there's a discrepancy between the clerks, if there's a disagreement, I'll do as you say, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0149par0998	So, Mr. President, what's the deal with finding lawmakers raising their hands here?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0148par0999	I get it, I'm not the minister, I'm not the counter, the clerk's here.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0149par1000	I don't know why the band's blocking it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0148par1001	Clerk members are here. Yes, lawmakers, the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the framework 9th amendment to the current 199-Setment Law Proposal in the following way. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends Article 25 of Article 9 - 1739 of the Law, the first joke of the law, has been redacted as follows. ▪ Elementary institutions are made up of four-year-long and mandatory elementary schools and Imam-hatip schools, which allow preferential and mandatory four-year-long, mandatory and different programmes. In upper secondary schools and imam-hakim schools, electives are created based on the skills, development and preferences of students to support high school education. In secondary schools and upper secondary schools, Koran and Kerim. Our Prophet's life is taught by choice. Other electives in these schools and programme options for imam-gay secondary schools and other secondary schools are set up by the Ministry. Does the commission agree with the motion? We welcome you, Mr. President, in your proper opinion. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0150par1012	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0148par1013	Nurettin Canikli, Giresun MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0151par1016	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, first of all, I salute you all. Yes, with this motion, indeed, a request that our nation has long waited for, wanted and desired, hopefully, will soon be fulfilled with the discretion of the High Assembly. With that dignity, today is a truly historic day. Today is a day of pride, a day of honor.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0152par1019	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0151par1020	Dear friends...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0153par1021	It's a historic day for destroying the state of the Republic of Turkey!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0154par1022	We've seen how empty your motion is!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0151par1023	Dear friends, it's not just our nation's orders, it's not our nation's.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0154par1024	How empty your proposal is!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0151par1025	It is also an order from the 24th Amendment, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0154par1026	That's it! That's how we get it!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0151par1027	The 24th article of our Constitution clearly states that in a way that everyone can understand and understand...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0155par1028	Canicli, why are you doing this alone?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0151par1029	The education and education of religion and morality are conducted under the supervision and supervision of the state...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0156par1030	That's the power of the nationalist movement!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0155par1031	Why do you do it on your own if it's people's mutual value?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0151par1032	education in religious culture and morality...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0156par1033	That's the power of the nationalist movement! That's how they get it!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0151par1034	.... is among the obligatory classes taught at the first and secondary schools....................
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0157par1035	Why do you do it alone, Canicli?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0151par1036	Isn't it obvious, dear friends?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0158par1037	That's how they bring it in, like this!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0157par1038	Why do you do it alone?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0151par1039	Do you need to take the gold off?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0157par1040	Why do you do it on your own if it's people's mutual value?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0159par1041	That's how they bring it in, like this!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0151par1042	The Constitution is the Supreme Court of Ministers. The Constitution is the Supreme Court of Ministers.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0157par1043	Why don't you just...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0151par1044	No, what the hell! For God's sake, Mr. Shangir just said you'd support...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0157par1045	If it's the common value of people, why do you do it alone?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0160par1046	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0161par1047	I wish you hadn't interfered with the commission!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0162par1048	The nationalist movement party just said they'd back us up, gave up, the nationalist movement party, I don't know.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0161par1049	I wish you hadn't interfered with the commission!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0162par1050	Did you give up? Mr. Chancer just told me, did you give up? It's okay.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0163par1051	Why alone?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0164par1052	Congressmans, please listen to the Minister.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0162par1053	With the support of the AK PARTY group, hopefully, this will be carried out by our nation, so don't doubt it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0163par1055	I mean, how is this any different from February 28th?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0165par1056	It's obvious how empty your proposal was.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0163par1057	How is this any different from February 28th? You're on your own.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0165par1058	If it weren't for the nationalist movement, you wouldn't have moved a muscle.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0163par1059	What's the difference between February 28th?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0166par1060	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0167par1061	Dear friends, look, there is no force against any people, against the group in any way. It's very clear...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0163par1062	Yesterday the soldiers had civilians, today the civilians had soldiers. What's the difference between February 28th?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0167par1063	For God's sake! Why are you trying to keep me from talking?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0163par1064	I'm not trying to keep you from talking, I'm protesting something. I'm protesting, not not talking.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0168par1065	Mr. Tallback, please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0167par1066	I'm talking about the motion you've been supporting, that you're going to give. For God's sake, don't! There's no pushing anyone at all.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0169par1067	See bilateral politics. Where was your offer?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0167par1068	Because when you look at the proposal text, it's very clear that it will be read optionally, dear friends. Why are you afraid of that?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0169par1069	Where was your proposal? I thought you had it in you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0167par1070	Anyone can take advantage of that opportunity, anyone can take advantage of it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0169par1071	You can't run, you can't run.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0167par1072	His opinion, whatever his faith is, can take advantage of it, as long as it's not mandatory, as long as there's no imposition.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0169par1073	You can't run away like this.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0167par1074	What is wrong with a preferential, optional system, as long as there is no imposition, such as eight years of uninterrupted education imposed in 1997?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0169par1075	Nurettin Bey, this is how we get it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0167par1076	And look, fellas, what's being read on demand, what's the need to be read? The Qur'an is the life of our prophet. What's wrong with that?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0170par1077	You keep saying the wrong thing.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0167par1078	If any of our citizens would like to have their children read the Koran, let the state provide it, and let the government provide it. Why do you feel uncomfortable about this? It's not just that, no matter what other religion...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0171par1079	Why are you saying no to ours? What would you have done without MHP?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0170par1080	I thought this was a coup d'état. I thought you said it was a coup d'état.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0172par1081	Mr. Serindağ, please sit down. Let's hear it in silence.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0173par1082	If he wants to teach his children his own religion, whatever religion he is from, then the system is available and can be brought in as an elective course. This is clearly expressed in its original text.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0174par1083	Did you just think of that?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0175par1084	No, I didn't. That's not true. Then why are you changing it?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0173par1085	Look, it's a very democratic, extremely pluralistic practice that considers the very opinion of citizens. No one should have any objection to that.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0174par1086	It occurred to you ten years later. The world's work is over, and the Hereafter's work began ten years later. First the work of this world, then the work of the Hereafter.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0173par1087	No one who says he's a Democrat, that he supports pluralism can object to this proposal, dear friends, because there's no imposition, there's no compulsion, there's no desire, there's no desire. Look, we know that some of our people have problems with the people, with the people, with the people.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0176par1088	You've got a problem, you guys!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0173par1089	That's why, for 40 years, for 50 years, I don't know how long, we know that.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0176par1090	You have a problem with the Republic, with the Republic!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0173par1091	But in order to serve this nation, the nation has assigned these staffs, dear friends, to these staffs, remember that.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0177par1092	What service?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0173par1093	These staffs will carry out the mission our nation has given them. He's determined, no one can stop him.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0178par1095	You can't stop it, you're going to squeeze it. I said, look how you've brought it like a lamb.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0173par1096	Look, these two lessons are set as examples.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0178par1097	There's more, there's more!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0173par1098	Other than that, the Ministry can increase the number of electives based on the demand, including all religious groups.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0178par1099	We're going to end masked politics on this, and we're going to end your masked politics! Let's face it, people.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0173par1100	All religious groups are included, yes, exactly. I mean, you may not be able to sense it, you may not want to admit it, but that's our democratic understanding, that's our pluralism, and it's clear in the original text of matter. I mean, eight years of uninterrupted training on one side, on the other, under our nation's command...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0179par1103	You're not going to wash this republic, you're not going to wash it!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0173par1104	I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0180par1106	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0181par1107	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0182par1108	Thank you, Mr. Canicli. One moment, please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0181par1110	Sir, Mr. Canikli -- I'm amazed -- says he had it before this. Put your hand on your conscience, it didn't occur to you before this, it wasn't there, it wasn't there! We did it at the request of the nationalist movement. Why can't you have the courage to say it? Be courageous, be courageous, be thankful.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0183par1111	Look, it's clearly in the text, it's in the material.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0181par1112	No, they didn't have imam-hating middle schools, so we suggested it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0184par1113	Mr. Vural, your word has been made.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0181par1114	And, Mr. President, I don't know, when these motions are accepted, I don't know if the grounds are part of the law or not, but that reason is so weak. The Imam-student secondary schools are opening.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0185par1115	That's where he explained the motive.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0181par1116	The life of the Koran and the Prophet, the Prophet, says, look at the reason...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0186par1117	I put the motive there as a healer.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0181par1118	▪ To be read...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0187par1119	Mr. Vural, please state at your position or from the stand.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0181par1120	It was proposed to clarify the misinformation in public regarding the electives to be read. You mean we didn't intend it. You're saying you didn't intend it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0187par1121	Mr. Vural, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0188par1123	Why didn't you just back me up? You spent ten years on worldly gains, and the Hereafter did not occur to you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0187par1124	Congressmans, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Slim would like a word. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0189par1126	Mr. Canicli says we have a problem with the values of the nation, and he's made a clear taunt, and I want two minutes' promise.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0190par1127	I didn't pick on CHP.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0187par1128	No, let's ask for the transcripts, Mr. Slim, if you like.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0189par1129	Mr. President, you were talking at the time, and I'm not going to lie to the clerk, believe me.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0187par1130	No, please... please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0189par1131	But that's what he said. In two minutes...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0187par1132	Why do you pronounce these words to yourself so quickly, so quickly, the word 'lie', 'iftira... '
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0191par1133	No, he spoke pointingly to our group, some of them... said, so he showed it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0189par1134	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0187par1135	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0189par1136	Well, thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0187par1137	But, please, you're Deputy Group President, right away, the word "lie," "iftira," "regulation," "gasp..." Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0189par1139	If we don't start with the high curtain, you don't promise.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0187par1140	I don't think it's appropriate, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0189par1141	Okay.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0187par1142	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0189par1145	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in the discussion of education, the computer can be discussed, the Internet can be discussed; can our religion, our book be the subject of hot politics?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0192par1146	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0189par1147	What a shame! What a shame! So instead of us discussing the Internet, computers, schools, are you a better Muslim or am I a better Muslim? It is a sin, a sin, a sin.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0193par1149	We're not arguing!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0189par1150	Look, my dear friends, I mean, you're a lot of people who have gone through that religious education, and I've gone through that education, and don't worry about it, I don't understand how you describe these arguments. In this law, even without both of these proposals, it's possible to put these classes in.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0194par1151	Here you go!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0189par1152	It's possible. You know what you only put these in for? You're using the Koran to get votes, to get votes! (H.P.) Don't do this. In an arrangement concerning the Qur'an, I would like 550 of the 550 MPs to vote here. We should do this together. Your job, your power, those billion dollars, you're trying to shut them down with the Koran, you're trying to close the ban with the Koran! Look, don't do this. Don't do this.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0195par1154	It didn't happen, it didn't happen.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0189par1155	Our religion, the Qur'an, is not a discussion of hot politics.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0195par1156	No arguments.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0189par1157	You're Muslims, aren't I?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0196par1158	We're not saying that.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0189par1159	I'll choose from among you, I'll argue in public, and if I lose to them, I'll give up politics. Don't worry about it. Don't do this. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE] Look, don't make this a subject of hot politics. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You'll see in the latest articles the resistance of the Republican People's Party. We will not give you the benefit of the orphan. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0197par1165	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0198par1166	Mr. President, sir, we have a motion. Mr. Muharrem has stated that a motion has been made for the Koran to get the votes, and I regret it. Our values are not to be exploited for voting. These are the values that we all, all of us, must have together. Therefore, it is not possible for us to accept such an assessment. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0197par1168	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0199par1169	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0197par1170	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0199par1171	Mr. President, Mr. Canikli gave a speech after my speech and made a statement to inform both me and our group.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0197par1172	What'd he say about your band?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0200par1173	I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0201par1174	You're not listening to anything, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0202par1175	So when he explained the reason why our motion was not accepted, he accused us of exploiting the issue in a sense. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a correction.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0203par1176	Here you are, Mr. Shandir, on the condition that you don't have to start any more bullying.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0204par1178	Mr. President, I've been pointing out for ten minutes, you haven't asked for my advice.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0203par1179	Mr. Altay, the Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0204par1180	Sir, are you going to run this House with the members of the group?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0203par1181	But, Mr. Altay, we don't have that kind of procedure, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0204par1182	Sir, your job is to ask me if I've burned it for ten minutes, you promise, you won't give it, it's a separate job. Please. Don't even ask my...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0203par1183	To the members of the group...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0204par1184	Sir, you, you told me...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0203par1185	I promised, let's hear it, then Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0204par1186	No, no, but sit down, I won't give it to you. You have to ask me my side.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0203par1187	Mr. Group, we can't have the Vice President on the stand, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0204par1188	Maybe, you'll have to listen to me.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0203par1189	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0205par1190	Yeah, there's MPs here, too. What's the vice president of the group? So the lawmakers here have no personality? You've got that attitude! Every congressman here is equal.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0206par1192	Dear friends, at least...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0205par1193	With such absurd thoughts...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0206par1194	...let's be tolerant of each other in the sanctity of this matter we're talking about. Please. Our objection, Mr. Canikli, is that if you had made us talk in the Commission, we would have submitted this motion there, and this discussion would have ended there, but you wouldn't have let us. So you have a Mr. Minister -- your Prime Minister is a different -- you accused the Nationalist Movement Party of exploiting this issue. You have no right. So we don't have to prove ourselves to you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0207par1196	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0206par1197	So we're saying, since 99, you've also been in power for ten years, and you've been in power by taking the vote of these underdogs, but you haven't brought it to this day... there's no way in the law you've brought.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0208par1198	I do.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0206par1199	The motion you brought is also open. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm not saying this to press charges. In front of you is a motion from the National Movement Party. There's a reason for 500 words. There are scholars among you, religious leaders. Read the reason, you'll see. Read the reason for the Justice and Development Party, a line.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0209par1201	I've spoken...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0206par1202	So, dear friends, you have no right to question our seriousness in this matter.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0210par1203	You're unprepared, you're not working. Your intentions are not no.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0206par1204	It's not your right, and I repeat: for what reason did you guys vote no to the motion of the National Movement Party?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0210par1205	Which one? Taassup, party taassou...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0206par1206	We will now vote yes to your proposal. Aren't we gonna be embarrassed, guys? Yeah, aren't we gonna be embarrassed? That's not possible. I mean, even with the Qur'an, if we can't get along with you, if you can't get along with us, how can this work?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0211par1207	They wouldn't let me talk, Mr. Shandir. Oh, for God's sake.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0210par1208	If you love God, what can you do to support him?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0206par1209	For God's sake. But there, right away, you raised your hand to our motion, and you took away the will of this group.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0210par1210	What do you have to support? No heart, no heart.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0212par1211	Wrong, technically...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0206par1212	Why would it be wrong?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0213par1215	Mr. Chancer, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0206par1216	My dear friends, I ask you to reconsider yourself...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0214par1217	Here's your previous motion. It's a disgrace.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0213par1218	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0206par1219	... damage the sharp vinegar cube...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0215par1220	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0213par1221	Just a second... I promised Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0206par1222	Let's keep our values...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0215par1223	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0213par1224	I promised Mr. Altay. One moment, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0206par1225	I'd like to pay my respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0213par1232	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0216par1233	Mr. President, the President of the Education Board or his representative must leave the General Assembly office immediately. I demand this because it's the work of drill discipline to put a curriculum in primary school, one. If we've taken over, the Chairman of the Education Board or his representative has no business there. He must leave there immediately, and you have committed a constitutional offense by carrying out the AKP's proposal, which includes the offer of the DP and its proposal against the Constitution. I'd also like to point out that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not the place to dynamite the secular, democratic republic.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0213par1235	Mr. Altay, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0217par1236	Yeah, he's right, we do the work of drill discipline.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0213par1237	Please don't target bureaucrats in your speeches. Second: We have declared our position here as President of the Constitution. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0218par1239	Thank you, Mr. President. This motion is clearly against the secular principle of the Constitution. The AKP has a majority, and since they have found other support in parliament -- the Deputy President of the Group says: "I think today is a historic day." Yeah, it's a historic day. - We've lifted the Republic, we've declared the caliphate. Let them say, they're more honest. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0219par1243	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan has a demand for words. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0220par1246	Indeed, we have witnessed a sorrowful discussion here because we are truly sorry to make the sacred values of the Qur'an, religion, and the prophet, the political issue. For ten years, the ruling EC PARTY governments and Mr. Secretary and Undersecretary, the interests are here. There were religious classes in the curriculum. Haven't you ever taught the Koran, the Holy Prophet's life, the means, the lessons of religion? Did you or didn't you? I'd appreciate it if you'd inform the Council on this matter.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0219par1247	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0221par1250	That's the right attitude.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0222par1251	The heart, the heart! Good for you! That's how you're going to do it, isn't it? How? It's boring, isn't it?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0219par1252	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, have been accepted...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0223par1254	Then let's declare caliphate and reign, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit01spe0219par1255	Congressmans, I will submit Article 9 to your votes in accordance with the motion adopted. However, there is a motion to vote in the form of an open vote on Article 9. I'll have the motion read and call the signers. It's 9th and 9th and 9th and 9th and 9th and 9th. We'd like to give you permission to vote on the matter with an open vote. Mehmet Shandır? Here. Oktay Vural? Here. Mehmet Günal? Here. Özcan Yeniçeri? Here. D. Ali Torlak? Here. Mustafa Erdem? Here. Lütfü Türkkan? Here. A scholar's Light? Here. Zuhal Topman? Here. Yusuf Halaçoglu? Here. Ahmet Duran Bulut? Here. You did, Yilmaz? Here. Münir Kutluata? Here. Rusar Demirel? Here. Coral Akşener? Here. Murat Basesgioğlu? Here. Celal Adan? Here. Mehmet Erdogan? Here. Mesut Dedeoğlu? Here. Muharrem Varli? Here. Mustafa Kalaycı? Here. Sinan Okan? Here. Ali Longırmak? Here. Ali Halaman? Here. Reşat Right? Here. You got it, Lightning? Here. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, after the open vote of Article 9 of Law Proposal No. 199: So the 9th article is accepted. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0219par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 199. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on the 10th article, which I shall have read according to the order of arrival, and according to their contradictions: We propose and propose that the clause "or common" in Article 10 of the 199-line bill be removed from the text of matter. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahnamaraş MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister's Law and Development Party's Deputy Chairs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Berçkaplı; Justice and Development Party Chair Ahmet Aydın and Şeymaraş MP Ahmet Aydın and Şemir İnal; Chairman's Council of Justice and Education Act on Some Laws and Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's Office on the Law; Minister's Office of Justice and the Council of Justice and Development; Minister's Office of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Turkey; Minister of Justice and the Constitutional Laws of the Constitution; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers for Higher Education; Minister of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers; Ministers of the Council of Justice and the Council of the Councils and the Council of Ministers of State of Ministers of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of State of State of Justice and the Council; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Ministers of State of Ministers of Ministers of State of State of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of State of Ministers; We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Article 10 - 1739 of the Law has been changed in the following way. "Madde 26-Medieval education includes general, vocational and technical educational institutions, which provide four years of compulsory education based on elementary education. Those who finish these schools are granted a secondary education degree." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Justice and Development Party Chairs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahraman MP Mahir İnal; Prime Minister of Higher Laws and Minister of Dair Law and 2 MP's Office of Higher Education Agency; Justice and Development Party Vice Minister of Public Prosecutors's Office; Minister of Justice and Development Party Mustafa Elisseral; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council; Article 26 of the Law No. 10 - 1739 has been changed as follows. (Madde 26-Medieval education covers all general, professional and technical teaching institutions based on elementary education, three years of mandatory, knitting, or widespread studies. Those who finish these schools are given a secondary education degree. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0224par0018	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0219par0019	Mustafa Erdem, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0225par0022	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the National Movement Party's motion. I salute you all with love and respect. As members of the same religion, we are here to perform a duty and responsibility. I would like to point out to you that any area of our supreme religion, Islam, does not allow abuse, and that a Muslim's religious feelings should not be a tool for exploitation. We, the National Movement Party, feel that religion is the fate and ideal of this nation, and in the event of that religion, the nation's survival, I condemn the AKP lawmakers who have taken a vote to not support this group's proposal, even though we, as the National Movement Party, offered to give religious lessons in our educational institutions, teach Quran, open the middle parts of the imam-hatip schools. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen, before the National Movement Party makes another motion, why didn't you tell us earlier that Mr. President and Group Directors of the National Movement Party, Koran, our Prophet's life, the knowledge of this nation, should be taught to their children, that the central parts of the imam-hating schools should be opened? You submitted two proposals, and in the first of the two motions, the middle parts of the imam-hatip schools were also missing, but the public was informed that Mr. Minister's message from Turkey, from Seoul, would be included in this program as the Kurdish language for education, and that the Heybeliada Religious School would be opened within the framework of this programme. Then I'd like to bring to your attention here, beloved lawmakers: Religion is a whole of values that Allah has placed in man, which cannot be changed, according to the 30th Verse of the 30th verse of our Great Book. I don't believe it. What people do is nothing more than the expression of repressed religious feelings. I'd like to rephrase the interview that I gave to the Russian daily Komsomolskaya Pravda about 15 years ago: I want to address your conscience, your mind: in this case, if the feeling of belief is placed within a person, then it will have to be taught in a legal way, and its harmful parts will have to be eliminated. If you don't teach religion lessons in your common and knit educational institutions, if it doesn't happen in a legal and real way, people who have no choice but to satisfy this emotion in the form of illegal information, then religious exploitation, religious abuse, or false religious knowledge will be seen in our country. So I want to make it clear here that people who belong to various gender and age groups in newspapers, televisions, radios, even on a primitive basis, need to ask a question about religion, and if religious fanatics can misdirect their own feelings and ineptitudes to these questions, it's nothing more than misdirecting the maturity from creation. Thus, it is said that our country, which has had centuries of religious education, should meet with its religious values, cultural values, and have an ideal spirit at the point of our nation's back, that I salute all of you with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0226par0031	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Şemammarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of Justice and Development Party Group Chairs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Berçkaplı; Minister of Justice and Development Party Ahmet Aydın and Şamir İnal; Minister of First Education and Education Act for Some Laws and Rize MP Hayati Yaza MP Yaşıpor and 2 MPs; Minister of Higher Education Organizations of the Security Agency; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of the Constitution of the Constitution; Minister of the Constitution and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council; Minister of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council; We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Binnaz Earth (Istanbul) and his friends Article 10 - 1739 of the Law has been changed in the following way. "Madde 26-Medieval education includes general, vocational and technical educational institutions, which provide four years of compulsory education based on elementary education. Those who finish these schools are granted a secondary education degree." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0227par0042	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0226par0043	Binnaz Üurk, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Land.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0228par0046	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I spoke on two televisions before I came here. The question I was asked was: "Why is the CHP objecting to this law?" I said, "Listen to our objections, listen to the imam-religious schools, and it has nothing to do with secularism." In fact, Prime Minister and other AKP officials said the CHP MPs spoke only as they discussed this in the Commission and not only in the middle parts of imam-hatip high schools. That's not true, none of our friends brought it up. What we're really concerned about is the philosophy of education and the content of this law because we have serious concerns about this law. We also have reservations about poor family children, especially at the source of our concerns. Now, after I say this, let me say that I truly regret what just happened here. A member of the MP from the SHP has just accused our friend AKP. He said: "Sir, they're using religion." Unfortunately, they've done the same thing today. Here we are in the debate of the MHP and the AKP, who will look more religious and therefore get a runt from it and get more votes. I strongly condemn that. The way this House works is actually one of the main reasons why we object to this law. Look, I've attended many of the Commission meetings, but only for two days, it's been discussed until the 7th Amendment, and 7 articles have passed through the Commission. The remaining clauses were supposedly discussed in the Commission and were supposedly put to a vote and were accepted. If there is a fair trial in this country, if there is an independent judiciary, this law must be broken in the Constitutional Court because in no parliamentary system, no law is tried to create common wisdom, no common mind, without being sought for consensus. This is indeed a very distressing situation and has become an AKP classic. We've been through this before, this Parliament doesn't work, it doesn't work, because it's just, and it's just like, we can't discuss anything here, because it's a community of people who sign or print a seal. Look, the Kurdish problem came in here, and since it's closed session, I can't explain it now, but I can tell you this, we haven't even touched on it for two days. In the same way, many times, our fellow lawmakers and BDP friends have offered to be passed a law against racist rhetoric, even this one has been rejected. Now, therefore, here we are, in fact, playing a theatre, playing democracy, just like it was played. We're not discussing anything, we're not trying to solve anything. Now, I just said... So let me tell you this: I think what the Prime Minister and AKP officials had hoped was that the CHP would be against it on the basis of secularism, and we would be too. That's because it didn't happen, which I think today's scene happened. Because, as our group vice president said, that was in the context of the law. I mean, religion education is supposed to be a package in the context of the law. Thus, in this package, the Quran could be taught, the life of the prophet could be taught, and knowledge of Islam could be given. In no law, you don't go into detail about this lesson being taught, this lesson being taught. I'll tell you what, I told you, it's a law that's gonna shoot poor kids. Look, when you look at it, it looks like they're actually giving electives. That's great, and we're already in favor of electives. So the students should be given this chance to explore their abilities, their abilities, but here's the trick: they're not actually given an elective course. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...choice class packages are being delivered. Therefore, the poor family children are the ones who will suffer.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0229par0055	Thank you, Mr. Earth.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0228par0056	In the same way, pre-school education is a vital effort for poor family children to start primary school in equal conditions for better family children. So, look, Mr. Secretary, this is not reform. But what should be done here is to pass a reform law.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0229par0057	Dear Earth, please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0228par0058	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0230par0060	Mr. President, the Hajip has made unjust, unlawful statements, as the National Movement Party has abused religion in accordance with a motion that has just been adopted in Article 9. Religion is what makes us people. As the National Movement Party, I'd like to say that the criticism of our attitude under the name of the 'din abuse' is also a separate issue of abuse. I believe that the people who voted for the Republican People's Party would put this nation's religion in the first place, learning from its sources and understanding and learning at the schools, as Ataturk said.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0228par0062	That's not the point, sir. They're already taught in schools.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0230par0063	So, as the National Movement Party, religion is not a place of abuse, it's what brings us all together. Unfortunately, Mr. Hajjip, I regret to regret to inform you that you are not aware that you are exploiting this when you express your views on the abuse of ethnic issues.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0231par0065	Thank you, Mr. Vural, it's been filed. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0232par0069	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0231par0070	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Pülter, Mr. Çıray, Mr. Özsüşmiş, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Yüyük, Mr. Ayadın, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Aksınger, Mr. Earth, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Öz, Mr. Light, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Sesame. Congressmans, I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit to your votes the motion of Istanbul MP Binnaz Eyük and his friends: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We propose and propose that the clause "or common" in Article 10 of the 199-line bill be removed from the text of matter. Secrets Sakık (Muhs) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0233par0088	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0231par0089	Ertugrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0234par0092	Mr. President, dear friends, in fact, this motion was the request of teachers who were dragged, dragged and snored today in Kızıyay, Tandoğan, all over Ankara by pressurized water, toxic gas, beaten, dragged, dragged on the ground by the order of Interior Minister Naim Şahin. You didn't ask for the opinion of those teachers, you never applied their opinion, but you imposed a law on us in a midnight raid on how to shape their education. Remember, any teacher you may have beaten all over Turkey in Kızılay, Tandoğan, can be your children's teacher. Which one of you will be able to face those teachers tomorrow when you go to a parent-teacher conference? Can you say that we beat you up? Shame on you! [[▪ Don't shout from the AK PARTY rows]] Speak without shouting. There have been others who have gone down this road before. Mr. Home Secretary's call to punish people by means of peace, so it's not forgotten that only and only wild animals offer a path to the public, but today we've encountered another honor, pressured water, toxic gas. What happened? Here we are again, saying we're thinking again. Just like those who stood up to the oppressors 40 years ago. (Applause from BDP rows) As they gave their lives for their own ideals. Those who destroyed them were forgotten, murderers, tyrants, executioners, but they will never be forgotten, just like the teachers who stood up for their own purposes and their own beliefs today in the prison, just as they did. Here are the faxes. On the thirtieth day of the hunger strike, Osmaniye Prison. The only recovery since that day, since the delegation left, has been that they've been able to fax us their complaints. This treatment of government workers, politicians, prison inmates, women, men, gives us an idea of their politics. This law of education... the old law of education was not a virtue. He didn't give us the school of peace; he didn't give us the school of non-men; it wasn't the school of the workers, the school of the poor; it wasn't the school of the disabled, the school of the people; it wasn't the school of the believers, the school of the non-believers; it wasn't the school of the brotherhood; it wasn't the school of freedom; it was the school of oppression, the school of persecution, the school of oppression, the school of persecution, but today, you're forcing us to do more than this. You reject the request for primary language education. You're developing inequality in middle school that exists against girls. The transfer of nine-year-old students to specific areas limits their post-13 education options. You're looking after the needs of the religious, nationalist, sexist, neoliberal, global capital system. This bill appeals neither to the workers of Turkey, nor to their citizens, nor to those who do not believe in their Christians, nor to those who have Islamic interpretations outside the religion of Islam. Before it's too late, we call to you, friends: Child laborers, obedient, devout generations, say no to the land. Let's try to get the democratic republic's schools to talk, to live, without any distinction, to teach everyone who is qualified and without money. You can withdraw this law, you still have that chance. But believe me, once we pass this law, after we enforce this law and impose it on our children who will be subjected to national education, every day, education will be the subject of a political debate. Inevitably, you've come this way, you can come back from here. We can agree on a new education law that we can co-operate on, which protects the needs of the segments you represent. But I understand that we understand that you are not only seeking an educational law, you are intent on reshaping society, a community engineering, a symmetry of the central state politics that you have so far criticised. You'll see what your intention is when you apply your law because the people of Turkey are not obedient sheep, they will never extend their necks to the wheels of a training system to leave him ignorant. I invite you to reconsider your views.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0235par0102	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on the 11th article, which I will have read according to the order of arrival and process according to their contradictions. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Justice and Development Party Deputy Chiefs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Heromarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of the First Education and Development Act for Change in Some Laws; Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's Proposition on the Law of Higher Education Institutions; Justice and Development Party MP Mustafa Eliseral and Turkey's Grand National Assembly; Minister of Justice and Vice President of the Constitution; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Developments of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Constitution and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers for the Constitution; Ministers of Justice and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Ministers; Ministers of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and of Justice and the Council; We would like to change the term "Temporary Article 3" into "Temporary Article 3" (also referred to in Article 2012-2013-2014) and the term "Education year" (also referred to in Article 2012-2013-2014) to "two years of education and education." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahnamaraş MP Mahir Ünal; First-level Justice and Development Party Deputy Chairs Nurettin Canikli; Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş; İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı; Justice and Development Party Deputy Ahmet Aydın and Şemarmarash MP Ahmet Aydın; First-level Justice and Education Act; Vice-President of Law and Rize MP Hayati Yaşim Yaserı, 2 MPs; Minister of Higher Education Agency for Peace; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of the Council; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and Development; Ministers of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council; Minister of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council; Minister of State of the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council; We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Article 11-1739 has been added to the following temporary clause. "Temporary Article 3- The mandatory secondary school begins in 2012-2013 as of the year of education-education. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is authorized to postpone the implementation of an education-school year." We propose and propose that Article 11 of the 199 bill be changed as follows. The Interim Article 3-Educational Middle School is passed by the Ministry of National Education by the Council of Ministers after the decision of the Council of Ministers has been determined and met the needs of teachers, schools, classes, physics and hardware, in a way that can give all of the students of the age population a qualified education." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0236par0118	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0235par0119	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0237par0121	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, they used to come in spring these days, the Redbear Square smelled of perfume, but for now, Redbear Square smells of gas. The minister in charge of the gas is here now. Because I am a slave to him who taught me a letter. He said, "Hazreti Ali," and we say, "I will gas the one who taught me a letter, I will spray the bomb, pepper, pressure water, my batons, I will send it to the general, I will restrict the freedom of travel, I will destroy these teachers." Signed, İdris Naim Şahin. Now, look, don't let God give such a forward democracy to anyone! Teachers are coming in, reacting to a law discussed in Congress, explaining their thoughts. What are you afraid of? They're teachers, they're teachers, they're teachers, they're friends! If they come in here, make a press release in front of the House, give their files to all the groups, the lawmakers are there, and there's gonna be apocalypse? What's the moral of putting a cop in front of that cop's teacher, what's his law, what's his humanity, what's his conscience? Can you tell me, for God's sake, what is its place in religion, what is its place in morality, and what is its place in humanity? Oh, this is D.C., this is happening right here. Look, if you close your eyes on this -- in front of you, in D.C., 100 meters ahead of Congress -- gas bombs, teachers crawling on the ground, in this snow, in the rain, in Adana, how many detentions I don't know about in Antalya, how many detentions in İzmir -- the name of this is not democracy. It's called a spit democracy! Spit democracy also hurts the most spitters, look, let me be clear, because when you violate and eliminate the rules of democracy, you can't argue, you can't talk, you can't partner, you can't enforce the rules of plural democracy, you can't do nice things, you can't adjust your children's future, they can't be achieved. Now, there are arguments going on here. Of course, there will be different ideas. Is there anything more accurate than a competition for different ideas? Why are we afraid of competing ideas? Why is it forbidden? The coup d'états of September 12th will be tried on April 4th. With their mentality, with their understanding of governance, with the understanding of coupgers, gangbangers, with their mentality, how far does it take to rule this country? That's how you do it, you open up the land areas, you bring in the rant laws. Robbery, looting, bidding, building-action, privatisation, you're gonna put your ports, your mountains, your forests, your mines one-on-one in the country. This isn't gonna work, guys. You have to push the limits of your conscience a little bit. Look, our mayor, Aydın Budak, has been sentenced to two years and six months for a speech; it's been confirmed. The mayor was shot down for expressing his opinion. Mr. Secretary here is the former Chief Governor of Cizre. He was a co-ed, and the teacher slapped him at Artukoğlu Elementary School in 1987. Artukoğlu made a habit of slapping from there at primary school, and Kızılay continued to slap from there. Go ahead, make an election decision in Cizre. Bring your authority, if you will, and we will race. Do you have any power in the chest? Here you go, let's go. That's democracy. Look, Sharifettin Halis was a congressman here. He was sentenced to sixteen years and seven months for five years of conversation here. You can't shut this country up because a congressman friend of yours is talking. Pity, shame on this country. This is not a democracy.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0238par0129	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Don't talk like a terrorist!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0237par0131	You're all saying terrorist, aren't you? You're going to terrorize the state, that's up to you, isn't it?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0239par0132	Don't talk like a terrorist!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0238par0133	Congressman, please.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0237par0134	Cowards only take refuge in the back of panzers.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0238par0135	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0240par0136	Don't threaten me!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0237par0137	Cowards only take refuge behind armored men. Cowards only take refuge behind coupgers. If you're not afraid, you go to the chest with your ideas.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0238par0139	Mr. Kaplan, please... please, Congressmans. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahnamaraş MP Mahir Ünal; First-level Justice and Development Party Deputy Chairs Nurettin Canikli; Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş; İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı; Justice and Development Party Deputy Ahmet Aydın and Şemarmarash MP Ahmet Aydın; First-level Justice and Education Act; Vice-President of Law and Rize MP Hayati Yaşim Yaserı, 2 MPs; Minister of Higher Education Agency for Peace; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of the Council; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and Development; Ministers of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council; Minister of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council; Minister of State of the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council; We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. The following temporary clause is added to Law 11-1739. "Temporary Article 3 - Compulsory secondary school begins in 2012-2013 from the year of education-education. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is authorized to postpone the implementation of an education-school year." Namik Havut (Fishesir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0241par0150	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0238par0151	Speaking on the motion, Namik Havutça, Balıkesir MP, please.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0242par0153	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. My dear friends, as a teacher friend of yours who has spent twenty-six years training his life, in your advanced democracy, I complain to the Turkish people about your advanced democracy here today, where gas bombs have been thrown at them in Kızılay, tear gas bombs have been dropped on them, water has been sprayed on them.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0243par0156	That's what's behind it! They're throwing gas, these are! They're gassing!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0244par0157	It's you!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0242par0158	Now, when we first formed the unions, gas bombs were dropped on us in the Red Sea squares, but Turkey's democracy came to teach democracy in classrooms through the struggle of teachers. My dear friends, it's a famous proverb, you know: if you think about a year from now, if you think about a year from now, grow wheat, plant trees, think about a century from now, grow people, think about a thousand years from now, raise artists. The emphasis is this: That this country's children should be brought up for science, freedom, free thinking, production, and compete with other people in the modern world. In Article 2 of our Constitution, we have been defined how to raise a human being. We have to raise people who respect human rights, respect the principles and revolutions of Ataturk, which are democratic, secular, social, legal states, in accordance with those qualities of the Republic of Turkey, which our Constitution defines, and for many years we have raised our friends, students, who fit those qualities in our schools. The religious, the tolerant, the scientists, they grew up in these schools, and we all grew up in these schools. Look, for years, we've managed to get right-wing left-wing in the teachers' rooms, faith-less, non-believers, all of our friends and all of our teachers' table together. So remember, didn't a man who had left the same village before September 12, 1980, a cattleman's son, a peasant's child, have we not shed a lot of blood in this country, Uður Mumcu, and many of our intellectuals, have we not lost many people from the right and the left, my dear friends? So, now, we say that Turkey has seen this movie before. Look, in Çorum, in Marash, in Sivas, many of our people have broken into one another because of different distinctions, and we have lost the people of this country. Therefore, let us sow the seeds of peace, not hatred, in this land, in our schools, and sow the seeds of freedom, science, light, solidarity, tolerance. My dear friends, I would like to ask the Dear Minister of National Education if our teachers have fallen to the streets, did the unions fall to the streets, did the parents fall to the streets, did the students fall to the streets? What's the hurry? Yes, there were some flaws in the current uninterrupted education, there were flaws. For example, the closing of schools in our villages was extremely incomplete, and we have to fix it. Again, early in the morning, our young pups get into services at the age of five and move 20 miles [30 km], and we need to fix that. But it's not right for us to do it this way, and it has to be a transitional process. Just yesterday, we lost three children in a service accident in Warfell. Now, look, at the age of five, in a village 20 miles [30 km] from Bandirma, the mother will get up in the morning, dress her child, and send her child to class at 20 miles [30 km]. Come on, guys! Listen to our teacher friends, please. We're going too dangerous, our generations can't afford it, you can't. So, we're from you... yes, there's a lot of you, you're capable of anything. In fact, it's about this Parliament: this Parliament can't do a thing: it can't do a man or a woman. Other than that, it's true, but even in democracies, the King says: "I am king, but I can't do everything in my mind." My dear friends, one of the most important qualities of democracy, of course, is pluralism, a majority, but there are criteria that set its criteria from the French Revolution, and we didn't invent them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let us not betray the future of this country, but let us go to peace, love, honor, and solidarity. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0245par0169	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0246par0170	They're desperate. They're furious. They will not disobey his commandments, but will destroy the children.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0245par0171	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Justice and Development Party Deputy Chiefs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Heromarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of the First Education and Development Act for Change in Some Laws; Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's Proposition on the Law of Higher Education Institutions; Justice and Development Party MP Mustafa Eliseral and Turkey's Grand National Assembly; Minister of Justice and Vice President of the Constitution; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Developments of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Constitution and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers for the Constitution; Ministers of Justice and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Ministers; Ministers of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and of Justice and the Council; We would like to change the term "Temporary Article 3" into "Temporary Article 3" (also referred to in Article 2012-2013-2014) and the term "Education year" (also referred to in Article 2012-2013-2014) to "two years of education and education." Ali Longırmak (Admin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0247par0179	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0245par0180	Ali Longırmak wants to speak on the motion, Aydın MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0248par0183	Mr. President, I have made a promise in Article 11 of Proposition 199. I salute you all. Very dear friends, we are all members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is primarily the top body of the political institution and its top body. I'd like to start with a question right away: is it possible that, first of all, in the position of the Assembly today, that it can respond to expectations of itself in accordance with its basics? I want us to ask ourselves that. Number two: is he able to perform his functions in order and in accordance with the basics? If you are members of this institution to answer these questions in the spirit of conscience, then there is nothing I can say. I answer these questions no. Very valuable lawmakers, rulings, countries' governments should be sensitive to national unity. The most important benefit of the establishment of national unity is the enlargement of common values, the reduction of differences. Therefore, particularly the governments, the ruling majoritys, must produce policies that grow common values, shrink differences. So, today, here, from yesterday to today, when you're watching carefully at this time of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, are the policies that combine common values, enhance, enhance, improve, develop, or are the policies that divide, enhance, expand differences, develop? Even in this proposal that we're discussing today, unfortunately, the actions represent an understanding that shrinks our common values, makes a difference in politics, makes a difference in politics, leads to monopolies. A politician is not just a person, a person, a person, an institution, who leads a road, a water, an electrical service, but an institution that builds logic. Therefore, the right logic is not being constructed in Turkey today, dear friends. When we look from yesterday to today, the proposal, first of all, is to raise the common values of the nation, which are not in it, and even those who are left out, have to be convinced that a non-proposal clause has been proposed here, and a joke has been demanded, but there was no offer. When did he show up? When the talks on the Commission, after the tension, the chairman of the National Movement Party, Mr. Dr. State Garden, brought up a clause, which was in election statements and party programmes years ago, and then was attempted to be excluded by the AKP, while others were single-handed. I won't be able to say "Millei" here, but I'm celebrating the Minister of Education, who's been tariffed and replaced well. Of course, plagiarism is also an education. Stealing isn't just stealing carpets from mosques, dear friends, and plagiarism is a grand theft, so it's an activity theft, and it's a grand theft.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0249par0193	How many times has he explained it? There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0248par0194	So, here we are in the hands of the AKP, the National Movement Party...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0250par0195	Be respectful.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0248par0196	First you'll be respectful, then you'll ask for respect from us.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0250par0197	Don't give me that.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0248par0198	You're going to steal, and then you're going to say to the victim, "Be respectful. " Where's the respect in that? What part of that do you believe?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0251par0199	He's said it over and over again, he's explained it didn't happen.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0248par0200	You're the thief, dear friends, so you're the outsider.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0251par0201	It's a shame. It's a shame.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0252par0202	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0248par0203	So, dear friends, by criticizing February 28th yesterday, yesterday's soldiers have civilians. We see today's February 28th critics are the lead soldiers of civilians. You've become irrational, ignorant, lead soldiers.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0253par0205	Get out of here!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0248par0206	There are friends among you that we respect very much, but this bullet will not benefit the military, nor will it benefit you, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0254par0207	Mr. President, no one would insult a congressman like that.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0248par0208	So those who claimed that they had been wronged yesterday,
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0255par0210	Thank you, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0248par0211	...those who complained of persecution yesterday sit in their cruel seats today and continue this persecution, but it will not deter us. You can be sure of that.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0255par0212	Mr. Longitude, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0248par0213	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0255par0215	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Mr. Sakek, you have a request.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0256par0220	Mr. President, a well-known minister known for his indiscretions from the past two days ago, by insulting our people, we drown 75,000 people with spit. Now, I'd like to ask you: How did you figure out the number 75,000? How do you get the right to insult a public like that? More than 20 million Kurds live in this geography. He has democratic powers on his conscience. These people's saliva, by their will, is the will that determines who they spit in their face, and you can't determine. For that, you must apologize to us and our people.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0255par0221	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. However, what the Minister means, as far as I'm concerned, is that it's not just any people there. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0257par0224	Let him answer.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0258par0225	Let him answer for himself.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0259par0226	The Minister is here.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit02spe0260par0227	Minister, will you answer? No. Congressmans, it's 20 o'clock for the merger. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0260par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 199. [[Continue]] The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on the 12th article, which I shall have read according to the order of arrival, and according to their contradictions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahnamaraş MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister's Law and Development Party's Deputy Chairs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Berçkaplı; Justice and Development Party Chair Ahmet Aydın and Şeymaraş MP Ahmet Aydın and Şemir İnal; Chairman's Council of Justice and Education Act on Some Laws and Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's Office on the Law; Minister's Office of Justice and the Council of Justice and Development; Minister's Office of Justice and the Council of Justice and Development; Minister's Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers; Ministers of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Ministers; Ministers and the Council of the Council of Ministers of State of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of Ministers; We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Article 12-5/6/1986 was changed to more than 20 per cent in the first part of Article 18 of Article No. 3308. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Justice and Development Party Deputy Chiefs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Heromarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of the First Education and Development Act for Change in Some Laws; Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's proposal to make changes in the Law of Higher Education Institutions; Justice and Development Party MP Mustafa Elitaş; Minister of Turkey's Assembly and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; 5 People's Council of Ministers and 5 People's Laws Laws (Secretice of Laws) and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and Development (Secreetships) are under the Act; The Constitutional Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Constitutions (Secrations) and the Council of the Council of Ministerss of Justice and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of Ministers shall shall shall shall shall shall be under the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers; and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers shall be the Council of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers shall be the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers shall be the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers shall be We propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The first joke of Article 18 of vocational education code 3308, dated 12-5/6/1986, has been changed as follows. Businesses that employ 20 and more staff train vocational and technical education students, not less than 10 per cent of the staff they employ. In determining the number of students, fractions are a full statement." We propose and propose that the 12th Amendment of the 199th amendment be removed from the text of the Proposal. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0261par0022	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0260par0023	Sebahat Tuncel, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0262par0026	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we have made. I salute the General Assembly. I'll tell you the last thing I'm going to say: actually today, this bill must be withdrawn. There's still a chance. The AKP is forcing the government to propose a law without listening to the voice of the workers, the people of Turkey. We said yesterday: this is the earliest available in 2013-2014, so there's still time, there's still time to discuss. So we need to pull this out and have a really healthy discussion. Because our issue isn't just 4+4+4; our issue is the education system in this country; our issue is peace in this country, freedom in this country. So we're having new constitutional debates, we're thinking of changing Turkey all over again, from the educational system to the health system, against the economic system, but here we are fighting about changing this law. For what? He said "AKP," we did it for the sake of it. So even the title of this law is problem, so we're just dividing it by 4 plus 4 plus 4, we're trying to build buildings, we're dividing elementary school, middle school, high school. So even here, there's a commercial approach: we're going to build new buildings, we're going to build new educational institutions, how are we going to make more profit here? When we look at the content, for example, there's no demand for free education here. We will remove the classrooms, not the demand for free education. We will remove the examination system. We see how the education system is commercialized in Turkey under fancy words. Next semester we'll see private schools open. The children of poor, hardworking people barely go to school, and now we're going to bring it to the point where, let's say, rich people can study through private schools. Second of all, we've always said on this bench that the interim staff will be brought up in terms of neoliberal policy. Even when you look at the class point, it's a problem, so the children of the rich will study again, have academic careers, the poor will work as intermediaries. And even that, we want to express how much trouble this educational system itself is and how much it needs to be discussed. Again, the issue of primary language education is not even on the table. We're looking at the arguments that were just held here with great surprise. Now, there are talks of cultural differences, our wealth, but millions of Kurds living in this country, Turks, Laz, Çerkek, Armenian, Georgian -- we count here all the time -- the rights and freedoms of the peoples, there are no demands for education here. So, as for him, there's no question of their common values, how to live here, more like, here, there's a debate going on over current policy. A law without primary language education, without regulation, is of no use to Turkey. Come, withdraw this law from the beginning, because we won't be able to solve the problems here. One of the main problems of this country is the fact that the conflicting process has been eradicated, and the peace issue is related to that. If you can't even tolerate the education of the people you live with in the native language, how can we build a future together? There's no way to build an education system without thinking about it. Besides, the conversations we're having here, they're just a matter of public opinion. Mr. Binnaz Earth just told us that we're in a theatre square because we're in the AKP government raise your hand, lower it... and I'm watching, some of your deputies are raising their two hands yesterday, and I think a minister is raising his two hands, and there's no question of victory here, so there's a defeat here, so how can we suppress the matter of the people, the workers, the opposition, without listening to the voice of the opposition? Is that acceptable? What are you afraid of, what are you afraid of? Our deputies just told us that you're hurting workers, teachers, with gas, with batons, right next to us. A teacher friend of ours is in the hospital right now. Are you very pleased with that? Look, tomorrow is March 30th, the anniversary of the Indian massacre. Thirty years ago, this system wanted to destroy people who thought differently, who talked about democracy, revolution, socialism in this country. Not only on March 30, 1972, but in fact, in my class, in Zilan, in Sivas, in Madimak, in Madimak, we have seen it everywhere. But that mentality didn't succeed, you can't destroy it. Now, today, those people are resisting. Now, our congressman, Mr. Ertugrul Kürkcu, is speaking today, here, on this stand. You can't stand in the way of the fight that's going to develop, that's not possible. You're not the only one in the world. So what you have to do is listen to the differences. You say you're the most different, you make the most different interpretations. Where you're openings, I mean, we know what kind of policy you're running. Now, there's no point in making a change here without agreeing to it, lawmakers. We know that 4+4+4 is nothing more than an approach to this country to shut down its agendas, and it's a distraction to this theater. If we really were to change the education system, we could discuss the problems in this country's educational system, the racist, fascist attacks at universities, the university administrations, because they participated in a press release, we could discuss their immediate expulsion without a result in the courts. We could discuss nationalism, racism in elementary schools. We could discuss how Kurdish children and Turkish children are now living together, how they can't live together, especially in the west, in Edirne, in Thracea, where we can talk about how we can find a solution. But there's nothing here. We're just going to divide the education, we're going to do what we want on it, and with this system, we're going to say it's going to be, so there's no good for anyone, so there's no good for AKP. Today the AKP can use it for its own good, but I say it's no good to anyone, and I want you to support our motion.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0263par0038	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. Mr. Tuncel, I'd like to make a statement about the ministers raising their two hands. The reason is the second joke of Article 96 of the Constitution: The members of the Council of Ministers can give a minister the authority to vote instead of them during the session of which the Grand National Assembly of Turkey cannot attend. Only a minister can vote two votes with his own vote. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Justice and Development Party Deputy Chiefs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Heromarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of the First Education and Development Act for Change in Some Laws; Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's proposal to make changes in the Law of Higher Education Institutions; Justice and Development Party MP Mustafa Elitaş; Vice President of Turkey's Assembly and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Ministers of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Ministers of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers for Higher Education; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Ministers of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Councils of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State; We propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Article 12-5/6/1986, and Article 18 of Article 18 of Article 3308 of Occupational Education Law has been changed in the following way. ▪ Businesses that employ 20 people and more staff train vocational and technical education students, not less than 10 per cent of the staff they employ. In determining the number of students, fractions are a full statement." Muharrem Varlı (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0264par0050	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0263par0051	Adana MP Muharrem Varlı has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0265par0053	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 12th amendment of Law Proposal 199. On this occasion, I salute you all. With this law, a new education system is being brought in. There have been so many changes in your administration that we're surprised at which we're going to remember the education system, what we're going to raise the students on, what we're going to raise the students on, what we're going to raise our children on. With so many problems in education, you've started implementing a new system in every minister's term, and while you're implementing this system, I know, I've done it. You've brought a law proposal with attitude, and you're legalizing this law proposal with a majority of fingers. My dear friends, it's the principle of democracy to compromise. Unfortunately, after the 7th Amendment, you listened to neither the motions nor our friends who wanted to speak, and none of the motions were discussed. The motion we made in this proposal was far more extensive than the motion you made, but you yourself rejected our motion to open the middle parts of the imams, but you yourself, like this, accepted a proposal here, which is closer, even narrower than ours, to describe, to explain, to read, to teach, to give lessons related to the Qur'an, and to support you. That's not the need for democracy, friends. What's important in democracy is compromise. If you can achieve something by compromise, it's the right thing to do. So you've monopolized everything in Turkey, you've ruled out autonomous institutions with the amendment, you've monopolized them, you've monopolized the judiciary, you've monopolized the media, you've monopolized the media. Now, do you want to monopolize religious education as well? I mean, why did you reject the motion we gave you here, and then you had to renegotiate and force him to accept it here? Now, dear friends, there are many things in democracy that people have to do by compromise, by agreement. Education, for example, is the most important issue in the country. If you can't agree on education with those who agree with you, even those who share the same issues, what will we agree on? What are we going to do together here? I'll do it, fine. I'll say it. I've got lots of fingers. It's not democracy, my dear friends. Now, unfortunately, what you're doing here today is no different. I'd like to point out that I'm taking this with great regret. Again, come on, there's a lot of problems with teachers' salaries, so let's all work this out together. Again, teachers have a lot of problems with their union rights, unions have a lot of problems, problems. With pressure, with intimidation, you've made the unions virtually unworkable. If another union there is not in your opinion, if it is a union other than yours -- chief of the members there, managers there -- you have forced the other union members to resign and have them sign up to your own unions, your fellow unions, and you have made the union business unsustainable. It's not a culture of democracy, it's a culture of democracy to digest, it's a culture of democracy to accept. Unfortunately, you guys have a terrific indigestion and I have to admit it. Please give up this habit, and let us all make mutual decisions in matters of the country that concern all of us, and let us all serve this country in the right way. On this occasion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0266par0062	Thank you, Mr Varli. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Şemammarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of Justice and Development Party Group Chairs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Berçkaplı; Minister of Justice and Development Party Ahmet Aydın and Şeymaraş MP Ahmet Aydın and Şemir İnal; Minister of Justice and Education Act for Some Laws and Rize MP Hayati Yaşin Yaserı, 2 MPs; Minister of Higher Education Organizations of Higher Institutions Agency Act; Minister of Justice and Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Ministership of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of State of the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and Development; We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Ahmet Toptaş (Afyonkarahisar) and his friends Article 12-5/6/1986 was changed to more than 20 per cent in the first part of Article 18 of Article No. 3308. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0267par0072	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0266par0073	Ahmet Toptaş, MP of Afyonkarahisar, has asked for a statement on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Topstone.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0268par0076	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the 199th Amendment to the First and Education Act, and on the 12th Amendment to some Laws. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Dear friends, I regret to inform you that this proposal has been brought to the General Assembly of the High Assembly in a way that does not comply with the Constitution, the Civil Code, Parliament. It's an offer of disability with an absolute butt, and actually, it's not very pleasant for this House to be interviewed. What problem do we solve with the offer of my friends, the ruling party vice president? With this proposal, are we going to raise free people, raise people who question, raise people who internalize democracy? Does this offer solve the problem of our teachers, solve the problems of our teachers' essence? Does this offer solve our teachers' organizational problems? This offer doesn't solve any problems. What does this offer solve? This offer brings our nine-year-olds to study in separate classes in different schools as boys and girls, bringing them to play in separate school spaces.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0269par0079	Where is it?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0268par0080	We'll see, we'll live it together. What does this offer bring? This offer brings in an up-to-100-billion-dollar share, nothing but this. Dear friends, we have repeatedly explained that it is inappropriate for us to bring the education laws, which we consider more important than the Constitution. We said that this problem would be implemented in thirty, forty years of our country, and that it would organize the future of our country, that our children would have no future, that it would be in the interest of our country, or that it would be of no use to our country, that you would go on and on. You're trying to pass this law with violence and oppression in the House. You practice the same violence in the same areas. Now that you've taken shelter behind February 28th, you're coming out, you're saying that eight years of uninterrupted training in the shadow of the tanks, we bring it as 4+4+4 with the will of the people. You're showing that you're no different from the trainers who resist the offer you call an offer, the parents who want to make it more democratic, the ones who want to make it more modern, the ones who want to make it more modern, 200 meters ahead, in the Red Sea, in the blood revan, the police can, the gas, the pepper gas, the pepper gas, and the pepper gas, you're showing that you're no different from those who resist the offer. I thought you were a forward democracy. There was fascism, is your advanced democracy any different from Fascism on February 28th? Dear friends, you're declaring victory with applause, we've knocked over. You're applauding, you're trying to make it look like you've won a victory. You will not overthrow the revolution. We came from the tortures of March 12th, tortured by September 12th. You were sitting there, sitting there, or you were just kids, most of you. We resisted those coups, we resisted the laws of those coups, we expressed the demand for democracy against those coups in the squares, we fought against those coups. Now, do you think your cop's baton, bomb, pepper spray is going to stop, you think you've achieved it with those applauses? We will not have anyone dig up the foundations of the Republic. Dear friends, just so you know, I'm writing it down for history.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0270par0087	Just don't scratch it!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0268par0088	You will not be able to erase the achievements of the Republic, the revelation of Mustafa Kemal. The way we resisted that day on March 12th, the way we resisted on September 12th, that's how we're going to resist your March 11th coup. Believe me, in this country, there are people in this country who will defend democracy, modern thinking in this country, the bright era of Mustafa Kemal, the achievements of the light revolution. You can fool the people at some point, but it's never possible to fool the whole people. We've come to power by 50%. You say we do what we want. Kenan said, "I have come to power at 92.5 percent." Now, he is judged by his own laws. I would like to give you an example of the situation of Canaan's Universe. Don't let God bring this on you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0271par0090	Get out of here!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0268par0091	To give democracy to all of our heads, brains, and hearts. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0272par0094	Thank you, Mr. Topstone. Under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I believe no member of parliament has a problem with the republic's achievements.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0273par0097	Bravo, Mr. President, bravo!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0272par0098	I submit the motion to your votes... those in favor...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0274par0099	That's what you were going to say when the motion was being discussed.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0272par0100	Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes:
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0275par0102	You can't save yourself by trying to fix things like this.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0272par0103	Those who don't agree... Matter accepted.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0276par0105	You were supposed to say that at the time of the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0277par0106	Mr. President, you're losing your neutrality by participating in the debates within the House when you should be acting objectively under the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0272par0107	There are three motions on the 13th article, which I will have read according to the order of arrival and process according to their contradictions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Justice and Development Party Deputy Chiefs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Heromarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of the First Education and Development Act for Change in Some Laws; Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's Proposition on the Law of Higher Education Institutions; Justice and Development Party MP Mustafa Eliseral and Turkey's Grand National Assembly; Minister of Justice and Vice-Secures of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Ministers of Justice and Developments of Justice and Development; Minister of the Constitution and the Council of Ministers of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Ministers for Higher Education; Ministers of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Councils; Ministers of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council; We would like to change the first education and middle education declaration of the Article into the form of elementary education and secondary education. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahnamaraş MP Mahir Ünal; First-level Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chairs Nurettin Canikli; Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş; İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı; Justice and Development Party Deputy Ahmet Aydın and Şeymaraş MP Ahmet Aydın; First-level Justice and Education Act; Central Council of Ministers and Rize MP Hayati Yaşim Yaserı, 2 MPs; Minister of Higher Education Agency for Peace; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council; Minister of Justice and the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers; Minister of State of State of State of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council; Minister of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council; We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. We propose and propose that Article 13 of the 199 bill be removed from the proposal text. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0278par0117	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0272par0118	Pervin Buldan, Iğdır MP, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Buldan. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Congressmans, I'm stating that the last two motions are of the same nature, and I'm going to process them in the same way. Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0279par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're discussing the controversial clauses of the 199 rows of the controversial law proposal. I'd like to point out from here that no one has the right to darken the future of our children, our young, their bright tomorrows, but all the AKP government has done is ruin the lives of workers, workers, women, young people, children. You're playing with this law with the future of our children, lawmakers, but you know very well those who go under in this country when they're young. Children who lost their lives due to state negligence or deliberate behavior. When talking about education and education in this country, the first indicator is the importance of human life in that country. The right of life is sacred, and for no reason can it be interfered with by any power, including the state. In one country, any changes to education in that country are meaningless, especially when children without criminal licenses are being interfered with as a result of the state's negligence or deliberate attitude. December 27, 2011, the location is Şırnak Uludere Roboski. Near this village, with intelligence from Israeli Herons, the F-16s bombed 34 of our civilian citizens, including children. 19 of 34 civilians were children. Özcan Uysal was eighteen years old, Mehmet Uysal was fifteen years old, Shervan Encu was sixteen years old, Cemal Encu was sixteen years old, Şıvan Encu was fourteen years old, Bilal Encu was fifteen, Mahsum Encu was sixteen, Salih Encu was seventeen years old, Adam And fifteen years old, Çetin Encu was twelve years old, Berdan Encu was twelve years old, Aslan Ençı was fifteen years old, Jahan Ençı was sixteen. Four of the murdered children were in elementary school. It wasn't just the children who were killed in Uludere who were killed because of the state's negligence or intentional attitude. In the past six years, 59 children have lost their lives due to the negligence or deliberate attitude of the state. Yes, Uğur Kaymaz was killed in Mardin at the age of 12. Shilan Demir was killed at the age of six in Diyarbakır. At the age of nine, Abdullah Duran was also killed in Diyarbakir, Ceylan Önkol at the age of twelve. These kids couldn't go to school, and these kids couldn't do anything to you in this world, but rest assured, Congressmans, these kids will have two hands on your necks in the next world. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0280par0130	Thank you. It's Aytug Atıcı, Mersin MP who wants to talk about the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0281par0134	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding Article 13 of Law Proposal No. 199. I salute all free-willed lawmakers. [[The sounds of the AK PARTY]] I said hello to the free-willed MPs. If it's not you, I don't salute you. Congressmans, what do we say in our motion? Remove the 13th article from the text. What does the 13th article say? The eight years of uninterrupted elementary education and secondary education have been replaced and the eight years of uninterrupted terms in the matter have been removed from the text of matter, he says. Now remember at that time in the Commission when the human dimension of that period was still high, we were able to talk. We told you, what was the first time the offer was made before it went to the subcommittee? In the second four years, there was open teaching. We went down to the subcommittee, came in, picked it up. In the second four years, they had vocational schools, they came and went. I told you, man, it's all over, why do you still want to divide it, there's no foundation left in the compartment, so why are you interrupting? You said: "We will set up an elective lesson." We said, "Put it on our heads, put it on our heads, from the divide." We said, "You didn't answer, you couldn't, but today your true face has appeared." In those days, you knew the answers to these questions, you were silent, you were sneaky. What do you want, you have to say it bravely. Do you want to finish the congregation schools with these maneuvers? Go out and tell them that we use all religious maneuvers to finish congregation schools. What do you want? Go forth, speak openly, and speak valiantly, if you have courage. Go out to the fifth grade, and we will release the headscarf of girls who have taken a new step into puberty. Say, "Go out, say it, say it valiantly, manly, ladyly, why can't you say it, come out?" Don't sneak up on him, start talking behind his back, and then try to take it under the table with a couple of motions. Look, the bottom line is, you're actually doing three things with this offer, Congressman. One, you're using our holy religion to politics. The whole world saw it today.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0282par0142	Don't mention it!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0281par0143	It's all over the place. Two, you feed education to politics. Three, you're taking the goods off our kids. Now that you have made the use of religious politics, Allah will ask you for it, and we cannot ask you for it. The Republican People's Party will charge you for doing two and three, for feeding education to politics, and for taking the goods off the kids. (CHP clapping in rows) Write that down.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0283par0145	People are asking, people are asking.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0281par0146	The Republican People's Party will ask with the people's hands. Don't worry, they'll ask with the people's hands. Look how you're taking the goods. What's the matter? He touched it, didn't he? He touched me when I said you were moving the stuff. See how you're taking the goods: we told you in the commission, brother, why did you bring in the tablet contract? Did a servant of God come forward and answer? Come out, answer me, more on the stand, he's waiting for you. What's he doing in training, you're taking the goods away from here. A servant of God couldn't answer us. Look, the second way you take the goods, look, you need 65,000 new classrooms in schools that you've taken to two levels. WHEN you look at the accounts of the TOKI (TİKİ), 20 billion Turkish liras are required. How's that for good money? It's tempting, isn't it?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0284par0148	We'll do that. You don't understand.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0281par0149	Of course you will, Congressman. Of course you will, with all due respect, but there's something far worse. Money comes and goes. What happens? You eat, and the land wins again, but you try to cover all this filth with the Qur'an, which is worse than all of them, and you try to cover it up with the Qur'an, and our people will ask you again. Look, don't worry about no money, you have a do-and-do model; private schools, sir, you can do it through buying education, you can do it with a do-and-do, we're giving advice. You take out the VAT and you get a runt. This is your true self. This is your true intention. You have nothing to do with faith. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Again, I salute the free-willed MPs with love.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0285par0153	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0286par0154	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0285par0155	A moment ago, the speaker directed an opinion, conviction, insult, which was all over his mind's mind to our group.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0286par0156	What did he say and insult you?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0285par0157	Mr. President, he's insulted me so much...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0286par0159	Congressmans, don't mind me, I didn't ask you, I asked Mr. Canikli, he has to answer. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0285par0161	He's got no idea what he's doing, no idea what he's doing, no idea what he's doing, no idea what he's doing, no idea what he's doing.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0286par0163	Mr. Canikli, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0287par0167	Why is that tablet computer purchase being taken out of the Public Contraction Act? Tell me about it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0288par0170	We'll tell it, we'll tell it, we'll tell it all.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0287par0171	Tell me how many dimes there are in there.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0288par0172	Of course, how to serve, how to serve, how to accomplish...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0287par0173	What kind of service is received?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0288par0174	It would be an amazing thing to think of another way, to perceive it in a way that has not taken its share from here, has never thought about it in his life, and to think about it in a way that has not been assigned to him by the people.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0289par0176	Tell me about Giresunspor, Giresunspor.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0288par0177	Look, guys, now, some of your friends -- I'm sorry -- they see minds, ideas, everything, as abuse.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0290par0178	Pass it, pass it...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0288par0179	Don't you understand something else?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0290par0180	Let's take it into the Public Contraction Act, why are you taking it out?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0288par0181	Don't you think of anything else? Is there just abuse in your life to take it away? Can't you think of anything else? I'm sorry, but we have to say this. He doesn't have any papers, he doesn't have any physical evidence, but here he is, talking nonsense. I'm sorry, if you have any evidence, any documents. (CHP lines, there are.) So, you see every service, every tender, every transaction, every government action, every government spending as abuse...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0291par0182	Look, could you ask the Minister behind you for the document?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0288par0183	...you look at it as how we can drink it, and you look at it as how we can take it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0291par0184	Ask the Minister of Development about the document, it was on the front page of the newspaper two days ago.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0288par0185	If not, you'll see that they're actually being brought in to solve a problem in order to do it for service. Please clear your minds, clear your brains, please... there is no such thing.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0291par0187	Ask the minister, ask the Minister of Development.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0288par0188	Do you have any documents, any information? You're just slandering me, insulting me, and you're just a mufter. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0292par0191	You're the mufter!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0293par0192	Thank you, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0294par0193	Mr. President, Mr. Canikli said to clean your brain. Our brains, our hearts, our consciences are clean. Look, my sentence is clear, and if he doesn't understand, I'll tell you again: there's a Koran in this law, and there's a ban on it. You've mixed the Koran with the forbidden. We call it, that's clear.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0295par0195	Where, where?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0294par0196	Come on, come on, answer me. Why are you excluding the Public Contraction Act?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0295par0197	We'll explain when the time comes, we'll respond.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0294par0198	Why, why? Explain that.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0295par0199	We'll tell him.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0294par0200	You're mixing the Koran with the forbidden.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0295par0201	We'll tell him.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0296par0202	You didn't come this far, now you're gonna tell me!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0295par0203	We'll tell him to bring in the stuff.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0297par0204	Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice President, I'm taking the money. He asked you to speak because I said so. He came out, he said the same things to us, don't you think about anything else by referring to me? You're looking at how we're gonna take it. Clean your brains. He said.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0298par0205	Mr. Slim already answered on behalf of the group, made the necessary statement.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0297par0206	Sir, it's not about the group.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0299par0207	He told the shooter himself.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0297par0208	▪ Some of you answered the speech I gave.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0300par0209	No, please, Congressman, but on behalf of the group, Mr. Slim has made a statement.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0297par0210	Mr. President, Mr. Fine has made a statement on behalf of our group, but the matter that has been addressed to me...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0300par0211	No, he didn't say it to you, he said it on behalf of the group, we listened to him. And on behalf of the group, Mr. Slim has made his statement.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0301par0212	No, sir, he told himself.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0297par0213	No, please... I mean, he told me what I told him, you let him, you let me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0300par0214	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0297par0217	For God's sake, when you get up here, you're the deputy president of the whole group, I told you...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0300par0218	Please, let's not make a scene.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0297par0219	Look, I pointed something out, and I said, "Get out, explain this tablet business. A servant of God didn't explain it. I said it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0302par0220	We'll explain when the matter comes in, we'll talk about it when the matter comes in, the matter comes in.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0297par0221	He's taking me away, sir, instead of coming out and explaining to me...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0302par0222	Let the matter come in...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0297par0223	Whoa! What is this, Mr. Canicli?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0302par0224	Do you have a document? Do you have a document, based on what?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0297par0225	What is this, not a ride? Why didn't you come out here and explain?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0302par0226	Based on what, do you have a document, a scholar?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0297par0227	Dear friends, here, we have a national education...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0302par0228	Who took what? Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0297par0229	Shame on you?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0302par0230	Of course it is. Tell me who, where he took it, give me a name. Who took what?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0297par0231	What is this tablet auction, Mr. Canicli?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0302par0232	Who took what?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0297par0233	Why did you take out this tablet contract?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0302par0234	Tell me if you have any documents, information, tell me who took it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0297par0235	Here, you wrote to the law with your own hand, you're one of those who proposes the law.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0302par0236	You're talking nonsense.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0297par0237	You took these, the tablets, you took them out of the tender. You're the one who wrote this and you're the one who proposed.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0302par0238	Scholar, do you have a document? Based on what?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0297par0239	Come on, I didn't propose. You offered it with your own signature.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0302par0240	Based on what? Make a bet and we'll answer it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0297par0241	Based on your proposal for the law, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0302par0242	That person took it. Say it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0303par0243	Let's get him into the tender law. What are you afraid of? Let's make a motion.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0297par0244	You take care of your own signature, you take care of your own signature, first look at what you've done.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0302par0245	I take care of it, you know what you're talking about, you know what you're talking about.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0297par0246	You proposed this law, and you said you'd put these tablets out of contract. Religion, faith, Koran, books are all excuses, you have one desire; how do I take the goods? Nothing else.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0304par0248	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0305par0249	Mr. Secretary will explain. Has the telecom been paid without contract or not?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0306par0250	Mr. President, I want to know if Canikli is involved in this tender. Explain, Canikli, whether the companies that Canikli is counseling are in or not, Canikli.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0304par0256	Congressmans, I submit to your votes the motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Justice and Development Party Deputy Chiefs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Heromarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of the First Education and Development Act for Change in Some Laws; Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's proposal to make changes in the Law of Higher Education Institutions; Justice and Development Party MP Mustafa Eliseral and Turkey's Parliamentary Assembly; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers for Higher Education; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Developments of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Constitutional Affairs of the Constitution and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers; 5 People of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Constitution; 5 People of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers; We propose that the term "first and secondary school" mentioned in the Article be changed to "forced elementary school and secondary school." Seyfettin Yilmaz (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0307par0264	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0304par0265	Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0308par0268	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Interference in the structure of a educational system is intended to shape the future of society. The desire to rebuild the system with each term is dangerous for the continuity of the nation. Societys hold on to the future through its continuity, not through its temporaryness. Unhistoric institutions are doomed to be history. According to every government or minister, the Turkish nation faces the attitude of being forced to acquire an identity, an education, a date, a belief or a value system. Governments come and go, education systems go, values change, technologies are renewed, current trends come and go, but identities and ideals remain a guide and inspiration. You can't raise an identity and personality generation with a system of perpetually modified, removed, renewed, or off-the-axis education. An educational system that has no moral, national, human, and moral value, no matter what structure and tool it uses, raises a selfish person who pursues the needs of his own, not the needs of his own. Education is vital to the future of society, and it can never be used as an instrument of ambitions, passions, obsessions and feelings of revenge. Any understanding that brings education down to the tool of rematching, not only crippled, but dangerous. The Prime Minister, who knows everything better than anyone, has ordered this bill to be implemented by the AKP Group. Turkey will learn from its experience the problems caused by the new practice. In a country where even the Minister of National Education is not an educator, it may be thought that drafting a draft law on education is an ordinary job by non-educators, but it isn't. There should be eight years of mandatory training, 12 years of cut-off training, workshops, panels, conferences, they don't exist in the middle. The work and thinking of academic circles, civil society organisations related to education are not present. This bill, which will radically change education, does not appear to be included in books, magazines, and articles. On a three - page basis written on paper, AKP's request to radically change a country's education system is antidemocratic and non-democratic. More specifically, that attitude is unique to February 28th. The power elites of power have personally put into practice the attitude of these February 28th who they've criticized and wanted to transform. Excessive politicalisation of the issue, and the act of spite and vengeance, shows that the changes and reform moves that we hope for in national education cannot be made. AKP's uncompromising, selfish, non-cooperative politics will lead to new and bigger problems in our education. I regret to say that millions of our children and their families are frustrated and anxious because of the struggle and tension caused by the AKP. It is in the square where the prime minister is shaped by the evening bed and the morning rise, embodying it with the expression ▪4+4, and first of all, the proposal called reform in education has a fundamental content. The ideological concerns, the political accounts, have moved ahead of the needs of education, and what our children and future generations are going to be like has been essentially never been brought to light. The linking of views on the educational system to February 28th and the execution of its views in the privacy of imam-wits is another result of AKP abuse by nature. As a party, we measure and adjust the political practices of the AKP, as ugly and unacceptable as we find the biased and dictated approach of February 28th. The AKP mentality clearly creates its own February 28th, and it continues to be unfair. Yesterday, democracy had tanks in its head, and today, AKP's sledgehammer stops. The imam-members were the target yesterday, and today they are the center of abuse. The presence of the imam-members is satisfactory. Our president is very clear: if you're sincere, let's open up the middle part of the imam-gap high schools together, let's get the Qur'an educated in schools, let's solve the headdress of girls in higher education.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0309par0276	We're open, we're open.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0308par0277	Yes, you're saying we were hungry, but these were not in the law proposal you brought in.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0309par0278	There was, you didn't understand.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0308par0279	When the leadership of the National Movement Party and the members of the National Movement Party brought this up, you came up with this offer with four hands, because the advantages of your abuse were taken from you. Even though we brought in a more comprehensive version, you refused. Now, as the nationalist movement party, we're always ready to do what people expect, we're always there.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0309par0281	Why didn't you do it when you were in power?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0308par0282	In doing such great work, the removal of the runt-scented tablet contract from the Public Contraction Act is unlawfully mixed with the legal system.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0310par0284	Were we in power alone, Ahmet Yeni?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0308par0285	Look, you always say what Sheikh Edebali said to Osman Gazi, but the Lord Allah... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do not act upon those of your servants who do not follow your words. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0311par0290	Ten years, ten years. Ten years and you still haven't solved it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0312par0291	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one have been completed. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter covers the 14th and 27th article. Ahmet Duran Bulut, Balıkesir MP who has asked for the National Movement Party Group on the second chapter. Here you go, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0313par0300	Mr. President, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I'd like to talk to you about the second part of the relevant law, and I'm expressing my thoughts. Dear lawmakers, if we begin to evaluate this bill that many of you have learned in the General Assembly, even before the opinions of the relevant experts are fully prepared, without being fully prepared, even before you get the opinion of the relevant experts, that many of you have learned in the brochures that have been distributed to you, that you will then take back and delete the mandates of Mr. Prime Minister and change the age of the opposition that you disregarded, that you don't value his opinion, that he stands on the importance of this bill, that if you set a few of these points, you leave a serious threat to compromise at these points, before we go into agreement, which we say, with the coercivests's proposals, even then you'll be able to change the age of school age to change the understanding of Prime Minister's work, to fuel, to fuel, to fuel our education, to fuel our education, as we'll deal with the process. Dear lawmakers, there are about 400,000 highly intelligent children in Turkey, whom we call superior children, whom the system has identified so far. Only 10 per cent of these children are tried to improve their knowledge, skills, skills, and skills, not just in schools, but in places that are called science, art centers, and are very few in Turkey. In big countries like America, Russia, in powerful countries, in superstates, the detection of children with superior minds is the most important element of education. Our system ignores them. These children, who really need special education and support while providing special education for children who need special education, this system, the bill that was brought in, gives them no place. Preschool education should have been mandatory, but I don't know who put it out of the system again, in the form of 4+4+4, which is why it's not different; what scientific data, information, findings, such a design, such a number, such a number, I don't know, forced you to bring such a process. One of the elders I know, after 60 revolutions, when he went to the Ministry of National Education, I saw strangers at the Ministry of National Education, and I asked him: "Who are these?," they said to me. When I said, "What is he doing in the Ministry of National Education of these American experts?," they said, "They are creating a new education system." The government's example, although in 177 countries in the world, the age of starting school is six and seven years old, and whichever country he imitates reduces it to five years old. Even though all the scientific data determines the development of a child's hand muscles for 72 months, you insist on 60 months. Sixty-month-olds may be appropriate in those countries where children's healthy diet has already been developed, because the economic levels of children are being followed one by one by one, their intellectual development, their physical development has already been developed, but at the age of five, how are you going to train the children of these families at the age of play -- 20 million villagers living under the hunger limit in Turkey, 10 million pensioners, 2 million employees, 6 million unemployed in an environment where their number is nearing 6 million people? What can you give these kids in this school? What kind of teacher can give these children that you try to train in the same environment as the older ones? You'll see it live, maybe not here, but you'll see it outside. What you're doing is going to be a lost generation in Turkey as a generation of Turkish national education, and a few years from now -- not ten -- you're going to try to change that again. It's the mind's way. Despite knowing how wrongly this system was done in the time of Vehbi Dinçer, which had previously been implemented, we returned there with stubbornness. I don't know who's pushing this. Dear lawmakers, Turkey already lacks a great deal of education. When we look at the number of schools in Turkey where the 1st, 2th, 3th, 3th graders meet, where one teacher teaches these classes, there are 10,413 classes, 8.437 schools. We can't move the body, you bring a new system on top of the body as if you're adding something new, something different. You're not doing this to fix the situation, you're doing this to cause chaos for good. According to the current Ministry of National Education, 108 thousand teachers are needed in the system. With 63,000 paid teachers, which are paid under the age of hunger, who are paid for, but who go to those schools, who go to school with help from their parents, who we almost call the workers of education, what plan, which program, whatever method you bring in, is not possible to succeed. Mr. Minister, the Innovator is making some innovations in the Ministry. It has its advantages, its useful work, but we're losing the memory of education, we're not getting any experience from yesterday, and we're trying to drag our future into an unknown unknown. We're expressing the error of that. In every environment, as the National Movement Party, we tried to mature this bill in commissions, the main opposition party tried to mature it with the same emotions, but the government, however stubbornly brought no proposal, no criticism, no criticism, to the General Assembly. He's gonna get out of here. Yes, perhaps it will have to be changed by the fact that this law has finally been restored, brought back here, regardless of the criticism of many of the issues that will be useful to education. We're going to drop the university exams, the Prime Minister says. You brought the bill, why don't you take it down? Our kids are taking the college exam on Sunday. The parents, the kids, they're so excited. I wish them all the best from here. They enter the university to postpone their unemployment for four or five years. As 300,000 teachers expect work, our children will go to college, and they will go to the unknown again in this system. If we're gonna do a job, let's do it right, it's dated here. As lawmakers of the 24th century, something was supposed to come up with its power, its opposition, but you forced it, you put it at a dead end, the ruling lawmakers. I can't believe you decided on your own volition. I wish the bill would bring blessings to our country again. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0314par0310	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Now, it's time to speak for the Peace and Democracy Party's Party, the Adjutive Kurd., Hakkari MP. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0315par0313	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to share some data with you, and then I'll try to evaluate it from my own heart. In Azerbaijan, of 8 million, the printing circulation of a book is 100 dollars, and in Turkey, 75 million, the printing circulation of a book is between 2,000 and 4,000. Only 70,000 people in 75 million Turkey are regular readers. Our rate of regular newspaper readers is 22 percent. In Japan, one person reads 25 books a year, reads 10 books in Switzerland, read 7 books in France. How many books does a person read in Turkey of 75 million people a year, and I'll share it with you: average, one book reads in ten years. I will continue the data: 14 per cent of the people in Japan are regular readers of books, 12 per cent regular readers of books in the United States, 21 per cent regular readers of books in England and France, 1 per 10,000 readers of books in Turkey!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0316par0317	You might want to call the House, the lawmakers.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0317par0318	So do they get books from the library or not?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0315par0319	Now, these data are data from eight months ago, the current data, in fact, from Turkey. In this bill -- the bureaucrats of our National Ministry of Education are actually aware of this data. We all know that these data -- I think they've come to the conclusion that the pen doesn't work in our country, that the pen is no longer a tool, it doesn't work, so let's put something else in the bag that's good in our kids' purses. They said, "What should we put in?" They replaced the pen with the screwdriver, put in the pliers, put in the crowbar. When this bill is accepted, we'll be putting these in our children's bags instead of pencils. This data, in fact, shows that in Turkey, as the Minister said, we need a radical reform, not a reform in the education system. A radical reform is required, but a radical reform is not possible with this proposal of law. Because we've been arguing about it for three days, and instead of expressing, unfortunately, the content of its content, rather than expressing an idea towards enriching the curriculum size, there's a lot of debate here on the form of change, trying to send a lot of greetings to the voters. If we really want our education system to be a modern, democratic, secular education system, then we'll put aside the monotheistic mentality in our educational system, we'll put aside monotheism; we'll reject assimilation in our education system, we'll express that there should be no assimilation; we'll say this should happen. In our education system, we have to defend that children should have guidance, educational aspects, or need to be focused on, not to make them into a system of information storage, but we are here because our children don't already perceive the world, they don't understand the world, they don't understand the world, and instead we think what's best, we decide what's going to happen to them. We're looking for a way to put a mortgage on their will and their will. It's not about 4+4+4. The way this system was brought in, the way it was discussed, certainly there will be no cure for the problems of the education system in Turkey, nor will there be any medicine for anything. You have to stop looking for the mystery of the educational system in sequences of numbers. The solution is to go to a radical change of mentality in the educational system. We need to capture this change of mind. In Turkey, my dear fellow lawmakers, there are so many things that have been said about assimilation policies, there are so many things that have been said about assimilation, about the victimification of assimilation. You all have children, many of you have grandchildren. As a Kurdish, I ask you: If we had made your children say that every morning in the schools, would you have accepted it, let my presence be a gift to the Kurdish presence. Would you really accept it? Why don't you give up this cruelty? Why should my child, the Kurdish child, be subjected to this persecution every day, every morning, present his existence to the existence of your children?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0318par0327	You're discrimination, discrimination. You do the racism yourself.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0319par0328	That's something else...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0315par0329	I am not a Turk, sir. I am a Kurdish citizen of the Republic of Turkey. If that's how you see yourself, that's your problem. I am a Kurdish citizen of the Republic of Turkey. You have to accept it that way, and my child can't give your child yours. You can't do this to my child. That's cruelty, that's remorse. We need to get ahead of this. If you really needed a reform in the educational system, if you really didn't want to create a system that would be turned into a puzzle board again, we would have to solve this with a liberal, democratic mentality. It shouldn't have happened like this. What's going on with you guys arguing about it like this, you solve the problem? No, you're not. In fact, right now, with this system being brought in like this, you're putting up a mortgage on new constitutional studies. This is also an intervention in the content of new constitutional studies. If you really wanted to build the democratic education system, then we have constitutional studies ahead of us, we have new constitutional studies, you would have brought this system after the constitutional studies were done, and we would have had the opportunity to discuss the educational system as much as we discussed the Constitution. This way, we wouldn't have to redesign or renovate the education system the next time the minister changes or changes power. By doing so, we steal the future of our children. Look, we're not going into any of the other details. But it is not the duty of this Assembly to bring such a matter to an end without its blood, without its content, without its content, undisputed content, to the future of this country, where it will move its future, where it will turn the course. You guys need to intervene in the first place. This isn't supposed to happen like this. There are educators among you. You know very well that this system is not going to work this way, it's going to cause problems. But since you can't argue, because there's no way to argue, that's how it ended, and now we're making a law that's crippled. We're putting a crippled system ahead of our children. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0320par0335	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Metin Lütfi Baydar, Aydın MP. Here you go, Mr. Baydar.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0321par0339	Mr. President, I'd like to begin by condemning the government and the minister who gave the order to our teachers who wanted to speak to power on the streets of Turkey. (CHP cheers) I'd like to give a poem to our teachers, our activist teachers: ▪ They are enemies of hope, my beloved, "And your water floweth forth, By the tree when it grows full of fruit, He's the enemy of life that flourishes. Because death has branded them on their foreheads: -producing teeth, spilled meat... They'll disappear and never come back. And of course, darling, of course, He's gonna walk around, he's gonna walk around, he's gonna walk around, he's gonna walk around, he's gonna walk around, he's She'll walk around in her most glorious dress, in a working suit Freedom in this beautiful land... [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, your perception of life depends on where you look at it. You don't see life from a good place. This bill, largely based on the grounds for vocational education, was designed without thinking about the needs of society and without creating enough discussion. In many criticisms here, we also had the opportunity to see it in its place. The solutions you're referring to are far from meeting the expectations of crowded classrooms in vocational education and basic education, the serious sexism of vocational education, the serious low participation of female students in vocational education, the lack of vocational education and training, the lack of contact with employment needs, the preparation of the curriculum without discussing its vocational rooms. To justify 12 years of mandatory education, a justification for turning children into professions is intended to cover up the actual changes. Given the structure and quality of the existing education system in Turkey, there is no scientific basis for forcing a ten-year-old to choose in professional areas. In this age group, where abstract thinking has not yet been established, that interest and abilities have not been determined enough, it is an irreparable mortgage on the future of our children. It's nothing more than an authoritarian fascist practice to be subjected to direct such a decision at an individual age that will affect the lives of students. In this law, the problem is not to strengthen and attract vocational education, but the problem is different. For the same reason, eight years of education is divided into 4+4, and vocational and religious education is tried to be reduced to even smaller ages, despite the fact that the value structure of man is not yet established, and that eight years of education are divided into 4+4, despite the basic moral norms and social rules of conduct. If your only concern was the education of religion, don't touch the gains of eight years of education, let's discuss the education of religion, let's discuss it however you want, let's organize it. When we said, "You came, you refused." The main goal here is to deceive our citizens and raise a voter to yourself by promising to raise a religious generation -- in a sense, not fundamentally -- in a sense. Our country has enough schools to raise religious people, but from these schools, Ankara and several other developed provinces have serious teachers and resource problems. The streets are full of unemployed teachers. You can't find a teacher in these schools to teach science and science, foreign language lessons. To see that, all you have to do is visit the imam-hatip high school of any county, any county. Students who study at Imam-student high schools feel separated and left out because of the policies you've been implementing for ten years. You're doing this on purpose so they don't leave your side. You're polishing the subject as developing education in the profession, but you're trying to carry out a spiteful generation and a constituent-growing project. You're putting people to sleep. You also legitimized discrimination with the so-called conservative democratic policies you've been following. Because of gender discrimination, girls do not attend high school. They won't be able to continue to level 2 through you with formula 4+4. This law envisions an application that violates eight years of training in great effort. Let's set up vocational education according to the needs of the community, and we'll discuss it. We said, "You didn't go near it again." In Turkey, vocational education can't be treated as just a step-up tool, separated from higher education and employment markets. A vocational education must have a continuity that will match universities. Thematic regional universities should be opened to strengthen regional development and give direction to management. Among organised industries, clusters must be created along with vocational education. The manpower needed by today's societies cannot be created by the logic of vocational high school alone. Therefore, for the opening of thematic regional universities, what you've been saying for ten years but haven't done, a new regulation must be lifted, a training campaign must be launched in our country. If you divide eight years of education in two, you will reduce the schooling to the 3rd grade. Since there are different types of schools in the 2nd grade, the central exam system will be inevitable, the children will go to the classroom starting in the 2nd and 3rd grade. According to the TED survey, 16.7 billion, higher education and universities have doubled their budget in 2010 to prepare for the parents' entrance exams to high school and universities. You've been in power for ten years, and during your rule, there hasn't been a single single step towards a solution to the problem of foreign language. Foreign language courses have become a huge business because of the system, which has taught most foreign languages and still can't teach languages. In education, the AKP makes a mistake, such as solving vocational education through imam-members. Of course, vocational education is vital to national development and the need for increasing intermediaries. The amendment to your 9th amendment is not a matter of religion. And you don't care about the religious generation. You want cloned young people who perceive life the way you do, and you want cloned voters. (HIP) You want an education that will lift the tide and bring the hilaphate, dynamite the secular republic, but this law will return from the people. You will remain under the law of education that you have brought to destroy the name of the Republic of Turkey without changing its name. In education, isn't logic, the AKP, that only takes vocational education into the Middle Ages, leading to the collapse of the Ottomans, away from a rational education needed by scientific society and the economy? When the conqueror conquered Istanbul, did he not first bring with him scientists and libraries to Istanbul? Didn't the conqueror make the Ottoman state of the world by bringing up scientific thought when Europe was condemned to the skollastic and religious-based education? You say we're so Ottomans, but you imitate the Ottoman abuses. So, be careful, you'll collapse.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0322par0364	They're already down.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0321par0365	Your logic is always the same. You make the law out of thinking about how I don't get caught in corruption. It's not religious to come like Aaron, to be Karun, to say Rabbi, to fill your pockets, to take words, to take tenders, to sleep with the nation hungry, to be religious, dear friends. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0323par0368	Thank you. Naci Bostancı, MP of Amasya, who has asked for a personal word on the department.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0324par0371	I wanted to say something on behalf of the group. Mr. President, I have a request on behalf of the AK PARTY Group.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0323par0372	There's no demand for word on behalf of the group. Mr. Naci, please.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0325par0374	Mr. President, distinguished members, I salute you all. I live in the back. In fact, sitting in the back is a very functional place to monitor these negotiations, because the language used during these talks in the General Assembly, which is part of the negotiations, is a language we ask for patience in the front. If you tell me what's in this language, what's in it: moralism, remorse, shamelessness, shamelessness, lead soldiering, ceberutism, totalitarianism... while listening to all this...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0326par0376	Whatever language you speak!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0325par0377	There's a method in communication sciences called a rhetorical analysis; who, what, what are they talking about, what concepts, an analysis of this. Indeed, I think it would be very instructive for all of us if there was an academic study of these Parliamentary reports and the language of power and opposition were considered in this regard. Dear friends, negotiations go on everywhere, negotiations go on anyway. It's not a negotiation. It's actually a negotiation, even when it's called a negotiation. In order to intervene in power relationships, man uses a wide variety of possibilities of language. The insults are part of the negotiation, but the way you speak it, the way you speak it, the way you speak it, the way you form it, the negotiation, the framework.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0327par0379	Tell it that way, Hodja, we've learned it, tell it that way!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0325par0380	These negotiations, of course, will reach compromises on some issues and compromises on others. What we call compromise, basically, is to agree on certain issues, and to acknowledge that we cannot agree on certain issues. If we were to agree on everything, there wouldn't be separate parties, separate rhetoric, separate approaches, separate political and social circles. The issues we agree on are basically three or five obvious. For example, the public teaching situation for the second four years has been eliminated, and they also said so from the opposition. There are other things we agree on. Of course, there are issues that we don't agree on. One of them is related to the concepts of the uninterrupted and uninterrupted.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0328par0383	Pepper gas compromise?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0325par0384	If you look at the text, it mentions the uninterrupted lifting of the emphasis here. In fact, there is a political repertoire that resembles the word uninterrupted. Because of that political repertoire, the scientific and pedagogic aspect of the work, the power today removes the expression uninterrupted. You have to read it in such a context. Dear friends, the language we use is really important in terms of negotiations. When I first arrived at the Assembly, there was a speaker of the CHP who spoke of Habermas. So when I heard about Habermas, under the roof of the House, I said, "I suppose these friends are aware of the communication theory, which is one of his most important contributions to communication science and negotiation, and in this framework, I'll come to a parliament where the negotiations will be passed by refined and aesthetic, but I've seen that such a refined and aesthetic language does not exist, and I wish it did.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0329par0387	That's what you always say, but your men kick us, kick us!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0325par0388	I'm going to say, for example, in the Nazi era, the Nazis had a very famous anthem, my friends. And the Nazis, you know very well...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0330par0390	Teacher, don't say anything you're ashamed of!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0329par0391	We got kicked in the commission, they kicked us!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0331par0392	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0332par0393	...a song by the name of Marleen. Lili Marlene's song is on Zagreb radio -- it's in the songs of Ahmad Kaya.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0329par0395	Hodja, you said that on the Commission, but your men kicked us, we got kicked, kick!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0332par0396	...was stolen during the war at 9:55. This song the Nazis made...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0333par0397	Come to the Commission, to the Commission!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0332par0398	...then he turned to the Allies, and the Nazis both told Lili Marleen and allies. Lili Marlene was told about a soldier going to war leaving his lover under a lamp at night in front of a police station. In the Nazi anthem...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0334par0400	What are you talking about? That's what you're telling me, and they're kicking!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0335par0401	Teacher, if you're talking about good morality, come to the Commission, to the Commission!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0334par0402	You're talking about these things, your guys are kicking, how's that gonna work?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0336par0403	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0337par0404	You'll know what I'm talking about. If I fall in the Nazi anthem...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0338par0407	Teacher, if you're talking about good morals, come to the Commission.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0339par0408	You say philosophy, they kick! What's it gonna be, Hajji?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0337par0409	Those who use the common language cross borders, just as the AK PARTY is over, this is behind 50 percent.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0340par0411	Mr. Bostanci, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0341par0412	Beating up on the commission?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0342par0413	Is the new common language of AK PARTY a threat?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0343par0414	Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0344par0416	Mr. Bostanci, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0345par0417	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0344par0418	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0346par0419	Teacher, look, he'll be smart! He called, apologized. He made a phone call, and he said, "I'm sorry. I did it wrong."
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0344par0420	Mr. Tünce, please have the MPs sit down. Sit him down, please.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0347par0421	I have something to say...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0346par0422	You kicked me!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0348par0423	You were so elegant on the Commission!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0346par0424	You kicked me, kick me!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit03spe0349par0426	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0349par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 199. The commission and the government are in place. Now, the second...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0350par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0349par0006	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0350par0007	Just now, before we take a break, I'm telling you exactly: I wish patience to the friends in the front row for the language used here because this language is immoral, ceberut, lead soldier language, that's the language of the opposition.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0351par0008	He must have talked to himself. He described himself in that reference, but he described his own group.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0349par0009	Here you go, Mr. Slim. Please, let's not make a new mess. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0352par0014	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're not going to take moral lessons from anyone, but our moral code is that we don't take the right to an orphan. Morality is not following the tender. It's not to take the purchase of computers to children when they're making a moral law outside the Public Contraction Act. Morality is forbidden, lawful knowledge. Morality is not to send immoral messages on Twitter. (CHEERING) Morality is not listening to anyone's phone. Morality is not to rot people in prisons with false evidence. By abusing the moral power of power, his opposition is not to crush all the institutions that oppose him. Morality is not simply being rich. Morality is not to covet the poor's poor's poor money. Morality is not drinking the money of the Lighthouse and the poor poor. Morality is not eating Bosnian money.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0353par0017	SMI!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0352par0018	We don't have any moral lessons from you. We don't have any moral lessons from you!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0354par0019	We don't have a lesson to teach either.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0352par0020	I think you need a good lesson. You need to learn a very good lesson. Look, he just said he's a friend of ours. Don't worry, we're not gonna leave this world to the next. You'll pay for it to God, that's different.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0355par0022	We are.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0352par0023	But you will answer to these people. From now on, my friend, who comes out of every article... why are you, why are you taking this material out of the scope of the Public Contraction Act, why? Why do you calculate 15 years? He's making billions of dollars. Why are you missing this? If that's not your intention, bring in the motion, let's include it in the Public Contraction Act. Why can't you take it? Those who don't get it teach us morality! Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0356par0027	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0357par0028	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0356par0029	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0357par0030	Mr. President, those items, the items mentioned, are the 24th and 25th article of the proposal. We'll talk there, but our friends who got out somehow...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0358par0031	There's no talking in the matter.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0357par0032	Allow me.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0358par0033	There's no talking on matter.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0357par0034	We have a motion, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0358par0035	We're going to talk at the table. You said, "No." Since it's the basic law, there's talk on the chapters.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0357par0036	Let me explain why that arrangement was suggested, Mr. President, if they want it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0359par0037	I don't understand, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0357par0038	So, Mr. President, let me explain to you why purchases regarding the FATIH Project have been converted into private purchase methods by the end of 2015 and have been removed from the scope of the tender law.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0360par0039	Not 2015, 2030.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0357par0040	They're asking for the solution, they're very curious.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0361par0041	The matter will be discussed when it comes, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0357par0042	No, I'm just saying, we'll talk about it when it comes in, but before it comes in...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0361par0043	No, Mr. Canikli, please, if you've come out because of bullying, that's another matter. Now, on behalf of the Commission on behalf of the department, Commissioner of the Commission...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0362par0045	Explain to me who you're giving the contract to.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0363par0046	Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief statement.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0361par0047	Why are you making a statement, Mr. Bostanci?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0363par0048	It's a contribution to the statement made by Mr. Tüyük earlier.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0361par0049	There's no explanation for the contribution, please, Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0364par0050	There is no such procedure, Mr. President, there is no such procedure. Is there a procedure called "Katki"?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0363par0051	A brief statement...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0361par0052	Mr. Bostanci, there are no mutual explanations. If you have a claim to taunt Mr. Tüyük, you will say so.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0363par0053	He spoke in a manner that implied that I was teaching a moral lesson. That's what I'm talking about... there's a tease here.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0365par0054	Where's the teasing?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0363par0055	I'm going to make a very brief statement in this frame.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0366par0056	We're seeing the department, Mr. Bostanci, please... Thank you. [[Continue]] On behalf of the Commission, Commissioner Fikri Yak has asked for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Light. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, I have made a commitment on behalf of the Commission on the Law Proposal of Number 199. I hereby salute the High Council. First of all, this is the rule of the law that sets the mandatory education to twelve years in Turkey, divides education into three major levels in elementary school, secondary school and upper secondary school, and emphasizes the integrity of the program at every level -- one of the most important substances in the second part -- that prevents our young from being handcuffed at any time because of their preference. See, in Turkey, February 28th, unfortunately, just to break the demand for imam-yip high schools, there are multiple-point barricades in vocational high schools, multiple-point walls, and because of that, vocational high schools are miserable, the demand for vocational high schools is bottoming out, and there are really some circles that see how expensive this cost the country on February 28th that day.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0367par0069	What did it cost? We know that they have started a project with the motto of the country and they have been wronged. Today, even the news of the removal of multiple numbers from vocational high schools really blew up the demand for vocational high schools... Where? For God's sake! We have now reached the number of professional high schoolers prior to February 28th. Mr. Haydar, your friends know about this, so learn from them. I know it, and so do I! Now, my dear friends, here, in particular and persistently, as a child of this country... I know more than you do.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0368par0077	Mr. Akar... As a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0369par0079	Open up this bidding thing, the bidding thing!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0370par0080	You force the kids to go there, the kids drop out of school. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to share with you the matter of the FATH Project, and I'd like to make a special request that such an important matter be entered into the Parliament's records. My dear friends, let alone the past, we have missed many opportunities in recent times with matters or internal political matters, and after that I wish we had been like this, if only we had not done this. We are the children of a people who have been beaten to death. Look, the end of the 1930s, the world's aircraft industry is growing rapidly, and Turkey, which is the engine of technological development -- unfortunately, has no money to buy planes from the state budget. The rich businessmen of that time... Why? You know why. Rich businessmen come, rich businessmen, state officials say, "Please buy a plane, donate it to the government." They're coming to Nuri Demirağ today, whose grandson is our MP. They say, "Why don't you buy a plane and donate it to the government?" They say, "Why don't we build a plane?" At the end of that project, Nuri Demirageg, as far as I know, makes twelve planes. Who closed those factories? MILLIUM EDUCATION, CULTOR, TEENAGE AND SPOR COMMISSION FIRING FROM Istanbul to Sivas. Who closed those factories? He flies from Istanbul to Eskişehir, and builds Turkey's first aircraft industry in Istanbul, as well as in Beşiktas. Unfortunately, unfortunately... Who closed those factories? I'll tell you what's going on. Tell me, who closed the aircraft factories in Turkey. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man You're the one who threw the party; you go over it; you get eight orders from the world; orders are cancelled around the world; orders from the Turkish Air Agency are cancelled, and Nuri Demirag is sunk. Look, my dear fellow citizens...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0371par0095	Locals? Saint citizens, it's calling to you! Today, a United States has become superpower because it has provided support for the defence industry through the state needs defense industry, and you know it very well. Later, South Korea became a technology giant with this model, which we've always sampled today, and we, that day...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0372par0098	This is so wrong, it's so incomplete! If we had left what was ordered from the world as a state...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0371par0100	My dear fellow, you're giving false information! If we had ordered some more, maybe today Turkey would have been one of the most important countries in the aircraft industry. Let's get to a little closer history.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0373par0102	Can you tell me who closed those factories? Who closed them? You all know very well, my dear friends, that at the beginning of the 1960s, we have the story of a revolutionary automobile, don't we, the revolutionary automobile? They really did work, they tried, they built the Revolution car in a very short time.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0374par0104	Come to the offer! Sir, the first demonstration forgot to put gasoline in the car, with such a nonsense as the Turkish mind can be made into an automobile... Mr. President, let him talk about the proposal. Let him come to the offer. Because we know that Cemal Gürsel went to Memorial in the second car.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0375par0108	Fikri Bey, this is not how technology is developed, it's wrong and it's incomplete. Look, do you know what happened? Why do you bother making automobiles, we give you cheap ones, why are you doing them?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0376par0110	Okay...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0375par0111	It's a shame about the public! IN THE 1960s, Turkey's mass production of cars in that world was prevented from becoming a domestic car brand. Now, what does this have to do with our FATIH Project? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, yes, it has a lot to do with that. Look, there's a digital era of the world here in the FATIH Project, especially now. There are very important technological revolutions in the digital age. If we as Turkey are going to miss the digital age as well as the plane and the automobile in the past, are we going to look at it from a distance, or are we going to be one of the masters of the digital age? That's the basic question. This is a national case. If... It's not about causing corruption, but it's a shame!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0377par0115	You can't be a master by being corrupt! I'm telling you, let me tell you... Congressmans, at least don't talk about it and listen to me, for God's sake. You don't get to be the master of the digital world by taking stuff off your own child. It's done against the world. Look, I'd like to ask the Republican People's Party to listen for three minutes, please. If you love your God, listen for three minutes. You're trying to take the product off the subbies! Look, you said, "Allah," you said, "The Prophet," you said... Now, my dear citizens, does Turkey need a tablet computer? We'll get used to it, we'll get used to it, you'll build a farm for Recep Tayyip Erdogan all over Turkey. PLEASURE PRODUCTION, CLUB, TEENAGE AND SPOR COMMISSION I do. Does Turkey need a tablet computer brand, a local tablet brand?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0378par0125	I do.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0377par0126	That's how much you respect the opposition. That's how much you respect the opposition. Is there anyone in this House who says there's no education? There are no objections. Then come, if... You'll make a farm of Recep Tayyip Erdogan. If we're going to give our babies this tablet, let's make it a native property and give it to them.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0379par0130	Why don't you do it for the local phone? Well, why are we taking it out? Why are we taking it off?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0377par0132	Come to the law, come to the law. Who are you gonna give it to? What cult? Which ally? How's your friend? Wait a minute, if you're not interested in understanding what's going on with you, you'll listen. My fellow lawmakers, if he is subject to the Public Contraction Act in a tender, the price margin between domestic and domestic production and foreign production can be 15 per cent at most. Lies... lies... When it's over 15 percent, you have to consider the outsider.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0380par0137	Mr. Fikri, they cheated on you, honestly, they cheated on you. Now my dear friends, please, for God's sake.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0381par0139	Do you have a tablet computer? Do you have a tablet computer? Mr. President, are you going to add to my time? Look, dear lawmakers, this is a national case. Please listen to this, if you love your God, hear this. You don't know! Now, look, dear friends, if today in Turkey... He doesn't know!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0382par0145	You don't know...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0383par0146	Mr. Akar... If we want to meet what we need as a state from a local company and Turkey to form a local tablet brand...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0384par0148	Doesn't he have one now? I do. We have to keep this out of the scope of the Public Relations Act. I already have one! MILITARY EDUCATION, CULTOR, TEENAGE AND SPOR COMMISSION You're going to make him a little more machete, you're going to enrich him from the resources of the government! The idea that Turkey does not want Turkey to enter this sector in the past, as it did on the plane.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0385par0154	What's that got to do with anything? Look, I'm explaining why... Where does he make it?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0386par0157	Believe it or not, it's nothing, it's nothing! Dear friends, foreign firms who don't want Turkey to enter this sector, much more than this 15 per cent advantage... I swear to God, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0387par0160	Congressmans, please... They make a much cheaper offer by going a lot further than that.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0386par0162	That's a lie! Why are you working on your tablet? They say, "We provide your tablet." And they say, "Turkey is a historical opportunity to rule the digital age, to be the master of the digital age, to be the master of the digital age."
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0388par0164	The law doesn't have the name of a single ally! And that's when our children don't remember us at all. Come, as lawmakers...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0389par0167	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0390par0168	I'm going to make a claim to quit law enforcement. Mr. President, I'd appreciate it if you'd add to my time. Come, as lawmakers, look, this is being excluded from the Public Contraction Act, but...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0391par0171	Why is he coming out? Let's go. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, However... Why not? MILK EDUCATION, CLUB, YOUNGNESS AND SPOR COMMISSION [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Isn't there a right to an orphan who hasn't run out of hair?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0392par0178	Dear Light, thank you. Mr. President, I need a minute. I don't have that kind of effort. Thank you. MIRCLE EDUCATION, CULTOR, TEENAGE AND SPOR COMMISSION Your problem, sir. They interrupted me. It's your problem. You know ten minutes, sir, and I'm not giving it to anyone, you know that. Thank you. Dear friends, the decision is so right and those who do it in our country will be applauded, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0393par0189	Go, go, go!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0394par0190	I'll bet he'll quit his job as a deputy!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0392par0191	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0393par0192	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0392par0193	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0393par0194	Sir, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a respectable institution. It is not right to address the MPs who are present at this institution in the name of the locals and direct them with false information.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0392par0195	I believe it's a slip of the tongue, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0393par0196	Put your hand on your conscience. I'm asking you, where's the local production here? If you don't bring this in, you'll get all the paperwork you're saying. Bring it on. Is there? Is there one domestic production? Is there?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0392par0197	Thank you. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0393par0199	You're lying, you're lying, you're cheating.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0392par0200	Mr. Vural, please... please, Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0393par0201	You're fooling the screens, all of them. No domestic production. Look, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0392par0202	Your words have been filed, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0393par0203	Mr. President, in the purchases of renewable energy sources, we've decided together to encourage domestic production, but it's not here, it's not here. There is education, culture, youth, and the SPOR COMMISSION, and there's the idea that there's light. Mr. Oktay, read the first sentence. He must have arranged the tender. Looks like you set up the tender.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0395par0206	I wish you could.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0396par0207	Thank you. Minister of National Education Omar Dinçer asked for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0397par0211	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, I really wanted to explain this when the relevant clause came in, but now that it's come up so early, it's been discussed. I'd like to give you a brief discussion of why we're really taking this out of the scope of the Public Contraction Act.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0396par0214	Congressmans, why are you so interested in whether or not another party group should go out? Please... please... this is the Minister, he's on his way.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0398par0215	We'll wait again. We're just saying that.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0397par0216	Guys, I'm really here to explain why we have a request to go outside the Public Contraction Act, if that's what you're wondering.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0399par0217	Put it on the item.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0397par0218	Please let me, let me explain those things to you. Very valuable friends, the FATIH Project is one of the largest and most comprehensive projects we have ever faced in our country, and because of its technological properties, this project is a project that has the potential to encourage and create an area for them. In other words, the FATIH Project actually has the ability to create an equal opportunity in our educational system, as much as it does in our country to create an IT technology, which is really important for us. It's not just for the Ministry of National Education, it's a very important project for all the areas of this country. From this point of view, the creation of the management and security software of e-investigators along with tablet computers and smart boards should not be considered and considered as a mere purchase of goods and services. We design tablet computers, smart boards, e-incomes and management and security software together as strategic elements, and I want to underline that.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0399par0220	But is there anyone who can produce the equipment? They do the software.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0397par0221	Please... I'll explain when you let me. So, is there a smart board in Turkey today, a tablet in Turkey, a computer in Turkey, a local company? Let's answer that first.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0399par0223	No.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0397par0224	There are tablets in Turkey, friends, local companies, but there are no local products, so let's separate them. So there's a local firm, and pretty much most of them, especially from China and Taiwan, are making a sale of the products they bring in from Turkey.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0399par0225	Is this domestic production?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0397par0226	So, as a local company, there are no local products, so let's see if we can determine that. Second, do you make smart boards? So far, smart boards, some of the items of the smart board that work in electricity, electronic industry in our country, such as Vestel, Arcelik, are producing certain elements of companies such as Beko, but there is no infrastructure for the production of a complete smart board, and there are preparations for the firm that can be made from 15 percent of April. But what's important to us isn't that the company is domestic, it's just that the product is domestic, because that's the most important part of creating added value and creating sectors. For the local product, we're prepared, see, friends, we're in no position to handle this alone, as the Ministry of Transport, for him, and for him, the Ministry of Transport and Turksat, TÜBITAK, the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Economics. Behind this preparation, all these ministries work together. We've devised a strategy for providing domestic products that aims to increase to at least 55 per cent locality on tablet computers by 2014, and to increase to at least 79 per cent locality on the smart board. Don't we all desire that they be produced in this country and we take them?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0400par0230	Yeah, where does it say that law? For God's sake!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0397par0231	Until now, there is an arrangement in the Public Contraction Act that encourages local companies. As far as 15 per cent of the incentives of local companies are available to provide price advantages, but foreign companies can receive the tender when they have higher price advantages than 15 per cent. In other words, if a local firm priced up to $85 for a $100 product, it could have the advantage of getting the bid, but if there's a foreign company that's willing to give a price for 84 lira, it's going to have to take it. From this point of view, we've studied the arrangements so far, I'm afraid that local companies in Turkey receive such tenders by 2%. Now, we've made a conditional preparation for manufacturing in Turkey, one of the main reasons in this respect, in a way that increases domesticity rates every year. Look, we're preparing an infrastructure that will produce products in Turkey: the battery is not produced in Turkey. Touch sensor. They call it the LCD open cell. It's a big investment. The LCM module can now produce Arcelik and Vestel in Turkey. The content of Z books, games, interactive training models and programmes, software, content distribution, network control, data flow and so on from machine to machine, and eventually networking devices, switch, router, access point products will be produced in Turkey, and a sector will be created. From this point of view, the product is not only a matter of buying goods, but also a matter of strategy.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0401par0234	Make another law, encourage it. What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0397par0235	Second: It's about Internet services, especially in all our schools, especially our children, to protect themselves from radiation, so we're going to wire internet service to our classrooms, thinking that they can use IT services within a low structure of SAR. This requires a very serious investment. We're already paying a price for almost 90 million Turkish dollars of internet service for Internet services alone, but it's a very serious resource for their infrastructure, along with the Internet services we'll receive when we start going to 42,000 schools and 503,000 classes in all Turkey. We want to transfer this resource to companies that are going to produce Internet services, and we want to buy it on the do-and-run model, so to speak, but the Internet services are current services, while the other is investment services. In Law 5018, so far, we have a chance to make a tender under normal conditions for three years. But we don't think any firm could get involved with a three-year contract if the investment got involved. Which is why we're asking for a warrant that can make a contract for up to 15 years. Again, this project includes opportunities and regulations for promoting RD services in the FATHIH Project. In this regard, the FATIH Project itself is an RD project, and in this respect, RD projects have already been implemented in Turkey's HAVELSAN, TÜBİTAK, Turksat. So the fact that this project, which is an RD project itself, is being carried out in accordance with existing Public Contraction Law processes, will have a consequence that prevents us from conducting these processes. And finally, I'd like to say that the public contract law is out of the question -- please look -- you'll see the third amendment of the Public Contraction Act, exceptions, a lot of exceptions -- that does not mean that the lawless and National Education Ministry alone will give the job to the person they want.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0402par0238	There were three exceptions, now there are 25 exceptions!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0397par0239	From this point of view, the Ministry of Transport, Public Contraction, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of National Education will co-organise the law of this, and they will be tendered under these regulations, and you will be able to follow all of this because we will put it very transparent, very clearly.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0403par0240	It's not convincing, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0397par0241	I especially ask our opposition parties to say that there is a saying in our country to look for a calf under the ox. I don't think there's any point in looking for a calf when there's not even an ox yet, fellas. Please, let's do more cold, rational analysis. If there are things in our arrangement that you will indeed warn us about, please warn us about them, but let us avoid explanations and talks that will condemn a certain institution and individuals while there is nothing to be seen. I salute you all on this occasion, but I'm making a reminder of one thing. The first sentence of this interim material begins: ▪ Increased domestic production and added value - comma -...for you to read the sequel.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0404par0245	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0405par0247	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0404par0248	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0405par0249	We have criticised the Republican People's Party Group for exclusion of property and service purchases under the FATHIH Project, which has responded to these criticisms. Of course, there are aspects of his responses that we disagree with, but he teased our group with one sentence...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0404par0250	Why did he pick on you? What did he say?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0405par0251	The opposition was taunting our group, saying that he was looking for a calf under an ox. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0404par0252	Now, he gave it as an example, and I don't consider it a taunt, but here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0405par0255	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are telling this project so beautifully that local industry will be encouraged, local addition value will increase. He tells it so beautifully that we're looking for a calf under an ox. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you, if so, why can't you say, "This is a tender for competition"? Why do you avoid saying that? The purchases of goods and services by 2030, Internet access services, will be exempted from the Public Contraction Act.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0406par0258	2015...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0405par0259	Why are you running away from competition? Put the local industry incentives here. Let's encourage the local tablet. Let's make a change in the ARGE Act. Let's give tax incentives in the ARGE Act to encourage local industry if that encouragement isn't enough. You can do something here too, but you can say to the very end that you can only do this in a competitive way without being subject to the Public Contraction Act. You avoid saying that because -- it's been done by us -- there's a $20 billion purchase. The government will make part of this purchase, make an important part of it, parents, students. There's a government that covets $20 billion. Why are you running away? Why are you creating dark spaces? If your intentions were clear, if you were sincere, if you were honest, you wouldn't hesitate to write here... in an open way. If you're not going to add an ibare to the competition, then the AKP will split the $20 billion to its own allies. That's the explanation. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0407par0263	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0408par0264	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0407par0265	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0408par0266	He was, Mr. President. He picked on me three times, Mr. President. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0407par0267	Why did he pick on you, Mr. Canicli? We don't know.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0408par0269	Mr. President, you're looking at $20 billion. What else?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0407par0270	Congressmans and Mr. Canikli, why are you angry? I have to ask under the Civil Code, I'm asking everyone.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0408par0271	Sir, you promised him not to tease him, but to tease us.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0407par0272	But a bunch of taunting vice presidents, you're being bullied, we're being pissed off. Please, I mean... What did he say and pick on you? Repeat, please.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0408par0274	You've set your sights on $20 billion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0407par0275	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0409par0277	It's not teasing, it's real.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0410par0278	It's real, it's real!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0411par0280	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, first of all, I salute you all. What happens now, with no change in the tender legislation, what happens when the tender legislation mentioned is offered openly within the framework of public tender legislation?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0410par0282	What happens?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0411par0283	I'll give you an answer.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0410par0284	He may not be able to take sides!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0411par0285	Who will receive this tender when the tender is tendered according to the current conditions, including the 15 per cent domesticity in Article 63?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0410par0286	He may not go to the side!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0411par0287	Either IPhone gets this tender or Samsung gets it. A local firm, a local firm...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0412par0288	Either you write the condition according to him!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0411par0289	Look, you can't rule the condition -- that's the problem -- on condition. There's only one sentence on the condition.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0413par0290	How many samples are there?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0411par0291	Let me... Look, you can give local companies a 15 percent advantage, that's all you can put in. Right now, Mr. Secretary just told us, no domestic production. There's no domestic production.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0414par0294	You're lying to yourself!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0411par0295	When you make a tender like this, an international foreign firm will definitely get the contract. Samsung either gets it or IPhone gets it, because there's no other firm.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0414par0296	How's he gonna get it? How are they gonna get it?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0411par0297	There are no local companies producing the product in Turkey, not domestic products, but domestic companies producing the product in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0414par0298	You've just got a member of the Commission who says the local firm is cheap. You have a member of the Commission who just said the local product is 15 percent cheaper. Then your Commissioner is lying.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0411par0299	So, given the current terms of the tender, either the foreign, the British firm, or the American company, will buy it, maybe the Israeli company will buy it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0414par0300	Deal with each other, Mr. President, it's different what you're saying.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0411par0301	Now, I'm asking you, do you represent foreign firms by defending this system, my dear friends?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0414par0303	No, I mean...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0411par0304	Why? Why? Under the current circumstances, of course, no local firm has a chance of getting it, zero, given the current conditions. Is there?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0414par0305	Well, then, Mr. Light is lying. Are you telling the truth or is he telling the truth?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0411par0306	No, Mr. Secretary is talking about the local product, not the local company.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0414par0307	Shame on you! You deny each other. Don't contradict each other.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0411par0308	So they're going to get the tender because they don't produce domestic products that were produced in Turkey that cost Turkey. So you're defending strangers, that's the difference. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0415par0311	Mr. Canicli, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0416par0312	Mr. Canikli, Cem Yilmaz made the call, says Mr. Canikli makes us laugh more than I do.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0417par0313	If you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0415par0314	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0417par0315	In his speech, Mr. Canicli, he means me, saying I'm the lawyer for foreign companies.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0415par0316	Oh, that explains it. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0418par0318	No, no, no, I didn't say that.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0415par0319	That's it, you'll explain in advance, I promise you what he said. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0419par0321	He's probably talking about me, too!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0415par0322	Before we get into any more bullying, please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0420par0324	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, Mr. Canikli, you understand exactly what I'm saying, but for some reason you didn't answer what I said, you said something else. I got this text you wrote. I say: 'You are exempting this from the Public Contraction Act.' Well, you will encourage the good industry, the local industry, the added value. It's a frame. Why can't you write this contract here?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0421par0325	He'll be under contract.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0420par0326	That's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0421par0327	He'll be under contract.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0422par0328	Set it in the law.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0420par0329	How? We're going to write this down in the direction... Why don't you write it down in the law?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0423par0330	It has to be competitive.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0424par0331	You've changed the law 17 times, 17 times!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0420par0332	I mean, why do you run away from putting the term "Koran" into the law as part of the national education curriculum when you bring the Koran and write it into the law? Look, you're running away, not running away.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0425par0333	See the last joke of the 24th article...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0420par0334	You're running away. All right, let's make a motion, open bid. Because you don't want competition. There's no answer to my question.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0426par0337	Let's make a motion, open bid.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0420par0338	I'd like to ask you, Mr. Canikli and your government represent which local capital group here? You answer that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0427par0341	Tell me, you tell me! I'm telling you very clearly...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0428par0342	In fact, who do you speak for?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0429par0343	Thank you. [[Continue]] Özcan Yeniçeri who wants to speak for himself on the episode. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0430par0352	There's teasing, there's taunting...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0429par0353	Please, Mr. Yeniçeri...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0430par0354	I'll talk to the bully 5+2.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0429par0355	No, no, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0430par0357	First, I'd like to thank the President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, now I have to say, does this government have a problem with creating domestic goods, developing domestic industry? You import the doctor, you import the teacher, you import the nurse, you import the nurse, you import the food supply for $27 billion in the first 11 months of 2011, for the local -- when we get here -- to make the technology local -- there's no defense for that. Articles 24 and 25 have nothing to do with the Education Commission, nor does it make sense to bring it to education or to put it in the education law. These two we're talking about need to be removed. No matter what you say, you can't explain it, I want to stress it specifically. Guys, everybody's talking here, nobody's listening. Let's just say, please listen carefully to what I'm saying: We'll either win together or we'll all lose separately. There's no third way.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0431par0360	This belongs to us.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0430par0361	It belongs to Özcan Yeniçeri, so don't take it. Those who fear their savings, their values, their acquish have no future. When we speak of the Qur'an -- I draw attention to everyone -- we speak of a great book. No one can put this book in there, in the regular classes, in the elective classes, we've expressed it. The Qur'an and other electives... no one makes any other sense, especially under which I draw with these thick lines... and I'd like to say a few words to my very dear friends of the Justice and Development Party. Do you realize what you were denying just now when we made a motion? What is the matter with us that you disbelieve?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0432par0363	You said five plus three in the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0430par0364	What we're saying, Your Highness, is that you listen. We say that the preferences of all students are also taught by the Qur'an and the Qur'an, the examples of the Prophet's life and the knowledge of knowledge. How do you say no?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0432par0366	Read his head, read his head.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0433par0367	Read the first sentence, read the first sentence of the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0434par0368	Why do you reject the knowledge, the knowledge?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0435par0369	I invite you to my sanity, and if there really is a truth, a truth from anywhere, then take advantage of it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0434par0370	Why are you afraid of knowledge?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0435par0371	Look, you don't have state consciousness, you don't have history, you don't have values in certain social structures.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0436par0372	You're saying there's a five plus three.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0435par0373	If anyone reminds you of that, please take advantage of them.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0437par0374	Read the whole proposal. Read all about it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0435par0375	Fear not, different thoughts and different approaches do not harm you. We all have to keep our values. When we say yes to the motions you've brought in...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0437par0376	Read the whole thing, all of it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0438par0377	Read the first sentence.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0435par0378	Yeah, well, whatever you read, it's ours. We told you on the commission, we said it for the first time, we told you. And you have made such a mistake that history will not forgive you, history! I'll tell you that. And yet, because you brought in the law that involved it, we said to him, "Yes." We said, "Yes." We said with honor. We're also celebrating your arrival, so let me underline that.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0439par0379	Thank you, you've done well.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0435par0380	Now, those who think that science is all about transference and Islam are the ones who betray both of them. There's no value to head, there's no value to fez, there's no value to head, there's no value to head, there's no value to fez.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0440par0381	He's not fez, he's a turban.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0435par0382	It's not that the head is tied one way or another, it's where the head is tied. While we were trying to tie our heads together, someone connected his head to some monopoly and some mechanisms of global power focus; look at him. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Thoughts or beliefs cannot be assessed by the marginal behavior of those who follow them. Excessive, exceptional, and radical elements represent themselves, not their values, no matter what thoughts and beliefs they have. There is a polarised structure in Turkey today: modern-traditional, upper-culture, Western-East, science-din, secular-dandar, Alevi-Sunni, Kurdish-Turkish division is deepening. There's no use being divided. If you split up, you'll lose power, you'll lose strength. Who's out of power? You always fall down yourself, whether it's mitosis or mayonnaise, you come to the same place. Today they divided the words in Turkey, today they divided history in Turkey, today they divided the identity in Turkey, today people in Turkey actually did the destruction themselves, as they call it, with their own hands. We all have to get through this together.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0441par0386	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0442par0387	Give him a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0443par0388	There was bullying, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0444par0389	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0445par0390	We don't have that kind of procedure, Mr. Yeniçeri, please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0444par0391	That's a weird way to go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0445par0392	I don't have the procedure, I have the procedure here, Mr. Janitori.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0444par0393	Did I write the Civil Code? No, you wrote it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0445par0394	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0444par0395	I'll tell you what I have to say later. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0445par0398	There's a motion on the section in accordance with Article 72 of the Civil Code, and I'm reading the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 72nd Amendment. According to the article, the 199-level Justice and Development Party's Deputy Chiefs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramaraş MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister's Minister's Minister's Office and Minister's Minister's Office of Justice and Prosecutor's Office; Minister's Minister's Office and Minister's Minister's Office for Higher Education; Minister's Minister's Office of Justice and Development; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Office of Justice and Minister's Office of Justice; Minister's Office of Justice and Development; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Office of Justice and Minister's Office of Justice and Development; Minister's Minister's Minister's Office of Justice and Minister's Office of Justice and the Council for the Council of Justice and Development; Minister's Office of Justice and the Council of the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of Ministers of Ministers; We demand and demand to continue negotiations on the section. I'm reading the reason now: The proposal has not completed the steps proposed by the Constitution and the Council of Ministers to discuss a proposal in the General Assembly. In a meeting described as "interview" by the Commission's President, the provisions in the Court have been violated. Therefore, it would be against the Constitution and the Court's provisions to bring the Commission Report to the TBMM Agenda as the Number of Ranks, which is likely to be organised by the Commission. Here's the thing. 1. Commissioner Nabi Avcı has agreed with the political ruling group to open the Commission's office at a time long before the meeting time, allowing the ruling party MPs to occupy the commissioner's hall in a way that commission work cannot be continued. 2. Bullying has been allowed to create a de facto state. This is also against Article 87 of the Constitution. The task of carrying out the legislature of the 87th Article of the Constitution for law enforcement purposes has been used in force. The Constitution was thus violated by blocking the use of the duties and powers of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. 3. Article 29 of the TBM Charter states that "Commissions are promised in order of request." Following the opening of the commission meeting, CHP commissioners, group MPs and lawmakers were handed over by Mr. Muharrem İnce to the Commission Court, but it was not processed and MPs' right of speech was violated. Not one CHP MP spoke on the commission. Article 29 does not give you the right to be given a say. This is also contrary to Article 87 of the Constitution for the following reasons. 4. In Article 42 of the TBM Charter, "Commissions organise a report on the work they decide to do." The sentence is in place. The proposal, referred to in this regard, is unresolved in the talks, since word demands and amendment proposals have not been implemented. For these reasons, it is of great importance to continue negotiations on the entire proposal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0446par0409	Mr. President, I'd like to bring you up to speed on a matter of the General Assembly's knowledge. This tablet was just stated in Law 4734 that domestic products cannot be preferred, Mr. Secretary. Look, on Tuesday, September 6, 2011, 28046: Signed: Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Prime Minister. Admissions under Public Contracting Act 4734 and purchases from the State Supplies Office are primarily the preference of products produced in Turkey. If it's preferable, we're bringing the law here today because it can't be chosen. What's the point? [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here's Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, with a generalization. Thus, this law reveals that there is a law set up for another purpose, or you would not have brought the Prime Minister's view here a will that changed Law 4734.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0447par0418	Let the Minister answer that.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0448par0419	Thank you, Mr. Vural. There will be a question-and-answer procedure on the department for 15 minutes. Mr. Tanal, Mr. Şaş, Mr. Halaçoglu, Mr. Türkoğlu, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Çınar, Mr. Öz, Mr. Totcu, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Erdemer, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Küyükoğlu, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Halaç, Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Halaman and Mr. Demirel have entered the system. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0449par0423	Thank you, Mayor. 1) Since pre-school education has been cancelled, will you pay back the funds you received from the European Union for preschool education? Since pre-school education has been proposed according to the European Union reports and this has been lifted, have you given up the European Union? 2) With uninterrupted training, has the girls' reading rate gone up or down? If it's increased, how much has it increased? 3) Has the rate of reading and writing increased in all schools, mixed schools? If it's increased, how much? 4) What is the average number of first - grade students in Turkey? 5) What is the average number of students falling to a teacher in Turkey? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0450par0430	Thank you. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0451par0432	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: what teachers will be giving electives in middle schools? How will elective lessons be determined? The second question: one of the main reasons for the failure of students in our country is the use of unsecured Internet. And that's what we're dealing with as video games. With this law, each student will receive a tablet of computers. Aren't these children in great danger who aren't trained in safe Internet use? As the Ministry of National Education, do you plan to have Turkish law enforcement games based on Turkish software? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0452par0436	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0453par0438	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how much resources have been planned for the next 18 years for tablet computers, software and other equipment that have been excluded from public tender coverage? Two: What firm is being hired by the Ministry of National Education to prepare for domestic production starting in April? Three: Is the sixteen thousand elementary schools that have been shut down due to transport training will be able to be activated after this application? Four: Why does this offer not provide a solution to the application of teachers, education schools and paid teachers? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0454par0444	Thank you. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0455par0446	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, this is the third time I've asked you, I'm afraid there's no time for your answer. Now, there are two professions that can go down to the lowest level of the population, one teachers and one imams. The transfer of imams is usually made from high school graduates. Now, we need well-trained imams for that. Do you plan to open a university for this, an imam-producing university?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0456par0449	Thank you. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0457par0451	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, it seems that the name of this law, this offer, is not,4,4,4,4, cover it up, cover it up! In this frame, a number of teachers who had not been appointed a few days ago came to visit me: Dilek, Recep, Feryal, Ayşegül, Berra, Hasan, İnan and Adil. Actually, he's got some more friends coming in, but they couldn't come because they killed themselves! They asked me to say hi to you. Tell Mr. Minister that they want to teach, that they want you to give up an equal wage lie, that the classrooms offer them a fee of 150, 200, 300 lira, that they will appoint 55,000 teachers, and then say hello to the minister who denies it -- the former Minister -- and also to the minister who claims to have given them personality -- that it is our personality, that the question belongs to him. They said, and they would rather remain honorably unemployed than the teachers who were appointed as teachers by cheating in KPS. I want your opinion on this.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0458par0455	Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0459par0456	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, eight years of mandatory non-interruption training have been decided in May 1996 at the 15th National School of Education. This date has the ruling Highway Government, and there is no sign of February 28th. In that case, will you refrain from saying that eight years of mandatory non-interruption training is February 28th, and the ball is imposed on the tank? Are you going to give the public the right information about this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0460par0459	Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0461par0460	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, have you done any work on your rotation with the executives? What has been the benefit and harm of this practice? How long has the manager retired? Are our schools able to continue with your support today? Or do our rulers seek the support of those who are around them?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0460par0462	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0462par0463	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, how many classrooms have increased in Turkey in the last ten years? What is the main reason for this increase? Didn't the inadequacy in the educational system in the ten-year period that grew so much in the classroom have been effective? Do you think you have any responsibility for the past in this context? My other question is... do you have any attempts to remove the test before the university entrance exam, as the Prime Minister promised in the polls? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0463par0467	Mr. Topcu...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0464par0468	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I didn't get any answers from the questions I asked earlier. I'd like to, like, ask you again. What will the new system bring to the budget? How do you feel about electives? How are you going to arrange electives, and how are you going to train teachers for these electives at the same time? Another one about the answer you gave the other day. You specifically chose computer lessons. In your speech earlier, you specifically spoke of smart classes, smart boards, smart technology, and you said that you made these lessons a choice because the kids came to the computer on purpose. I don't think they're a rational solution, and children come to Turkish on purpose, but there's a value that the education system has to add. You must never forget that value. How will you come up with a solution? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0465par0473	Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0466par0474	Minister, there is a saying in Anatolia: increase your persecution so that you will be destroyed quickly. This law of education is the law of increasing persecution. Imagine an educational law based on the commission where CHP MPs were beaten to death, their skeleton crashed with a stick to KESK-like teachers in Kızılay, and their roof finally cracked with gas and water that you sprayed on students in ODTÜ. In the process of implementing this law, what will be the violent methods you envision using on our children?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0465par0475	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0467par0476	Mr. President, I'd like to begin with the question of Yusuf Bey, if you'll allow me this time. He really asked me a few times, and I didn't get a chance to answer. You know, right now, we have imam-hatred schools as the imam-growing establishments. There have already been constant complaints over four years of non-religious education, but then two years of colleges have been established, and now they're studying, and they have theology schools. From this point of view, I don't know what other educational system you're thinking of, but let's take your offer. Right now, I think the existing schools will actually be enough to develop imams for this kind of education, and we don't have any preparation.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0468par0478	Four years...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0467par0479	I'd appreciate it if you'd let me know later.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0469par0480	Then don't you mean we don't need imam-gay middle schools?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0467par0481	No, I'm just saying that four years of education in imam-gay schools was inadequate, so he also needed to open secondary schools.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0469par0482	But you said: "We've taken out two. We've done enough today."
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0467par0483	No, I didn't say that.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0469par0484	Today's situation is sufficient, you said.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0467par0485	I don't know how you came to the conclusion of the removal of pre-school education, but I've never, in any way, seen a sentence saying that pre-school education had been lifted in Turkey, in any statement. So I'd like to know the reason for such a judgment, but we have to explain again on this occasion that Turkey's greatest performance of pre-school education has been shown by the AK PARTI Authority. From 2002 to this time, 11 per cent of children from pre-school, 60 to 72 months ago, we are now able to increase pre-school education to 67 per cent. Our main goal is to reach 100 percent. From this point of view, we will still make efforts to reach 100 per cent of preschool education. We also had a very serious performance on girls' schooling. In 2002, we had about 87-88 girls in school against 100 boys, while today we had 100.4 girls at primary school. I'd like to say it again on this occasion. Our number of students per class is now 30 in primary school, 31 in secondary school, 28 in general secondary school, and 35 in vocational secondary school. Our number of students per teacher is around 20 in primary school, 16 in secondary school, 16 in general and 16 in vocational education. Highly valued lawmakers are specifically asked what major teachers will attend in electives. You know, we have a field teacher app. It will be met by teachers who also take elective courses and other teachers who have the training to satisfy that lack. The terms of who will be teachers are very clear in Turkey. A question was asked, "Will the test for the teacher's appointment be lifted? " No, he won't. On the contrary, we'll start taking the field exams. I'd like to say that on this occasion. It was asked which firm received the tender on the smart board. There's been a very clear tender on the smart board. Let me put it this way: "Impulse" means buying goods and services in terms of free competition. While the law is now under way, it's about a free-fledged system of competition.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0470par0491	It's not free when you patent it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0467par0492	And from this point of view, let me make it very clear, without any difficulty, that I am here to say yes to the offer of Mr. Hamzacebi. In the last sentence there....... before.. free tenders are arranged. I'm ready to put it into words but it's a repeat expression, it's a phrase, it's an expression. I'll settle for one of those. But I have to say, in other words, it's obviously been tendered, the Ministry of Transport has made this tender, Vestel has bought it, and Vestel has this...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0470par0493	But Vestel already had a patent, no one else had a chance!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0467par0494	No, you guys are wrong about that, too.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0470par0495	File in court!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0467par0496	I've explained it, but I'll say it again: once, first of all, not only have the Department of National Education experts worked on the development of the product; I said it in the Commission, again, very clearly, we're projecting what's inside of us out in the most transparent way. Experts in the Ministry of National Education, the experts in Vestel have contributed to the development of this product, which will contribute from the private sector.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0470par0497	But isn't it unfair competition for you to work with Vestel? There's not only Vestel in this country to work, Minister.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0467par0498	When those companies applied for patents, we intervened, said the Ministry of National Education would be there, they waived, and three companies entered the tender.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0470par0499	Minister, when you work with Vestel, the competition is already broken. You work with Vestel, what chance do others have?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0467par0500	Not only did the Vestel company enter the tender, but the Vestel firm, the Arcelik company, entered into the ATMCA Electronics tender and received the lowest bidder. Therefore, it is open to all sorts of information; please look at the tender files, the terms, the companies that bid on the tender, and the prices. You will come to know that your doubts are nothing but delusions.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0470par0501	Minister, knowing something bad doesn't get us anything.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0471par0502	But it's not the right way, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0467par0503	How much has the number of classrooms increased, they say? Right now, I'd like to brief you on the number of classrooms over the years, but I must say that the number of classrooms in the last few years has actually dropped in contrast to what you know. In 2001-2002, there were 2,002 classrooms in Turkey -- please record -- and the highest -- as of now -- reached a number in 2008-2009, which is 4,260, which means that the number went up to 2. But after that, the number began to decline, with repeated measures, which are currently serving at 3,961 classrooms in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0472par0504	How many students are there, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0467par0505	And I'll tell you the number of students: we now have a total of 1,219,472 students.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0472par0506	How many students were there in 2002?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0467par0507	588,637 in 2002. On another matter: The National Education Committee in 1996 referred to the recommendation on uninterrupted education. Yeah, that's right, the idea of uninterrupted education is all there is to it. Other than that, there is no expression in any of the recommendations for extension of the training period in Turkey since 1981, that education would be uninterrupted, but by coincidence in 96, it has laid out infrastructure for the change in 97.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0473par0509	Because there's been pilot applications by then, and you know it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0474par0510	Those were for 5+3.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0467par0511	On another matter, again, the answer to Mrs. Zühal's question is the burden she will bring to the budget: I have said it many times. We need between 130,000 and 160,000 classrooms, right now, when we're up to 100 percent of education. You can calculate for about $140,000 per class at today's prices. We -- if you assume that all of these cost, total, all of these classrooms are being done -- we need a supply of about 30 billion Turkish dollars for a lecture. We've come this far from 30 students per class, but that's what we need. Because of this law, the surplus is only about 15 percent, and the others are already something we need, and Turkey will be able to use its resources for this problem by making a change of only 10 per cent, 15 per cent, in our strategic plans. And the tablet is very clear about the use of computers and smart boards, my dear Hodja, even if a student doesn't know anything about a tablet, he'll be able to use it in two hours. You've got the wrong information about computer use. We didn't choose computer lessons, we removed computer classes, instead we put in an elective class called I.T. Technologies and Design. I repeat: In Turkey, our children do not need to learn computers. Even when they learn design, they get to the point where they can use it in a few hours. From this point of view, the primary education is to use computers, not to read, not to write, but to instill the idea of what kind of entrepreneurial spirit is after computers, which only happens with design lessons, which only happens with students who are interested. From this point of view...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0475par0513	Mr. Secretary, they're learning Turkish, but you don't pick up Turkish teachers. They come to schools knowing Turkish, but...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0467par0514	If it's the same thing, I'm depending on his logic and logic of thinking, if it's the same thing.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0476par0515	It's the same in your logic!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0475par0516	Computer teaching isn't just about teaching computers! I mean, how shallow you think. That's not gonna happen. That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0467par0517	See, it's very clear that we...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0476par0518	Your logic, yours!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0467par0519	Look, dear lawmakers, let me make it clear that today, from the Ministry of National Education website, enter the program, not the computer learning, but the promise that we will teach you how to make computer programs.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0477par0520	It's not just using, it's learning computers...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0467par0521	Please enter the program "Kurcyer Net" for you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0477par0522	He's going to be a guide, he's going to tell us about the damage to the computer, the benefits. How shallow you think, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0478par0523	Mr. Secretary, please complete your statement.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0467par0524	We have a lecture for them, don't worry, we teach them there, we teach them the damage to the computer, don't worry.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0479par0525	Mr. Secretary, in media reading...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0480par0526	The media reads you, they write you!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0481par0527	Mr. Secretary, who is Tunay Alkan?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0480par0528	The media is already reading the AKP, the AKP is writing the AKP, there's no need to read it!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0482par0529	Well, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0483par0530	Look, you're doing it wrong, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0484par0531	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the talks on the second chapter are complete.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0485par0533	Tunay Alkan, who's the patenter, the general manager or the vice president of the group?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0484par0534	Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate votes after I've processed the motions on those substances, if there are any.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0486par0535	We don't have an officer like that in that unit. Don't worry, there's no such manager there.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0484par0536	There are four motions on the 14th article. I'll have the motions read according to the order of the first arrival and process according to their contradictions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of Justice and Education's Law and Rize MP Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı; Justice and Development Party MP Ahmet Aydın and Şamoramash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of the Law and Vice President of the Law on Some Laws; Vice President of the Constitution and 2 MPs on the Laws of Higher Education Agency; Minister of the Constitution and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Constitution and the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of State of State; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Constitution; Vice of State of the Constitution and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Constitution and the Constitution; Minister of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution and the State of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State shall shall shall under the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of the Council of State shall shall shall shall shall shall shall shall shall be the Council of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of the Council of the Constitution and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Constitution and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Constitution and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of the Constitution and the Council of the Constitution and the Council of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution shall shall shall shall shall be the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of the Council of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The foundation of higher education institutions is entered by a holistic evaluation system established by the Ministry of National Education and the Board of Higher Education. This system, along with the student's academic performance, is a system that calculates and evaluates all social, artistic and field competencies. Students will be able to move to university without a test, with an average score of all their qualifications. Oktay Vural Mehmet Şandir Özcan Yeniçeri Zühal Topcu Lütfu Türkkan Ahmet Duran Bulut Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework 14th article (d) be removed from the text of matter of the proposed 199 Numbered Law proposal, and that the other dams be identified accordingly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahnamaraş MP Mahir Ünal; First-level Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chairs Nurettin Canikli; Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş; İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı; Justice and Development Party Deputy Ahmet Aydın and Şeymaraş MP Ahmet Aydın; First-level Justice and Education Act; Minister of Law and Rize MP Hayati Yaşı and 2 MPs's Office; Minister of State of Justice and Development Agency; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council; Minister of Justice and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council; Ministers of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council; We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the substance text of g. We propose and propose that the 14th amendment of the 199th amendment be removed from the text of matter.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0487par0553	Mr. President, it's reading too fast, we don't understand. If I don't understand, how am I supposed to decide for my people?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0484par0554	Does the Commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0488par0557	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0484par0558	Sırrı Sakık, Müsh MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0489par0559	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Yes, a few hours ago, the 9th amendment of Law Proposal 199 was not the problem here. Look, we voted well there, too, but there was a rant fight here, and how much we try to send a message about it! We all need to get rid of it. So we have to ask for eternal freedom, but unfortunately, you're not very democratic about it, but we've seen a fight between two parties, just like political ranta pickings. However, as much freedom for our beliefs as we want freedom for our language and our culture, our identity, we must ask for as much freedom for our faith as we do for ours, but there is no life for any other faith other than yours. Unfortunately, for many years in Turkey, some of the political community has not left the mosque courtyard, but the people have made a point of what happened at the barracks, and I assure you that the people will bring the politicians to a place in the mosque courtyard. No one should attempt to collect a political rant on faith. If your heart is strong enough -- which you speak of as a common country -- do you not have a duty to free your language, your culture, the language of the people you ignore? There is, but you don't do it, you don't have the heart to do it. One opposition party says: "Let them speak their language in the corner. " What if there is a language spoken in the corner? I mean, how can you be so unfair to a language? This isn't a language corner language. For example, let's take it backwards. If the Republic of Turkey had become a Kurdish republic at the time of the formation of the Republic and the republic had formed the culture of Kurds on its identity and had wronged the Turkish identity, and if we had made a legal arrangement here today regarding Kurdish identity, Kurdish identity, if a Kurdish minister had come back here and told us that: let the Turkish language express itself in the corner. The more rights there are in the Kurds, the more unfair it is to assert it in the demand of the Kurds. So we can't really say that you, in this country, have respect for a free education system, a language in which everyone will be present, a identity. Here we are, in the middle. Look, for a long time, there's been a racist oath in this country. Every morning, we pass false information on to our children. We have a Minister of National Education, who's already left, so let's put this away. That's racist. He said. The apocalypse broke, you took a step back because you're being fed up with the racist, nationalist waves in Turkey. Can you get a vote from those waves? You're back, you've even taken a step back from this, and our children who go to school every morning with false information, we're Turkish, we're right, we're hardworking... I mean, there are different peoples in this geography, so why don't you respect those people? Why have you been talking about the language of those people, the identity of those people for 90 years, the rule of no action, and the democratization and freedoms? By God, neither do our people believe in you, nor do your conscience, but when you put your head on the pillow at night, I'm sure you don't believe that you're doing the right thing because you're a monotheist, a racist, an assimilationist, a tyrant to other peoples, a tyrant to other beliefs. You will respect the beliefs without such persecution as ours, and I say in the language of the people, that the Qur'an had just come about the Lord of the Prophet. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...a law passed. Whoever is politically unfaithful to that Koran, let that Koran - this Anatolian - take care of them. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0490par0567	Thank you, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0491par0570	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0490par0571	I'll call. I submit the motion to your votes... He's got a roll call, and I'm gonna do it. Mr. İnce, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Kesımoğlu, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Kulkuloğlu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Ediboğlu, Mr. Yüceer, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Kuğoğlu, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Soydan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] On the 14th article, I submit to your votes the motion of Mush MP Sýz Sakık and his friends: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Meeting 199 Rows of Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Directors...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0492par0587	Mr. President, it's reading too fast. Really, I beg you, how am I supposed to decide on behalf of my constituents, these motions that I don't understand? Güresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı... Mr. President, I beg you, please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0493par0590	Congressmans, your group's motion is slow reading. I mean your group's motion, you know the motion, so you understand.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0494par0591	If we know, then don't read it at all, Mr. President. .Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahrammarash MP Mahir Ünal; First and Education Act and 5 MPs and Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MP's proposal to make changes in the Law; Justice and Development Party Group Deputy President Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş and Turkish Parliament MP Kayserli Kayseri MP Sadık Yakut and 5 MPs to make changes in some Laws; Law on the Law of Higher Education Institutions; Law on Justice and Development Party Chairs of Justice and Development Party; Mustafa Elışastash and Turkish Parliament Deputy President Kaysı MP İnant Yakut and 5 MPs; Minister of Higher Education Institutions's Law on the Law; Law on Peace of Higher Education; Law on the Law on Peace and Laws of Justice and Law on Peace and Development; Ministerships of Justice and Chairs of Justice and Chairs of Justice and Development; Mustafa Al-Bişast (Adıment) and Security Council of Turkish Parliament (Es). We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the substance text of g. Muharrem İnce (Yalova) and his friends
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0495par0594	Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0496par0597	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0495par0598	Osman Faruk Logogoğlu, Adana MP who has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Logoglu.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0497par0601	Mr. President, valued lawmakers are being tried to condemn Turkey's future to darkness with a proposal of law on our agenda. It must be known that the Republican People's Party will not allow it. The Republican People's Party will also not allow Turkey to become a country seeking its future in the past. But I want to talk about the lack of education in another field. I want to talk about the lack of foreign policy, diplomacy education. And the last example of that, we lived on the occasion of Mr. Prime Minister's visit to Iran, and I'd like to make it brief: The Prime Minister's visit to Iran is a complete failure. Even a joint statement could not be published after this visit. Moreover, during this visit, Turkey was tried to be humiliated, and Iran treated Turkey as a state of emergency. You may have followed, Ahmadinejad postponed his meeting with the Prime Minister yesterday on health grounds. That is why the Prime Minister had to stay in Iran for one more day. However, the same Ahmadinejad accepted a delegation from Turkmenistan on the same day that he declared himself ill and posted pictures of it all over the Internet. However, it was not enough that the religious leader Hamaney invited the Prime Minister to come to Meşet. A secular state, at least according to our Constitution, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, who is still a secular state, stood up and went to the foot of a religious leader of a country from Tehran. How do you explain this as the behaviour of a Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey? I'll leave that to your appreciation. Of course, this behavior is not surprising because the Foreign Minister of the same country is the Minister of a country in South Korea, where the president of the United States is summoned by the fingermark of the President of the United States. So both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister are used to these behaviors. Now, let us know that none of these acts of Iran are random. Iran is implementing a remarkable fine diplomacy and first delays the Turkish Prime Minister, then parades him around Iran, then announces to the world that the visit has failed without any explanation. There's no word here from the Prime Minister who knows how to raise his voice very well. Mr. Prime Minister, who roared all over the place, kept quiet about it. However, what the Prime Minister had to do was return to Turkey, but he didn't do it, and he didn't dare. Iran says you're wrong about Syria. While the Kofi Annan Plan for Syria is being supported by the entire international community, you're trying to evacuate this initiative. It also says that with the radar station in Iran, you're endangering my security, you're cooperating with Israel. We don't accept it. The messages are from Iran. As a result, Prime Minister Erdogan returns from Iran empty-handed and returns without any reaction. What does this have to do with education? I'm gonna reconnect this to education. The AKP's foreign policy failed again on the basis of this visit to Iran, as has happened in all cases before. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0498par0610	Thank you, Mr. Logoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework 14th article (d) be removed from the text of matter of the proposed 199 Numbered Law proposal, and that the other dams be identified accordingly. Ahmet Aydın (Adıyaman) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We have the right opinion, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0499par0619	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0498par0620	Ahmet Aydın, Adıyaman MP.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0500par0622	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear President, my dear fellow lawmakers, of course, we are doing much better, much better things at this time of night. And this is a proposal that will bring in some really good, extremely good work. With this motion, we're trying to ensure the equality of opportunity in education. Dear friends, as you know, there is a (d) of the 45th article of the Higher Education Law, which is currently available, and according to this (d), there is an arrangement that gives graduates of the secondary education institutions, if they choose their area of the other departments, as opposed to other high schools' graduates' graduates, to give them additional points of up to 4 percent -- an additional 4 per cent of the higher education law. Now, of course, especially when we look at other dams, (e) in front of you, those who have already graduated from this school have the right to sign up for pre-license programmes without a test. Likewise, we provide the requirement for registering undergraduate programmes so as not to exceed the 10 per cent threshold for the next (f) period or for the first degree graduates. Of course, there are many schools of employment, health schools, multi-program high schools, industrial vocational high schools, from meteorology high schools to tourist hotel high schools, to imam-gay upper secondary schools, and those who graduate from these vocational schools are also assigned an additional rating. We say that in all these schools -- high schools, colleges, graduates of all these schools -- they already have basic education, they already have basic courses, they may already have additional vocational studies, and when they graduate, they are all subject to the same test. And since they've been subjected to the same test, we're saying that there's an equal opportunity in education so that we don't get the benefit of any of them, or give the opportunity, or give the opportunity to take the other one, and that when all these graduates take the test, it's equal, fair and square, that they can enter the areas they deserve according to the scores they get. So we can get access to different areas, so that we can get into not only in their fields, but in other areas, but also in other areas, so that they can get in without losing a point, but in all vocational high schools, not just between vocational high schools, but we're getting a serious equality between all high schools, and in that sense, we're getting a very good, very good job. Again, in the same way, dear friends, there were some words about foreign policy on this stand. Dear friends, Turkey has become the address of stability inside, reputation, and extreme rise in foreign policy outside. Look, dear friends, Turkey became a temporary member of the United Nations Security Council by the vote of 151 countries during the EC PARTY ruling period. Turkey, again, became the Secretary General of the Islamic Conference for the first time during the EC PARTI ruling period in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0501par0627	What happened?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0500par0628	For the first time, again, during the EC PARTY, the chairman of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly became a Turk and a member of parliament. Shouldn't we all be proud of that? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Turkey's point of view in foreign policy is clear. Today, there was a country in Turkey, not a country on the agenda of foreign policy, but a country that used to not set its own agenda.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0502par0631	BOP Co-Chair, tell me that.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0500par0632	But, now, there's a Turkey that sets the agenda of the world. [[Applause from the AK PARTY lines, noise from CHP and MHP rows]] Dear friends, Turkey is now looking between the two lips of the world's leader. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey is curious about this, and what does he think about it? And now everyone has to make friends with Turkey.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0503par0635	Call Ahmadinejad!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0500par0636	With this foreign policy, Turkey will come to areas you can't imagine.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0503par0637	Have you heard of Ahmadinejad?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0500par0638	You can't think about that, dear friends. We knew Turkey's reputation ten years ago. What international competition was Turkey in? (CHP rows of noise) In what international arena could Turkey display a presence? What international agenda could Turkey express an opinion? Now that Turkey is a strong Turkey, because it is a strong leader and has the support of its nation, I say it will continue at a much better point, even further, with the support of this people. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0504par0641	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0505par0643	About this motion, I actually just want to know technically, are they doing it because it's unfair? It was in the offer, wasn't it? Yeah. Sir, of course Mr. Aydın really said something about foreign policy, but I really wish Mr. Prime Minister would have had the honor of saying so here.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0504par0645	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0506par0646	Mr. Prime Minister is co-Chair of the Alliance of Civilities.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0504par0647	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of Justice and Education's Law and Rize MP Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı; Justice and Development Party MP Ahmet Aydın and Şamoramash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of the Law and Vice President of the Law on Some Laws; Vice President of the Constitution and 2 MPs on the Laws of Higher Education Agency; Minister of the Constitution and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Constitution and the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of State of State; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Constitution; Vice of State of the Constitution and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Constitution and the Constitution; Minister of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution and the State of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State shall shall shall under the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of the Council of State shall shall shall shall shall shall shall shall shall be the Council of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of the Council of the Constitution and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Constitution and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Constitution and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of the Constitution and the Council of the Constitution and the Council of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution shall shall shall shall shall be the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of the Council of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The foundation of higher education institutions is entered by a holistic evaluation system established by the Ministry of National Education and the Board of Higher Education. This system, along with the student's academic performance, is a system that calculates and evaluates all social, artistic and field competencies. Students will be able to move to university without a test, with an average score of all their qualifications. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0507par0656	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0504par0657	Alim Ikım, Kütahya MP, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0508par0659	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made in Article 14 of the Law Proposal 199 that is being discussed. I salute you all. First of all, with this bill, I'd like to address two positive issues. One is that eight years of uninterrupted education -- the period of eight years of uninterrupted education -- although it may not be what we say it is -- is due to the fact that the seven-year-olds who split into the first grade and went to the eighth grade and the two-year-olds who went to the eighth grade are leaving the same environment -- but unfortunately, we couldn't make the arrangement to eliminate it; the elementary school and middle school can be together, or the middle school can be together again, depending on the needs. Therefore, this positive thought will not, unfortunately, occur in practice. Second, eight years of forced education for twelve years. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm sincerely telling you something right now. On our way to South Korea, the Prime Minister said, "We are considering a transition system to a university without a test." Here's your chance, come, support this motion. After the Prime Minister's statement, which did not occur to him as he prepared the proposal of the law, but later, because he believed it could happen, say yes to it. Otherwise, today both students and families, focused on the exam system, will continue to suffer no matter what you change. Dear lawmakers, with the AKP administration period, the OSCE has been contaminated. The university entrance exams have been robbed, the questions stolen; the KPSS exams have been stolen, the questions stolen; the teachers' appointments have been stolen, the questions stolen, but the people responsible have not been found. After tomorrow, on April 1st, millions of students will take the same test with the same concern during the entrance exam for the YGS. Therefore, they prepare for this test, anxious to see which thief steals my rights, which party steals it, and the government leaves it untraceable. Therefore, this must be resolved. Mr. Secretary isn't here, I just asked. Dear lawmakers, during the Minister's period and during your previous national education ministers, 16,000 schools in this country have been shut down, 160,000 classes empty, left to rot. Now that I've asked, what's going to happen in this system? There's no answer. How many billion-dollar grants do you have to set aside? For 18 years, you've brought in a substance for tablet computers and hardware. How much money will be transferred from here to the system? He's been missed. Now, we have a proposal based on a comprehensive evaluation system based on secondary school achievement points and that allows students to enter university without a direct test, and you need to call it a yes. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group has just mentioned the first ones. He shouldn't be unfair to the Prime Minister, he's going to announce his BOP co-chair. What rights do you get with this offer? Currently, in vocational education, the 45th article of Law 2547 provides a vertical transition quota, with no less than 10 per cent of its existing Article, and you limit it to 10 per cent. Again, you are disposing of the right to place students in the university without a test by the 45th article, highly skilled, successful in art and sports, who have participated in the Olympics by TÜBITAK. Say those things. If you don't say it, you'll be unfair, you'll be unjust to your own children and the precious minds of our country. With this offer, you can't remove these flaws. Look, the issues I just mentioned are very important. Come on, let's take all of this away, and let's do a test-free transition based on middle school achievement points, as required by the educational system that all of our students have been forced to take for 12 years. Since the 2007, 2011 and 1999 elections, the National Movement Party has defended this system and has made all kinds of preparations, and according to this, it is the party that provides an alternative to our nation. I look forward to your support of our motion, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0509par0674	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0510par0676	College without exams... Mr. Canikli, the Prime Minister told me.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0509par0678	The commission has a demand for correction, I promise. Mr. President, in Article 14 of the proposal...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0510par0680	Mr. Prime Minister said unsubstantiated university, we bring them in, they refuse, Mr. President. How's that?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0509par0681	Admiring the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0510par0682	Doesn't the Prime Minister manage Turkey? There are secret forces? God, God... the other partners of the coalition say no? The name of Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency is written as. It'll be appropriate to fix it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit04spe0509par0684	Thank you. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0509par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 199. The commission and the government are in place. There are two motions on the 15th article: I will have it read and processed according to the order of arrival: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current Justice and Development Party Deputy Chiefs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Heromarash MP Mahir Ünal; Basic Education Act and Some Legal Proposals for Amendments, Rize MP Editor and 2 MP's proposal for amendments in the Act of Higher Education Institutions; Justice and Development Party Vice President Mustafa Eliseraş; Vice President of Turkey's Assembly and Vice President's Council of Ministers; Vice Minister's Council of Ministers of Ministers and Vice of State of Justice and Ministerships of State of Justice and Development; Vice Minister of State of Justice and Development; Vice of the Council of State of State of Justice and Development; Vice Ministership of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and Development; Vice Ministers of the Constitution and the Commission of the Constitution and the Council of the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Agreement of the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; The Constitution and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution; of State of State of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 199-Selected Justice and Development Party Group Chairs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe "Nur Bahçkaplı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramaraş MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of Justice and Education Act and Rize MP Caniki Yaşımı, 2 MPs's Minister of Parliament; Minister of Justice and Development's Office of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Constitution of the Constitution and the Council of the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers of the Council; Minister of Justice and the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of the Council of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council; We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. The second paragraph (b) of Article 56 of Article 15-2547 of the Law has been changed as follows. It can be deducted from universities by the taxpayers of income or institutional tax, from incomes and institutional gains, which will be reported yearly, according to the provisions of the Laws of Finances and Institutions and Tax exemptions, from the foundations established to continue and support the activities of state universities. The Council of Ministers is authorized to determine the procedures and foundations for the implementation of this provision." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0511par0014	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0509par0015	It's the Flood Köse, Corrum MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0512par0018	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. We have not been allowed to speak to the face of Commissioner Nabi Avcı, nor to speak to the Minister's face in these Commission meetings; we have followed the Commission meetings for five days and six days. Dear friends, I salute our Minister friend here, but we don't believe in the Minister. For one thing, technology is not something that can be produced for a day. I'm going to produce a technology that's been built with the savings of years, a technology that's been built with decades of savings, and I'm going to make a local production. There's no such thing. I'd probably ask if it was him. What firm did you agree with? I was going to ask him. Look, three years ago, four years ago, were there any of the phones we used today? I mean, there was Ericsson, there was Nokia, but the phones we use today are very different. In that sense, we will make domestic production. Let them not deceive anyone. Besides, what's our biggest problem today? Cari's open. Cari, what's the catch? Import. So when we import the seed of wheat, how do we produce the tablet computer or its counterparts, we don't believe it, we don't understand it. Now, they have led Mr. Nabi astray, under the law of this slum, whatever power there is. He's 60 years old, 40 years old, he's got an intellectual personality; he's got his intellectual personality at his feet. I swear to God, I feel sorry for him, he's probably five or ten years old, and he's gonna be in a lot of trouble. My dear friends, you just removed multiple numbers with a motion. Well, don't you think you've lifted the right to go to colleges on your own majors as a result of the success of these upper secondary schools? What kind of injustice is that, and how is that fair? Now I'm gonna come to the thing, you didn't let us talk on the commissions. This bill didn't come as a bill, it came as an offer. It's unclear who's behind it, and who's behind it. You did all this to us, but yesterday, the first hand-in-hand of this matter, why didn't you let the teachers from Public Labor Unions talk, what was it? There was a distance of 100 meters. We're going to make an announcement to get to where they call it. Why did you hand them out with batons, pressure water, drugs today? Is that your idea of advanced democracy, that respect for minorities' rights, that respect for minority views? There's no way to understand any of this. Now, most of the Justice and Development Party MPs probably don't know where we're going or where you're going. I'd like to share with you a recent incident that we experienced in Çorum in order to be a stimulant. Look, on March 26, 2012, Governorial approval number 06,325, with this approval, the Corum County National Education Directorate is holding a meeting, and in exchange for the signing of this meeting, calls all the principals of the school, the district national education directors, and here is a Hoxha from Hitit University, and I'll give his name to the professor, Dr. Hasan Yücel Başdemir, who is giving a seminar to the principals. What did our professor of science -- the name of our seminar -- change in education is inevitable -- at a seminar called Change in Education is inevitable? We have a problem with nation government understanding, where does this problem come from? ▪Cemaat organisations are competent institutions to take the burden of the state's education. • They are now in line with the Prime Minister's statements. For a change in education, public schools should be privatised and these schools should be governed by NGOs because public schools are the biggest obstacle to education with its current structure. My dear friends, you may share these views, but I want to tell you one truth, unlike any of my other friends. From time to time, it is said that this squatter's bill was made in order to settle the score with February 28th. But that's wrong, it has nothing to do with February 28th. Look, in our country, elementary school has been five years since the Republic was founded in 1923. In the last year of these five years, I wonder how it bothered some people, and we're back to 4+4+4, so if there's a reckoning here, there's a parenthestic period in which Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has opened in the history of thousands of years of Turkish history, and he's being dealt with. I want to warn all of you, especially members of the Justice and Development Party, in that sense. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0513par0031	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current Justice and Development Party Deputy Chiefs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Heromarash MP Mahir Ünal; Basic Education Act and Some Legal Proposals for Amendments, Rize MP Editor and 2 MP's proposal for amendments in the Act of Higher Education Institutions; Justice and Development Party Vice President Mustafa Eliseraş; Vice President of Turkey's Assembly and Vice President's Council of Ministers; Vice Minister's Council of Ministers of Ministers and Vice of State of Justice and Ministerships of State of Justice and Development; Vice Minister of State of Justice and Development; Vice of the Council of State of State of Justice and Development; Vice Ministership of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and Development; Vice Ministers of the Constitution and the Commission of the Constitution and the Council of the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Agreement of the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; The Constitution and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution; of State of State of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0514par0040	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0513par0041	Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP, asking for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0515par0043	Dear President, I have made a pledge on the second paragraph of Article 56 of Law 2547 (b). Before that, I'd like to say that it's important that the most elite universities in the country choose their own rectors first. So if you think that a university can't choose its own chancellor, and you pick six people, and you pick one, then you have to do it in a similar way in the Turkish National Assembly. Therefore, the ECHR Law must be changed, too. Dear lawmakers, we have a very serious bill on education. A total of 110,000 classes in secondary school in the 2010-2011 school year are presented by Mr. Minister Dinçer, and the number will be up to 160,000 if secondary school is mandatory. That's why we need about 50,000 classes. Even today, even in Inner Anatolia, in Kayseri, in Niğde, in our other provinces, even in eight years of learning, we have students who are studying in two combined classes, and teachers are lacking. If you think that way now, you need 15 billion euros for the 50,000 classes needed. Again, 65,000 classes are said to be needed for primary school. For that, you need $20 billion. With the best approach by TOKI, if you start a 32-room elementary school, it can only be built for 3 million TL. Therefore, primary education requires $20 billion. You need a total of 35 billion. Let's say you find this, in six, seven months, you have no way of building it in eight months. As a matter of fact, both the Minister and the Prime Minister talk about the establishment of private schools in the form of service, and the conversion of classrooms into upper secondary schools or educational institutions. Dear lawmakers, look, if we include the 126,000 teachers that are needed now, there will certainly be a great deal of trouble during the training period next year. On the other hand, if you don't set the standard in private schools, there will be a number of private schools established in the Ottoman Empire in the same way. Most of these were missionary schools. In 1914 the number of schools established in the Ottoman lands of Britain, France, Germany and the United States was 1,244. What's the number of students? Eighty-five thousand. There were two official schools opened by the Ottoman state: administration and promotions. How many students were they? Thirty-five thousand. I mean, look, the number of students in the missionary school is 85,000, the number of students in the state-run school is 35,000. The Ottoman state, you know, was destroyed, but the most painful one here was Robert College, a missionary school. It was founded in 1863, in 68, he gave his first graduates, and his first graduates were the leaders of the Bulgarian rebellion. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's realize what we're doing. Now, let alone the rest of you, here, you're going to teach your children, you're going to teach your grandchildren, think about it. Next year you'll face them, you'll face them. Think about what you will do, and think about what you will become. You're making a very important decision here. You are deciding the future of Turkey. You know what it was like? The United States sent 37 missionaries in 1845 to the Ottoman state, 37 missionaries. Then there were 17 people who helped them, and at the end of the century the number of missionaries increased to 170, but their local collaborators increased to 1,075. The number of students is 73 thousand, only the schools founded by America. I'd like you to think this through. You have to think about where you're going, and you have to decide. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0516par0053	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. As they know, the proposed bill and proposal will be discussed as a new clause on the proposals which are not included in the commission text of the law, but are very closely related to the bill or proposal, and will be held as part of the article 87 of the Civil Code. According to Article 91, the meeting of the Civil Code as a new clause will be discussed on the motions the commission has already attended, and the number of motions laid out in this article may be submitted. So I'll have the motion read and ask the commission. If the commission joins in the motion, mostly with 14 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0517par0060	But the commissioner should call the members.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0518par0061	Mr. President, please allow our commissioners to sit on the bench.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0516par0062	I'd like to ask the bureaucrats... If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Now, I'm having the motion read...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0519par0065	Sir, just a minute. As soon as our commissioners take their place...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0520par0066	Mr. President, before you read the motion... there's no way to process such a motion, Mr. President. According to Articles 87 and 91 of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0519par0067	It's in accordance with the Civil Code, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0520par0068	...which is a motion to be considered under the general rules. In other words...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0519par0069	I'd like to express my dissension that the AKP Deputy Director of the Group object during a proposal specifically on the head cover.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0520par0070	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0521par0071	Mr. Vural, one moment...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0520par0072	There's a law that we're currently negotiating as the basic law. Here we have the number of motions to make. Each group can make a maximum motion for any substance. Therefore, that includes additional matter violations, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0522par0073	No, sir, that's not true.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0520par0074	Temporal matter is included. So this procedure, this practice...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0523par0075	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0522par0076	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0524par0077	Mr. Vural, one second, let Mr. Canikli's words be made into the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0525par0078	...is clearly in violation of the 87th and 91st Articles and practices of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0524par0079	Thank you, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0526par0080	No, sir. Mr. President, it's not against us, because according to the Civil Code, we have the right to give additional items. It's not possible for anyone to gain that right by the majority of their will.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0525par0081	What doesn't happen doesn't happen, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0526par0082	I would also like to express in particular that I find it wrong for the AKP Deputy Leader of the Group to make this objection during an additional clause motion to clear the way for people who can't get an education due to the head cover of their higher education.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0525par0083	Mr. President, there's no problem with the veil in Turkey at the universities.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0527par0084	There was no ban on the headgear, there was a de facto situation, it was removed.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0528par0085	Thank you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added after the 15th article of the current 199 Ordered Law Proposal and that other substances be identified accordingly. "The following joke is added to Article 17 of Law 16-2547. "No one can be deprived of the right to higher education because his head is veiled and cannot be executed and edited in this direction."
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0529par0091	Mr. President, we've already submitted this motion to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with the signatures of AKP chiefs. Bekir Bozdağ with wet signatures here, Mr. Cemil Cicek...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0528par0092	Mr. Vural, I've read the motion, I'll ask the Commission.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0529par0093	Mr. Sadullah Ergin, Burhan Lamb is also signed.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0530par0094	Mr. President, right now there are no headscarf bans on universities in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0528par0095	But one of you talk first. Please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0529par0096	Therefore, I request that the members of the AKP Group be present with the honour of signing the Commission. Here you go. If you have the honor of signing, this will be shown here.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0530par0097	In the Constitution, education and education are guaranteed, and there is no problem.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0528par0098	Thank you. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general? We can't participate because we don't have a majority, Mr. President. [Applause from MHP rows!]
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0531par0101	Where are the AKP members? Where?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0528par0102	Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. [Applause from MHP rows!]
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0531par0103	Bravo! Bravo! Let's play.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0528par0104	There are three motions on Article 16...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0531par0105	Where's the honor of your signature! Didn't we make a suggestion about the veil there? You've got heart, you've got heart!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0528par0106	I'll have them read it in order of progress and process it according to their inconsistencies. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Interim Article 61, which is added to Law 2547 with Article 16 of the current 199 Order Numbered Law Proposal. Article 61: In terms of students who are studying at secondary education institutions applying a program for a profession as of the date this clause is in effect, the provisions of the legislation before the date of this clause are implemented in which the graduates of these institutions are assigned to the same vocational institute of higher education and higher education programmes, which will be added to the scores they received from central exams." Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same. I'll have these motions read and processed together. I'm going to make a separate promise to them at the request of those who have the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahnamaraş MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister's Law and Development Party's Deputy Chairs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nurçkaplı; Justice and Development Party Chair Ahmet Aydın and Şeymaraş MP Ahmet Aydın and Şemir İnal; Minister's Party for First School and Education; Minister of Law and Rize MP Hayati Yaza MP İsakı and 2 MPs's Office on the Law; Minister's Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers for Higher Education; Ministership of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Ministership of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Ministership of the Constitution and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers; Ministers of Justice and the Council of the Council of State of Justice and the Council; Minister of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Ministers; We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0532par0117	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0528par0118	Idris Baluken, Bingol MP, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0533par0121	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, here we are, in fact, discussing a very important issue that concerns the future of the country, the problem of education. The heart would have wanted to discuss the problems of education, the current congestions here today, to plan the future accordingly, and to put the future in a common discussion with other parts of society, all of them, but we see that today we have discussed the situation of the educational workers that we've taken into the jurisdiction and police clamps during the day. I would like to point out that fundamental approaches to the education system have been dealt with far too far from solving the problems we're talking about, and that there is no concern for all the public, the entire community, from Edirne to Ardahan. Look, I'll give you a few examples of the current problems: students who are studying in Diyarbakır, who are seeking their right to education in the native language, and who are seeking their right to exist, are called "Hasan Basri Boztemir" and "Yasemin Azer. " They were sentenced to 21 years and 2 months in prison with the answer of the High Criminal Court. Now, if we ask each and every one of you as individuals, we're confident that you'll all have a conscience about the condition of the students who were sentenced to 21 years in prison just because they wanted to study the native language. But instead of bringing this account of conscience to solve the problems of those who are expected of us here, somehow, ignoring existing problems and locking them into a number of arguments that do not fully reflect the current problems, there really shouldn't be a bar that meets the expectations of this Assembly, at least the public. Look, I'd like to give you an example again of students still being held in Sincan Prison when they use the word "friend" in Turkish when speaking on the phone in Kurdish. We recently saw the example of a college student being wronged in prison for twenty-five months just because he was wearing the ball. Look, if we're not here for 25 months unfairly discussing the mentality of sending a student to prison just because he's wearing the bag, I'm going to leave you to appreciate how healthy our plans for the future are. The drama of the four-year-old students who were immediately found and punished for throwing eggs at the minister was also expressed on this stage. However, we also face a problem, as there are still no perpetrators of the dismembered bodies of the poor Kurdish peasant students who went across the border to buy illegal diesel for school allowance. (x) A non-English word was expressed by the Hajip in this chapter. Dear MPs, there was a very important study at the cinema, and there was a film called Two Languages One Suitcase, and if you haven't seen it, I suggest you all watch it. The suffering of a teacher who does not speak Kurdish and students who don't speak Turkish, his persecution, that is, today, in Congress, unfortunately, is the argument we've been having. The drama of a Kurdish student who can't understand his name in the phonetic tone or in the accent of that speech, even when the name is addressed, I want you all to sort of evaluate it with a kind of conscientious accounting, watching that film. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, there are a lot of points to be stated here -- generally -- about the education system that's being discussed. However, we expect you to consider the problems of the 75 million people living in this country from Edirne to Ardahan, if we are to address the problems of education here, these words, these struggles, in some way. I, on this occasion, would like to rephrase that this discussion of the educational system is very shallow and does not meet the public's expectations. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0534par0131	Thank you. The other speaker is Emre Bridgelu, Tekirdağ MP. Here you go, Mr. Bridge.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0535par0135	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, education systems in no country in the world are not made or replaced as they are smuggling goods from the fire, as they are in the AKP Powers. The measure of success in systems is to always plan correctly and to keep the preparation as long as possible. Congressmans, let's leave this bill to the preparation process, even the way this proposal came to the General Assembly is wrong in every way. The education systems have not been altered by bullying, occupying commissions like that, by kicking MPs, or by introducing unrealistic commission reports. In this regard, the AKP and AKP ruling is, unfortunately, history. In these talks, lawless is law and unlawful is law. I'm ashamed to say, but there's been all sorts of unlawfulness, all kinds of illegality, until it came to this, in the Parliament, which should be the center of the state of law. In this regard, the members of the AKP's commission and Mr. Commissioner of the AKP have also become historically lawless and illegal. Now the proposal has come to the General Assembly. I'd like to address the AKP MPs: How? As lawmakers who call this lawlessness, this illegality, and vote against it, you go back in history. Let all of Turkey applaud you, and we'll give you a round of applause. Look, you guys might want to break this law. Of course, we believe it's wrong, and we believe that this law serves Ranta, not the people. But I have respect for the congressman who got elected. Come do it from the beginning, bring it to the commission from the beginning, and wipe out this vigilantey, illegality all together. Otherwise, you should know very well that in the history of Turkish democracy, this event will always be remembered as a black mark, and you will always be condemned to the conscience of the people, the nation and our children as heroes of this event. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, one of the top clients of 4+4+4, of course, are our teachers. In the end, the law of education is changing, but the teachers and educators are not, unfortunately, taken into account. The teachers are not even allowed to come to Ankara, the buses carrying the teachers are stopped, the people who want to talk, the people who want to speak are greeted with batons, pepper gas, pressure water. Just as lawmakers are not allowed in the Commission, neither are the educators or teachers allowed in Ankara. Just as lawmakers are exposed to violence in the Commission, so are teachers who deal with it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, the issues of a country's future are not done by a finger account, but by scientific data. The laws within this scope are based on the majority of votes. I did it, I did it. With understanding, we spend it in two days. Our children can't be used as instruments to satisfy our personal grudges, ambitions, ambitions. We are being avenged. Small bodies cannot be used for this. The future of our children cannot be blackened by an entire nation, the future of an entire nation, or by the FATIH Project, by saying that we will make someone rich. Mr. President, good lawmakers, there's no question about the contribution of eight years of uninterrupted education to schooling rates, girls' education, child brides' reduction. Mr. Secretary accepts that as well. To give up this system, there must be grounds for reason, reason, science. None of the reasons, no one of the reasons, are considered a reasonable reason to divide eight years of uninterrupted education. Therefore, this law is a law that lays dynamite on the basis of the state and the nation, and its consequences will be very severe, and its rejection is absolutely mandatory. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your great coven once again, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0536par0144	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0537par0147	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0536par0148	I'll submit the proposal to your votes, but there's a call request, and I'll grant it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Baydar, Mr. Koren, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Editoglu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Çalebi, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Özbolat, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Illum. I'll give you a minute, Mr. Lawmakers. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Interim Article 61, which is added to Law 2547 with Article 16 of the current 199 Order Numbered Law Proposal. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends Interim Article 61 - In terms of students who are studying at secondary education institutions applying for a vocational programme as of the date this clause enters into force, the laws of the legislation prior to the date of this clause are implemented in calculating the mid-school success points to be added from central exams in the same vocational programmes established by the institute of higher education." Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you proper consideration. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0538par0168	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0536par0169	I'm reading the reason: This amendment is proposed in order to protect the rights of students who have entered and studied a vocational programme under the rules before the amendments. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 17th article, which I shall have read according to the order of its arrival and process according to its contradictions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of Justice and Education's Law and Rize MP Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı; Justice and Development Party MP Ahmet Aydın and Şamormarash MP Mahir Ünal; Vice President of the Constitution and Vice President of the Council of Justice and Education; Minister of Justice and 2 MPs of the Constitution; Minister of State of State of State of State for the Constitution; Minister of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of the Constitution; Minister of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of the Council of State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State and the Constitution; In addition to Article 17-2547 of the Law, the central body was removed from the text of a university, or the text of a substance in the same article, in the form of the mid-level achievement points of the declaration. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahnamaraş MP Mahir Ünal; First-level Justice and Development Party Deputy Chairs Nurettin Canikli; Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş; İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı; Justice and Development Party Deputy Ahmet Aydın and Şemarmarash MP Ahmet Aydın; First-level Justice and Development Party (Second) Assession of Some Laws and Rize MP Hayati Yaşin Yaserın Yaserı, 2 MPs; Minister of Higher Education Agency (Secressssal) and Ministership of the Security Agency (Secrets of the Constitution); Justice and Development Party (Seconds of the Constitutional Law) with the Constitutional Council (Seconds of the Council of Ministers) and the Council of Ministers (Secrets of Ministers of Ministers) and the Council of Ministers (Secures). We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0539par0183	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0536par0184	İhsan Özkes, İstanbul MP, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0540par0187	Mr. President, I've been a religious and moral teacher for a brief period of time. In this lesson, there were surahs, explanations, the life of Muhammad, and the knowledge of Islam, such as the 32 precepts. In the knowledge of religion and morality, which are constrained by necessity, there are, at least, partial provisions brought in by this law. What you did, Mr. Kenan, where you were a product, the Universe had already brought a significant amount in 1980.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0541par0189	Speak decently, decently!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0540par0190	As CHP, Mr. President Kemal Kilicdaroglu, we have made it clear from the beginning that we are here to concentrate on the program for imam-haki high school and Kur'an courses, which will raise religious officials, particularly. All of Turkey's imam-hatip schools have been opened by parties outside today's ruling mentality. The Republican People's Party is one of the most imam-gathering parties. However, religious abusers, who have not opened a single imam-gay in their political history, have continued to do politics through imam-hatred. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers in Turkey have always been accused by the Republican People's Party, who have begun to run on religion, on faith, and who have refused to engage in religious politics. We do not consider touching anyone, nor do we consider the second prophet, nor do we desire prayer, nor do we compare anyone to the Most Holy, the Most Merciful, the Ayyub. Because the European Union wants us to, we don't take the verse out of the wars, we don't take Muhammad out the word. We didn't give Israel the minefield for forty-four years, and we didn't want to give it to him. We didn't receive the Jewish Supreme Courage Award. We didn't pick Rasmussen, the NATO Secretary General, who supported the cartoon that made Muhammad look like a terrorist. We condemned NATO soldiers who burned Korans in Afghanistan. We're not the great Middle East Co-Chair. We didn't pray to American soldiers who burned mosques in Iraq, raped Muslims, bled children, orphaned children. We condemned the American soldiers who made toilets for the Muslims they killed in Afghanistan. We've never been enemies of any Islamic country where Israel is an enemy. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, why isn't the abuse of religion falling off the agenda of our country? Because to deliver goods is to create tensions over religion, those who want to reign. The mind that put the Qur'an on the tip of a spear when it was about to lose the war a thousand and four hundred years ago, when it's stuck today, it hides behind the Quran and uses the great Quran for its injustices.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0542par0199	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0540par0200	Yesterday, Hazreti Ali said it was a game, a trick, a scheme, but he couldn't tell around, but today, the righteousness of the Lord Ali, the injustice of those who abused the Quran, is accepted by all Muslims. Mr. President, high-profile lawmakers, religion is political; if religion is used to politics, the simplicity of that religion, the sincerity of that religion, the religious life, is nothing more than vanity. In this case, both religion and politics will suffer. However, those who practice politics by means of religion become masters of sovereignty, possessions - religion for the people, faith for themselves. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The Republican People's Party has established the chairmanship of Religious Affairs. It's the first time he's opened imam-gap schools in this country, he's opened the seminary. The Qur'an of the Religion of Truth has made the Qur'an declaration. Sahih-i had his translation translated. No one learned Islam from parties that deceived God. Turkey has been Muslim for a thousand years before today's power, and will remain Muslim until the end of the day. The AKP has been around for ten years, the Republican People's Party has been around for eighty-nine years. The People of the CHP were Muslims when you were not in political history, and tomorrow when you fell from power, they will remain Muslims. (HIP lines, applause) And you owe it to God to become a Muslim, then to the Republican People's Party. And know that Allah forgives those who go to the tavern with their own money, but Allah forgives those who take away the right hand. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Mr. President, it's wrong to draw the education and teaching of our children into the political field, Mr. President, concerned with the 74 million. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Especially when it comes to making a matter of such importance a religious veiled exploitation material, it's a mistake that can't be compensated. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0543par0213	Thank you, Mr. Ozkes. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of Justice and Education's Law and Rize MP Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı; Justice and Development Party MP Ahmet Aydın and Şamormarash MP Mahir Ünal; Vice President of the Constitution and Vice President of the Council of Justice and Education; Minister of Justice and 2 MPs of the Constitution; Minister of State of State of State of State for the Constitution; Minister of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of the Constitution; Minister of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of the Council of State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State and the Constitution; In addition to Article 17-2547 of the Law, the central body was removed from the text of a university, or the text of a substance in the same article, in the form of the mid-level achievement points of the declaration. Reşat Right (Tokat) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0544par0223	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0543par0224	It's Reshad Right, Slap Congressman who wants a word on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0545par0227	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 17 of Law Proposal No. 199. I salute the High Council. We're discussing a very important law. National education, of course, has to be a very special law about the future of our country, the future of our young people, every part of it, every part of it. It was ideal for such an important law to be passed in a great understanding, with all sides being heard together, but as it turns out, we are faced with a law that has been brought to the palas pandiras. Congressmans, of course, why was this law brought in so quickly when it was brought in so quickly? Everyone thinks of different subjects and questions. Of course, at this point, when we were thinking with our friends, with our own group, we had to evaluate it at various points. The National Movement Party has deeply cared about the law on national education, and has placed a very important study that holds about 175 pages ahead of the 1999 elections, which has been made public in the following times, in 2007, and in 2011, in the most important issues that need to be done by updating them. But of course, we're considering the law that's being brought in right now -- I mean, when it's looked at -- what it's covering, what it's not covering. As the National Movement Party assessed this, it specifically intended that national education was crucial and that national education would all be resolved. Members of parliament, of course, when we looked at this law, it was especially important for us to include Koran-dırim courses, education courses, and the chairman of the Nationalist Movement Party, after the speech of Mr. Doctor State Gardenli, and with the persistent attitude of the Nationalist Action Party Group, the motions were later adopted along with the proposals of the AKP. But it's true that if the National Movement Party Group hadn't been here, and he had a strong insistence, maybe none of this would have been put within the law. Of course, we've all seen one of the unsubs here together. Again, a proposal for the head cover has just been made, and it has been rejected by the AKP's votes. I'm wondering how you're going to explain this to the public. Isn't that what's been said or expected over the years? In fact, during the 1999 elections, what was said especially in AKP's public discourse? They were saying that we would fight poverty, we would fight prohibitions, and we would go on all sorts of issues about our country's democratisation. So, in the fight against bans, was there no subject of the veil? Why are we in the process of solving the headgear when we're right in front of us? Of course, I'd also like to say that our people are keeping an eye on it. Of course, while this law is being brought up here -- and it's just been brought up by various speakers -- there are very serious questions in people's minds about computer importing the tablet. Look, you've lifted this out of the Public Contraction Act, and we're standing in front of about $10 billion, which is about 20 billion, and no matter how much you say about it, I don't think the public thinks I'm satisfied, and there's doubt about it. And also, of course, when it comes to valuable lawmakers, tablet computers, right now, I think the most important problems in our country are addictions. This is one of the most important issues of the 21st century. When it's called addiction, it involves substance abuse, Internet addiction. Look, right now all the schools in our country have very serious problems with substance-related issues, valued lawmakers. See, Turkish Education-Sen has a study on 1,370 teachers. When we look inside this study, 79.2% of students face problems with harmful substance use. Another 79 per cent of them face smoking, 6.4 per cent of them face alcohol use, and 2 per cent face drug use. So our schools are almost bankrupt, and the Ministry of National Education is not in this direction at all. Look, there's a project called Project ESPAD. I'm calling to Mr. Prime Minister that four Minister of National Education have passed by, and the ESPAD Project has not been implemented. Therefore, this must be discussed. It's a huge injustice to Turkish youth, Turkish children. Besides, it's an Internet addiction. See, as far as Internet addiction is concerned, when there are no legal procedures for safe Internet use in front of us, when there are no studies, we get up, we try to give each of our children tablet computers at once. Of course, I'm not against computers, I'm against computers, but we have a very serious problem ahead of us. We all have children now, we all have grandchildren. Dear lawmakers, when you go home, you see all those kids playing games, they're all playing games. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So I also think that the consequences should be on top of the Ministry of National Education. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0546par0243	Thank you, Mr. Right. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Congressmans, there's a motion for a new clause violation that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of Justice and Education Law and Vice Presidents of Rize MP Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı; Justice and Development Party MP Ahmet Aydın and Şamormarash MP Mahir Ünal; Vice President of the Constitution and Vice Minister of the Council of Justice and Education; Minister of Justice and 2 MPs of Justice and 2 MPs about to make changes in the Law; Minister of State of Higher Education Organization; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Constitutional Affairs; Minister of the Constitution and the Council of the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of the Constitution and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council; Minister of State of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State and the Council of Justice and the Constitution; "The title of Article 25 of Article 2809, dated 18-28/3/1983 and under the title of Article 25 of the Higher Education Institutions Act 2809, has been changed to "Alparslan Türkesh University" in its first joke.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0547par0250	Mr. President, our commissioners are here. Please have Mr. President call the Commissioners.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0546par0251	Mr. President, call the Commissioners. I'm also going to ask the Commission, and if the Commission agrees with the motion in large part, I'm going to open a new debate on the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0547par0253	Sir, we hope that the name of Alparslan Türkesh University will not be rejected by the AKP Group.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0546par0254	If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. We can't participate because we don't have a majority, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0547par0256	Did you call? Our MPs are here.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0546par0257	Mr. President, do you have a majority? We can't participate because we don't have a majority, Mr. President. Thank you, I'm dropping the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0548par0260	Unfortunately, the only majority was not provided by the AKP. The name "Alparslan Türkesh" is so rejected by the AKP.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0546par0261	Mr. Vural, do you have a motion on Article 18?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0548par0262	We have a motion, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0546par0263	There are three motions on the 18th article, which I will have read according to the order of the arrival and process according to their contradictions. To the presidency of TBM, This is the 18th Law Proposal in the current 199th row. On the basis of the article, we would like to ask that the declaration of the University of Bulent Ecevit be replaced by,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same. I'm going to read these motions and process them together, and I'm going to promise them separately at the request of the motion makers. We propose and propose that the Article 18 of Article 199 be removed from the text of the bill. Is the commission agreeing to the same motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0549par0273	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0546par0274	İhsan Özkes, İstanbul MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0550par0276	Teacher, don't get in the tank!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0546par0277	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0551par0278	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, this bill has come to this great House with violence and bullying. There were talks at the National Education Commission on up to six articles, and in his speech in Mardin, Mr. Prime Minister said, "This law will be passed." After that, we encountered unimaginable violence and coercion by ruling party lawmakers. Some 20 articles were voted on in the environment of pushing, screaming, screaming, kicking, slapping, rage and violence, and were supposedly accepted by the Commission. In an environment where no one hears or understands anyone, how can education and teaching be accepted? Accepting something that didn't happen, admitting there was something that was destroyed, it's too much for a man who doesn't get a share of civilization in the most remote part of the world, let alone a representative of a nation. Even in the middle of nowhere, you can't make a decision like that. In an unhuman environment and in a method, no decision can be made. Unfortunately, this funny, weird and unacceptable practice is happening in this House. It is not appropriate for this unspoken, unspoken, uncontroversial proposal to be brought to this grand assembly and to be negotiated. It is decided that 74 million will come in violation of the law. While there are no pumpkins growing in the chaos, there is a law on education in this great House that will raise the people of our future through chaos and imposition. An ambition, revenge, rematch cannot be manipulated by the future of the nation and the country, the Prime Minister has no right. As a matter of fact, Mr. President also felt the need to point out that rematch practices are not true. The first religious youth in the history of Islam and the gate of the city of science, Lord Ali, is that you raise your children in their own time, not in your own time. Congressmans, it would be difficult for our country to make amends if such a vital law were to be enforced, imposed and challenged. Mr. President Kemal Kilicdaroglu extends his hand over and over again, but the Prime Minister does not approach compromise with a proud attitude. Every day, even to the Padişah, don't be proud, Padişah, there is a God greater than you. Is it a democracy if you stay away from compromise? The gift of happiness is the means of human life. An uncompromising democracy is a dry word. Love, respect, peace, and blessings are only possible by compromise. Their work is also written in the first legislature. I would like to remind you of its motto. We are in power, we are in power, we are in power, and we are a majority, we pass the law in any way we want. It's not just about the people who voted for you, it's about the people who didn't vote for you, and you don't get the opinion of the people who voted for you when you made that decision. You have no right, you can't do that. When we say: "Let us beat you, but let us not pity you when we strike you, and let not your voice be heard." These things are neither human nor moral. Mr. President, when the Honorable Muhammad made a decision a thousand and four hundred years ago, the people of that day were saying: "Is this God's command to you, or is it your own?" If our beloved Prophet says, "Is it my opinion?" This time, your opinion has this saying, "Your opinion is wrong, it's better this way." They were saying, "It's usually that Hazreti Muhammad was wrong and subjecting himself to their opinions. There are dozens of examples. Even the Lord Muhammad could have been criticized a thousand and four hundred years ago, but how can a Prime Minister be explained in 2012? The Prime Minister is now instructing the immediate release of this law. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not the AKP's farm, and the Prime Minister is not the master of this farm, and we are not its peasants. The Prime Minister is not great, and we are not his subjects. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The future of the nation, the guarantee of our future, the law on our children, cannot be seen as a simple task to be done in the manner of the Cabaret, and to be done in the time required. Only a spiteful generation grows from such practices. But spite doesn't match our religion. See what Yunus Emre says: I'd go out with a grudge, No one holds a grudge. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0552par0292	Thank you, Mr. Ozkes. The other speaker, Hasip Kaplan, hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0553par0295	Mr. President, good lawmakers, one religion, faith, the other language, culture; these are not forbidden. If there is a ban, it is not a democracy; it is a tyranny, it is a dictatorship, or it is a tyrant. It's possible to increase the names of this, but it seems that the NGO is still in Turkey, in secret, watching students who want to study Kurdish at universities and report to the government every four months. Now, I'd like to ask you, two Deputy Prime Ministers of the government are here: When are you going to give up on this habit of tagging, tracking, firing rights seekers, handcuffing, incarceration, and then declaring them terrorists? When will you be on the side of freedom? When will you face the fact that we have a multicultural, multilingual reality? See, it says that one third of the 75 million people with real numbers in Turkey are not Turkish, but are 8-9 different languages spoken widely, see 8-9. Again, in the world, on Earth, outside homogeneous countries like Korea, it's often known that there is multiculturalism. Seven of the Turkish republics from Central Asia are coming together, speaking Russian amongst themselves, heads of state because they're getting different, the dialects, the cultures are getting different. Now, you look up to many modern countries. Language is existence, identity; you all know it. It's as real as the sun, and even though you know it, you're taking over a prohibitive mentality, a status quo mindset, and you're doing exactly the same. You take the administrative structure of France, but you don't take the diction, the language law. You don't give freedom to languages. You know the Indian Declaration of Local Peoples, you sign international contracts; you put them all in reservations. You don't sign the Convention on Child Rights, the Convention on Civil and Political Rights, the Economic and Social Contract, and the Framework Convention in the European Union. Because it frightens you that over 20 million Kurdish citizens speak in their own language, live their own culture, their own identity. That's why you're banning this holiday. When his own songs, his own aunt, his own clothes, his own folklore, his own enthusiasm, when he demonstrates his disparity to the fields, panzers, armors, gas bombs go to them, and I'll tell you the truth: Mr. Prime Minister is going to Germany, where he talks about minority status; the language and culture issue of our citizens living there is coming to the agenda. Turkey is coming, not seeing 20 million Kurdish citizens. How is that justice? What kind of conscience is that? What kind of morality is that? What kind of democracy is this? How is that human? What kind of brotherhood is that? How is that even? How is this management? Damn this discrimination, damn it! To hell with this discrimination, this oppression, this dictatorship, this ban, those who defend it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0554par0301	Mr. Kaplan, please speak in a clean language. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0553par0302	I curse them all. (Applause from BDP rows) I curse and protest all those who continue to discriminate. Here, make your own law. I suppose the Prime Minister will come anyway; you're all here because of his future. You'll have to pass this law, too. Here, take it off. As long as you don't get rid of this discrimination, you'll get caught up in it. If you want peace in this country, you want peace and democracy, we have to solve it, we have to solve it. There's no other way in front of us politicians. Either we figure it out, or we come here every day and we fight. There's no other way. When you speak the truth, it's hard for you. You're pushing it, you're pushing it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But remember, the right ones win, the right ones always win. Victory is for those who are right. You'll accept that.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0555par0307	Mr. Kaplan, please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0553par0308	Believe me, one day we're going to remind you of these days, and we're going to look at you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0555par0310	I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions of the same nature have not been accepted. To the presidency of TBM, This is the 18th Law Proposal in the current 199th row. On the basis of the article, we would like to ask that the declaration of the University of Bulent Ecevit be replaced by,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Özcan Yeniçeri (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0556par0318	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0557par0319	The commission continues to disagree constantly.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0555par0320	Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the proposal.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0557par0322	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, the great nations, are the nations with great tolerance. From the 1944 coffin case to September 12th, 1982...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0558par0323	You won't look here, you'll look there!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0557par0324	You know what I'm gonna say?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0558par0325	Look over there and say it!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0557par0326	I'll take care of you! Sit down!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0559par0327	Congressmans, why are you interfering? Please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0557par0328	From the 1944 casket case to September 12th, however antidemocratic and despotic regimes there are, he has directly dealt with it and is a great man who has taken his place in the heart of the Turkish nation, Alparslan Turkesh. (Applause from MHP rows) Alparslan Türkesh, in order to break down the barriers, in order to overcome the obstacles, in order to solve problems. He used to say that Alparslan Turkesh was a flag of every Turkish youth, just as he was able to raise his son in order to serve this nation, and you must be so spotless and shadowless. I'm as sure of this as my conscience: Now, just because this bill doesn't go through with it doesn't mean it's not acceptable here. The fundamental problem here is the difference between what people believe and what they really put into their hearts. This difference, in fact, may be a new concept, but I'll tell you this, it's called psychological contamination. It's the backbone that makes man human, because with his mind, man is just a soul, and with his appetite, he's just an animal. More specifically, reptile human is a type of human being that modern societies impose on. Here's the easiest job a person can do in a society like this is to sacrifice their honors to their comforts or their politics. The comforts of individuals are increased according to the level of self - sacrifice made from honor. Once honor is indexed to comfort, there is a continuity in the process. It's easy for those who decide on a comfortable life. Psychological contamination... [[What are you talking about from the AK PARTY lines?]] Here's the situation, here's the situation. What was the public view on May 19, 1919, and what was the view of this Assembly? Psychological contamination is basically a mechanism that operates against itself in the mind. If the individual can give up his personality and his thoughts for one reason or another, then he has become a volunteer if he agrees with a process that is his enemy. In a way, such a thing means that its mental processes have been disabled in terms of material gains or political interests. So you are deeply involved in the plans that we bring and speak of, but you refuse; yes, it should be. You say, "But you disagree." So, why? Because you didn't bring it yourself, because you didn't express it yourself. Now, democracy, as it is thought, is not freedom that people know themselves or that they know their own followers; democracy is about giving the right, the honest, the right, the right, the right, the clear. So with that famous phrase, we call the notion of giving everyone their dues, giving everyone their rights, we call it the "democracy." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If this democracy really had been a part of it, there would be a majority of minorities now, and a majority would be a minority.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0560par0336	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0557par0337	I thank you, too.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0560par0339	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Three motions concerning the 19th article are the same. I'm going to read these motions and process them together, and I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, if they want to. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 19th Amendment bill of the 199th row be removed from the text of the bill.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0561par0345	Why didn't you read the title of the motion? I mean, come on!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0560par0346	Does the commission agree with three proposals of the same nature? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0562par0349	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0560par0350	Ali Haydar Öker, MP of Isparta who wants a word on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0563par0353	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, what are we dealing with at this time of night when our country has all these important problems? I stand before you, though it is an invalid text to speak the truth, to be the voice of common sense, and to speak the truth without fear of anyone.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0564par0354	Don't bother! Don't bother!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0563par0355	There are arrested MPs in the country, elected by national will, still inside. Mr. Prime Minister did not meet his requirements, even though he approved the statement of the agreement.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0565par0356	You got the wrong paper, wrong!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0563par0357	There are arrested journalists back home, and they smell like concrete and mold. The academics are inside. Those who are suspected of devouring the Lighthouse are being taken off the stand, prosecutors are being tried. The students are under arrest. The Initiative Act is disappointing, and the frog's eye will come out until the water comes in the stream. Farmers can't fill tractor tanks, they're falling behind in the production process. The earthquake victims are devastated. The poor need charity. Unsubstantiated, suicide teachers knock on the door of the Ministry every day, awaiting the fulfillment of their promises, and innocent children, innocent subjects of all these games, who want to be played ideologically. Who is Recep Tayyip Erdogan who has been asked to be named at Rize University? He's the Prime Minister who called him a martyr!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0565par0360	Get out of here!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0563par0361	Yeah. You all know it. The Prime Minister, who called the terrorist leader a terrorist!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0565par0363	Respect! You've been governor.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0563par0364	Let's send men to their representatives and pick them up if there's a governor, a police commissioner, whom you don't like.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0565par0365	That's not what you said when you were governor.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0566par0366	You were waiting for the main stop six months ago.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0563par0367	I've stood up too long, I'm not answering you. The Prime Minister who insulted the farmer's mother!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0567par0370	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0563par0371	He's the one who threatens young people who have been beaten by cryptic tests, who has not been denied their rights, who has controlled the army, the judiciary, the press, the law, the Inhisars Administration. In Simav's speech, the earthquake victims are waiting for help, not thinking that there are people from all sides of the earthquake, will lick what they spit on the prime minister's bus. The Prime Minister who insulted the MPs who were elected by the will of the nation! (AK PARTY rankings) However, what is NATO doing in Libya? The Prime Minister who called Izmir to NATO and told him that he was spitting himself out!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0567par0374	Mr. Proposal, please, Mr. Proposal, please speak in a clean language.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0563par0375	In the same way, CHP-based municipalities slander and transfer funds to the PKK. He who forgets after saying so, also licks his own spit in internal politics! The Prime Minister who held the bus against the door of the mosque of Süleymaniye, who used the religious instrument and deprived the president of the Religious Affairs of the right to feast with the congregation! Remember, in the mosque, Mr. Prime Minister and his deputies feasted on the congregation, and the President of Religious Affairs was denied the right to feast. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Do not be arrogant. These people know that they will humiliate you with their understanding, just as they have honored you. The days of deception, deception, intimidation are over, and one day he'll turn you from a truck into a watermelon. Good evening.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0568par0381	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0569par0382	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0568par0383	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker has made a formal statement accusing the President of our Group. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0569par0384	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes, alone, without any more bullying.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0568par0389	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Democracy is a system of virtue; democracy is a system where people can speak freely, but when they speak freely, it's a system where they don't come out of humanity. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] A year ago, in front of the Prime Minister, who he objected to, criticized, expressed in different ways, the Prime Minister. Those who said, "I am the Prime Minister." Today, they have the right to insult that Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0570par0394	No...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0568par0395	A year ago, when I was sucking up, now you come...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0571par0396	Look over there!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0572par0397	Look over there, over there!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0568par0398	...you're talking about what you want with the freedom of the legislature, but democracy has never given anyone the right to insult anyone.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0571par0399	You're describing yourself.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0568par0400	Look, the expression that he's been licking his mouth, Mr. Prime Minister, he's been in power for ten years now.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0573par0401	Look in the mirror and talk.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0568par0402	If you look in the mirror, you'll see who's what. ...has been in politics for thirty years, one of the most important leaders in both Turkey and the world. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Oh, you may not see it in your own leader, but no one has the right to insult the Prime Minister, whom this country embraces, embraces, places in its heart, puts in a very important position in a very important corner.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0574par0406	I'm not insulting you, I'm telling you the truth.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0568par0407	You may be jealous, but if you work, so will you. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Look, the esteemed MPs are the only leaders who have led their party to the summit in five elections, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0575par0412	Sir, I'd like to take your word for it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0576par0413	What did he say?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0577par0414	Just a second, Congressman, please! Why did he pick on you? What did he say?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0578par0416	The term "kissing" was used.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0577par0417	Here you go, Mr. Proposal. But, please, before you start picking on me again. Two minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0579par0421	Guys, my record's in the file.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0580par0422	We're not your friends. What a friend!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0579par0423	And I feared not any soul save Allah. I didn't kiss anybody's ass. He's the asshole who doesn't prove I'm a kiss-ass.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0581par0425	You're the one who called me Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0579par0426	I came by taking off my own tie. I am here to be the voice of common sense, to speak the truth without fear of anyone, without hesitation. On the morning of the election, in the second September 12th, in the referendum rally, I knew I had the Prime Minister's posters removed in Isparta. I would have followed him. He said, "He sent me to the centipede, and he didn't dare take me to the centre." Okay?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0582par0428	Come on, come on!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0579par0429	It's not just that, it's not that. Mr. Bashir Atalay said, "Why didn't you consult us?" Asked, the answer was that my application was correct. The referendum was held on September 12th, and the answer was held on October 18th.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0583par0430	Then you kissed someone else's ass to run for office.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0579par0431	I've never been afraid or afraid of anyone. The Prime Minister himself is a witness. If anyone can prove that I've been sucking up to him on a single day, if anyone can prove that I'm bowing down, I'll quit the legislature, can you guys quit?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0584par0433	Thank you, Mr. Proposal. [[Continue]] I'm reading the reason for the other motion: It is considered unethical to give the names of the Living States elders to institutions and organizations. With this change, the university is intended to retain the name ▪Rize University, which is being used today. I'm also reading the reason for the Peace and Democracy Party: Today, there are 165 universities in our country, with newly opened universities, with 103 state 62 state foundations. Colleges are referred to by their names. In the national and international arena, the university is recognized by its name. And under that name, each university creates its own culture. The names of the universities are unfortunately determined as the centre of science workers, students studying at that university, and the opinion of citizens living in the city of the university not to be determined. As the center of university names, it is not right to determine or change the political and ideological maneuvers of political authorities. University names should be determined by university scientists, students studying, and citizens living in the city where the university is located to fit the fabric of the city. When you're in charge of a head of state, your name is any institution, street, street, etc. It's not ethical to be given away. I submit three motions of the same nature to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Congressmans, there's a motion for a new clause, I'll have it read and processed accordingly...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0585par0448	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister is gone, friends can go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to Law Proposal 199, and the following clauses be identified. "The declarations of the University of Bilekik have been changed in the form of Sheikh Edebali University, which is included in the title of Article 20-2809 and in the first joke.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0586par0452	Mr. President, please call the Commissioners.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0587par0453	I'm going to ask the Commission now. If the commission agrees to the motion with the majority, I will open the debate on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Mr. Commission, do you agree with most of the time? Mr. President, we can't participate because we don't have a majority. I'm removing the motion from the process.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0588par0457	That's a shame for you. You don't have the heart to build a university for Sheikh Edebali, friends. Pity! Pity!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0589par0458	We'll set it up, don't worry.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0587par0459	There are three motions on the 20th article, which I will have read according to the order of the arrival and process according to their contradictions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of Justice and Education's Law and Rize MP Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı; Justice and Development Party MP Ahmet Aydın and Şamormarash MP Mahir Ünal; Vice President of the Constitution and Vice President of the Council of Justice and Education; Minister of Justice and 2 Congressmans of the Constitution; Minister of State of State of State for the Constitution; Minister of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State for the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of the State of State of State of State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of the Council of State of State of State of the Constitution and the Constitution; Minister of State of State of State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution; The title of Article 129 of Law No. 20-2809 has been changed to "Necmuttin Erbakan University" in its first joke. Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same, so I'm going to proceed accordingly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahnamaraş MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister's Law and Development Party's Deputy Chairs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı; Justice and Development Party Chair Ahmet Aydın and Şeymaraş MP's Council; Minister of Justice and Education Act for Some Laws; Minister of Law and Rize MP Hayati Yaşin Yaserı and 2 Congressman's Office; Minister's Office of Higher Institutions Agency for Peace; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Ministership of the Constitution; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Ministership of State of State of Justice and Development; Ministership of the Council of Justice and Development; Ministers of State of the Constitution and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Constitution; Minister of State of the Constitution and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of the Council of State of Justice and the Council; Mes and the Council of the Council of State of Justice and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of State of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers and the Council of State of Ministers and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Ministers and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Ministers; We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the two motions of the same nature? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0590par0469	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0587par0470	Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0591par0471	Motive...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0587par0472	I'm reading the reason: Reason: Today, there are 165 universities in our country, along with the newly established universities in recent years, with 103 of which are state 62. Colleges are referred to by their names. In the national and international arena, the university is recognized by its name. And under that name, each university creates its own culture. The names of the universities are unfortunately determined as the centre of science workers, students studying at that university, and the opinion of citizens living in the city of the university not to be determined. As the center of university names, it is not right to determine or change the political and ideological maneuvers of political authorities. University names should be determined by university scientists, students studying, and citizens living in the city where the university is located to fit the fabric of the city. Free Special, Manisa MP, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0592par0476	Mr. President, thank you very much and I salute your esteemed deputies. What we're trying to do here today is that the law is going through with flaws because we've never been able to make our views on the first seven clauses in the Commission, and we haven't been able to talk. Then, we would expect that the matter would come as possible, but you brought back the 27-point law to bring it to an end, and after the 7th article, the articles were not discussed in both the Commission and here one by one. There's something so wrong that a motion is made, but on top of the motion, under the Civil Code, only the givers can speak. That's why you made such a mistake today, such a flaw that we didn't get a chance to express it, to cleanse the High Assembly of this error, to keep it away. In the motion you have made today and in the accepted motion, the life of our Qur'an and Holy Prophet will be taught as an elective lesson. I believe in the Qur'an, I believe in it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0593par0479	Well done!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0592par0480	Muhammad is my prophet, and I am Muslim, but this is a text of the law. In the text of the law, if you call a prophet ▪ Our Prophet, in the text of a law that will cover all citizens of a state, you will have a great flaw and flaw in all your citizens who are members of other religions in that country. It's a very important mistake, and it's a very wrong job. Today's work is an instrument of religious politics. Each and every one of you will pay for it in the next world. But you, who have taken the students' future out of the Public Contractor's Act and pursued a $20 billion rant, will account for it as soon as possible, in the power of the Republican People's Party, before the supreme judiciary.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0594par0482	You're imagining things.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0592par0483	Mr. Nabi Hunter, with tonton cheeks, white mustache, white hair, from the outside...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0595par0484	Lies, lies.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0592par0485	...a person with a more democratic understanding than the average AKP member with the testimony of our members in the commission. We went to that Commission with that understanding.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0595par0486	It's a fake. It's got a mask on it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0592par0487	And for the first seven points, let's face it, he had a little intervention, but he didn't limit his ability to speak there. On Saturday night, when we left that Commission, a clause passed every day until that day. We were very tired on Friday night, Mr. Group Presidents made a gesture, considering the health of the Commission and the recommendations of the doctors, leaving early. Mr. President said thank you the next day. We passed two items on Saturday night, and he said, "This is a very important gesture. Hopefully tomorrow we'll have a much better day together. We went there the day you called it tomorrow, which was a day of violence and a day of black democracy, with the hand of Mr. Nabi Avcı. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I say to Mr. Nabi Avcı, here he set up all his defenses on the televisions and here he was spoken for 90 hours on the first seven articles, and I promised everyone in the first seven articles. Mr. Nabi Avcı, you are the teacher. Let me ask you this: If you had 27 students, if you treated seven of them well and raised them well, if you were very compassionate, if you beat up 20 of them, would you be a compassionate teacher? [[Applause from CHP rows]] If the Prime Minister gives you 27 sheep, you feed them well, you feed them well, they grow up, and then you lose 20 of them, you tell the Prime Minister that I took very good care of the first seven. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Nabi Hunter, if you were a civil servant, it would take twenty-seven years. In the first seven years, if you were to be very honest, very honest, take the rest of the 20 years with the hammock, will you be an honest bureaucrat? [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Mr. Nabi Avcı, you are a graduate of Eskişehir Maarif College, and I am a graduate of Izmir Maarif College. I read the letter from your teacher Mehmet. Let me tell you this: I hope it doesn't come from one of my letter teachers, but if such a letter comes to me, no commissioner's office, no office of office, no congressional office, all of this, if I get a letter like that from a teacher, let it be forbidden to me! [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] I pay my respects. I'm delivering this letter to you, Mr. Nabi Hunter, in case he doesn't make it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0596par0500	Here you go, Mr. Hunter. Mr. President, Congressman, what a process we've been going through in the Commission...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0597par0502	Teacher, read the letter, the letter.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0598par0503	Read the letter, Hajji, the letter. On Sunday (March 11th), we made a full statement in the parliament. [[Noises in CHP and MHP rows]] Teacher, you can't even say it on the microphone, you can't say it!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0599par0507	A black day, a black day!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0600par0508	Your hair is white, Teacher, your hair is white!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0601par0509	Congressmans, please listen.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0599par0510	There's nothing to rest for, sir, a man's ritual is a man's work. But I told you what had to be done after what happened in the March 8th Women's Day meeting before that.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0602par0512	It's beneath you not to tell the truth, Hajji, your hair is white!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0603par0513	Teacher Nabi, it doesn't suit you. It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0604par0514	So for God's sake, tell the truth, for God's sake, tell the truth.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0605par0515	Did I raise you to do this? The teacher wrote, "Nabi."
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0606par0517	Shut up and listen!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0607par0518	Why should we shut it down? Come on, Mr. Sadi, shut up.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0608par0519	Please, let's go to the trouble of listening. It wasn't enough for you, either, at the Commission meeting, when you invaded the bench on March 8th, when you came to the stand and said, "There will be blood here."
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0607par0521	Who said there's gonna be blood?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0609par0522	Your hair is white, Teacher Nabi! I said to you, don't accept our kindness. I've told you this many times, you haven't listened... Your hair is white, Master, is it good for you not to tell the truth?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0610par0525	What were you going to do, Mr. Nabi?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0611par0526	What kind of language is that? You've often attempted to invade the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0612par0528	When did this happen?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0613par0529	Bodyguards. You attempted on Sunday (March 11th) not to run the Presidential Court, to paralyze the Commission, as instructed by your president-in-chief.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0614par0532	You're making false statements, you're not speaking the truth!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0615par0533	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0616par0534	Shame, shame! Your vice president of the group...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0617par0536	Please complete your statement, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0618par0537	Mr. President, you did what you criticized yourself, regardless of your age. NURSE RETURN, CLUB, TEENAGE AND SPOR COMMISSION, THE NABI AVCI (Eskişehir) has taken the lead of the attacks, and so far none of you have ever apologized.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0619par0540	Who's going to apologize?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0620par0541	You're the one who's going to apologize, you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0618par0542	Did you get revenge, Hodja? Now, tell me, on his own private site...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0621par0544	Your teacher listens to you, your teacher. Your teacher condemns you! A retired teacher who writes praise poems for Kilicdaroglu. You're bringing me a letter from a retired teacher who writes poems and so on.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0622par0546	Your teacher says I'm a student who hasn't taken some classes. He says I haven't been able to teach some things. You will apologize for what you did first.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0623par0549	You're the one who's going to apologize. I'm not going to take anything you say seriously until you apologize. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You're the one who filed the document against the truth.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0624par0553	Apologise, kickers!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0625par0554	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0626par0555	Mr. President, the Commission...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0627par0556	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0625par0557	One second, Mr. Special, one at a time.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0626par0558	Mr. President, the Commission's implementations have been blocked by the nationalist Action Party's motions due to actual obstruction, the speech of the members of the Commission, even its speech on its previous motions. It's really embarrassing, this black stain that never happened in the commissions in Turkish democracy and parliamentary democracy has occurred in Mr. President's Commission.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0625par0559	Thank you, Mr. Vural, it's been filed.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0626par0560	Therefore, the General Assembly saw that no power could stop the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0625par0561	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0628par0562	Mr. Commissioner...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0629par0563	You have such an excuse for the CHP, but what's your excuse for the National Movement Party, Hodja? Explain that to me. Explain that to me. You have an alibi for the Republican People's Party, what's your excuse for us?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0625par0564	Yes, Mr. Special...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0628par0565	In response to his speech, Mr. Commissioner has told me what I did not say in my speech and what I had never done before in the Commission. I would like to exercise my right to answer in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0625par0567	He didn't tell you, he told your group, if...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0628par0568	No, it's just... you're giving it to me.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0625par0569	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0628par0572	Now, Mr. Nabi Hunter has done something that his apology is greater than his fault. But I'll tell Mr. Nabi Hunter not to express just now...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0630par0573	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs did not say.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0628par0575	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, look, when I just spoke to Mr. President Ahmet Aydın Sir of the Group, he said, "You've been talking to me all the time for 15 days, you wouldn't have done this before. I was going to answer to him, but he was here to give you the answer." After what you did that day at the Commission with Nabi Avcı, you hurt the sense of justice for me and my fellow MPs. (Applause from CHP rows, AK PARTY rows) You've eliminated our faith in parliamentary democracy with this despotic attitude, and you've led us to doubt it. You've given me a day of disgrace to the parliamentary democracy.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0631par0576	Apologize, I'm sorry!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0628par0577	And with the bandit in charge of the Commission and the House, my kindness and patience is gone. Every word I say, every answer I say, every response I make to you, the Republican People's Party, and to all of us, for playing with the hopes of the future of all who try to follow this bill that will affect the future of all of our children, and for the wickedness of your actions, for the tyranny there, for the obvious fascism, you will continue to see this reaction with its magnitude.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0632par0579	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like you to vote on the motions...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0633par0580	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0632par0581	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0633par0582	Mr. Commissioner has made a mockery of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the talks on Sunday's National Education Commission. The Republican People's Party Group was trying to invade the Commission that day, and they were taunting our group with an unrealistic statement.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0634par0583	Is there anyone else who can speak from the CHP? Let's just say.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0632par0584	Mr. Hamzacebi, I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0633par0586	(Istanbul) Mr. President, members of parliament, on Sunday the President of the Commission signed a major violation of the Commission. I'm not going to repeat a lot of what we're talking about, but Mr. Commissioner, even though it's already been written to lawmakers who want a word, does anyone want a word? Mr. Muharrem Eyüt, I want a word. He says seven times, he goes to the reports. Then he says, "No." Those who don't agree... have created a great injustice by voting the clause.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0635par0587	Tell me before, before.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0633par0588	Mr. Hunter, was it worth it? You didn't even follow your own rule: you said: "Let five members of the commission speak and speak for ten minutes. Let three non-members speak for five minutes each. If you had followed the rule you had made, the day would not end, and the day after that would be over. Was it worth it?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0636par0589	Was it worth it to be in this situation?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0633par0590	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Hunter, told you at the press conference about what happened that Sunday. He took a piece of tape in his hand, and he came out, and said, "Hamzacebi threw it at me, and passed by my head.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0637par0591	There are images, images.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0638par0592	Did you throw it away or not?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0633par0593	Dear lawmakers, I answer this in my own words in an interview with the Star newspaper on March 19th.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0638par0594	Did you throw it away or not?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0633par0595	You don't want to... Mr. Avcı says in this interview: I saw the images, and it happened: Hamzacebi can't throw directly at me, there are AKP MPs in front of the Diva, throwing them over them. He says, "When did you see him?" The journalist says, "I saw him fall in front of me." He says, "When did you see him?"
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0638par0597	Did you throw it away or not?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0633par0598	Mr. Hunter, does it look good on you? I'm telling you, aren't you going to share your interview with the public, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? Don't you owe me an apology? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0639par0601	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0640par0602	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0639par0603	Mr. Shandir, please, you have asked for your word.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0640par0606	Mr. President, I'd like to make a contribution to the transcripts of Mr. Commissioner Nabi Avcı Bey's speech. Yes, in the National Board of Education on March 11th -- whoever they are, our nation knows it -- the events that have happened are unacceptable, not acceptable to our Parliament, not to Turkish democracy. The consequences of this are obvious. Those addicts need to get up here and apologize in public together. Mr. Nabi Hunter can't avoid this by blaming one side alone. The second issue is, as a member of my group states, what was the flaw of the National Movement Party Group? What's that over there? We have a request to speak to three members of the Commission, we have a voice request, we have a deputy AKP group leader, he is aware of our request and we have a motion. Our motion is that you present it today, and you don't pay attention to the fine motions, the right motions, which the Parliament's General Assembly accepts, and we call it a good outcome. Therefore, no matter why or who is involved, the negotiations held at the National Education Commission on 11 March 2012 are a violation of the relevant provisions of the Civil Code. Beyond that, it's unbecoming and everyone owes the National Movement Party an apology, and it's unfair. I'd like to put it on the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0641par0610	Thank you, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0642par0611	Let's ask the president.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0643par0612	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0641par0613	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0643par0614	The speaker has just accused our group of despotism. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0641par0615	Mr. Canikli, but please don't give me any more trouble, or it won't end. Here, for two minutes, for bullying...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0643par0620	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. During the first five days of discussion of this proposal in the Commission, our Republican People's Party MP friends mostly came to the Commission in their own statements, not our definition -- occupied for five days.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0644par0622	Who told you, whose testimony?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0643par0623	I don't say it, you do. If you're describing the last day as an invasion of the AK PARTY, the five days of our fellow members of our group, what you're doing, coming in early and sitting in the lines of the Commission, you've done it for five days, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0645par0625	We didn't stop anyone, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0643par0626	You invaded the Commission for five days.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0645par0628	Who did we stop?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0643par0629	Look, I've been a legislator for nine years, and in the commissions so far, no commission has shown any tolerance in this process.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0646par0631	Don't you remember the commission in '97, Mr. Canikli?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0643par0632	There are no 12 hours of talk or hours of conversation on any commission. From this point of view, there is a great injustice to Mr. Nabi Avcı.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0647par0633	You weren't there, how do you know?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0643par0634	I mean, it's a decision, it's a vote, but it's not enforced by violence. It's been built so many times, guys, why don't you see it, why don't you forget it?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0648par0635	What didn't we see? You weren't there.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0643par0636	How many times has this been happening for five days, the Commission has decided, but you didn't enforce it, you invaded the bench.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0648par0637	You weren't there, Canikli!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0643par0638	You used violence, you used algebra, for God's sake!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0649par0639	It's not true!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0643par0640	Just one day, the AK PARTY MPs came in and sat on the Commission early...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0650par0641	The AK PARTY people were sitting on the floor, weren't they?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0651par0642	You're lying!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0643par0643	...and members of the CHP's Commission, including the members of the group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0650par0644	We sat on the ground, the AK PARTY was sitting!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0643par0645	He showed that kindness, and he showed that sensitivity, dear friends. Oh, these, of course, I admit...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0652par0647	You weren't there!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0643par0648	I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0653par0650	Thank you, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0654par0651	Mr. President, Mr. Canicli says we're occupying the bench. It's completely...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0653par0652	Mr. Slim, it looks like it's going to continue until this morning.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0654par0654	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressmans, I'm so glad Mr. Arinc is here. See, bullying, occupation, what happened in '97, newspaper headlines.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0655par0656	Leave the papers alone!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0654par0657	See, then, when the fundamental law is discussed, Mr. Arinc is the opposition MP: these basic law talks are the raw laws of hum winelop. This is the law of Beşiktas in five minutes. (Transgression in the Parliament.) Neither democracy nor morality has turned the Welfare Party, the Plan and Budget Commission, against eight years of education into a war zone. The Welfare Party blocked the Minister of National Education's speech by cutting off his microphone. It's the first time in the history of Parliament. The gong outside to invite the MPs to the General Assembly, they blocked the bell with paper. It's the bell game of the welfare party MPs. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] What else happened? Look, what else happened? Ugly comments... at the time Mr. Gul, Mr. Arinc, Mr. Kapusuz... MP Kapusuz, Deputy Director of the Group, said: "Look what he said: a Welfare Party president donated 30 trillion, died. The captain, who received the testimony of the good one, is dead, and the minister is next. Our teachers are blowing to the Minister now. These are the transcripts. In those years, journalists were again told unspeakable things, journalists were beaten. The occupation is in your tradition. We just protected the nation's stand here in the Civil Code. Bring back the Civil Law, and we will guard it again. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0656par0668	Congressmans, I submit the same motions to your votes:
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0657par0669	But Mr. President, just a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0656par0670	Those who refuse... the motions are not accepted.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0657par0671	Mr. President, about 12 hours, I'm the deputy speaking. This is Mr. Deputy Director of the Group explaining it as if it had been abused. I'd like to ask you for a moment on this.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0656par0672	No, what did he say? He said you talked for 12 hours. What else?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0657par0673	He makes it sound like I abused him.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0656par0674	Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0657par0677	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0656par0678	You asked for a minute, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0658par0680	Mr. President, on what basis did you promise?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0657par0681	Why are you so uncomfortable? If you've been listening for 12 hours, why can't you just listen for a minute?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0658par0682	It wasn't a minute, it was 12 hours.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0657par0683	What is this insufferability? (CHEERING) So what? You've been listening for 12 hours. Why don't you listen for another minute? Why are you so uncomfortable?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0658par0684	We're listening, but where is it in the Civil Code?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0657par0685	Listen... the Speaker doesn't know about your Civil Code, and you know about it as Deputy Director of the Group? Bravo to you!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0658par0686	I do.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0659par0687	The group knows the Vice President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0657par0688	My dear friends, I spoke for 12 hours. Before we talk, dear President, I told him, look, 24 NGOs and occupational rooms have been bugged inside, but you can't explain to the top commission why they rejected them. We won't talk for a minute here. We only want one thing, let Turkey discuss it for a week. Let's hear what scientists, scientists, pedagogs, NGOs say. We'll get up here without talking. If this law comes in the way they want it to, we said yes. We'll give it to them. Just like you can't stand us talking here for a minute.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0658par0689	We're putting up with it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0657par0690	...how you listen to what you've done in the past and what you've done here in the past with a big, nasty smile, no matter what we say, if your heart is sealed, your eyes closed, your ears closed, we say that one day this nation will give you the answer by punishing you for life, not 12 hours. We don't want you to have any doubt about it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0658par0692	He's punished you for life, people, and you'll never be in power again!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0657par0693	Okay, guys? That's all I have to say. Not as the Republican People's Party, not as the MHP, not as the BDP...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0660par0696	Mr. Ozkoch, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0657par0697	...everyone who lives in this country, has a child, will answer for it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0660par0699	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. [[Continue]] I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of Justice and Education's Law and Rize MP Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı; Justice and Development Party MP Ahmet Aydın and Şamormarash MP Mahir Ünal; Vice President of the Constitution and Vice President of the Council of Justice and Education; Minister of Justice and 2 Congressmans of the Constitution; Minister of State of State of State for the Constitution; Minister of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State for the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of the State of State of State of State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of the Council of State of State of State of the Constitution and the Constitution; Minister of State of State of State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution; The title of Article 129 of Law No. 20-2809 has been changed to "Necmuttin Erbakan University" in its first joke. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0661par0713	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0660par0714	Mustafa Kalaycı asking for a word on the motion is the MP of the Constabulary. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0662par0717	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The name of Konya University is renamed Necmettin Erbakan University. Kayseri Ankara MP Salih Kapusuz prepared the proposal and Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli also defended the proposal. Although my friends in the AKP's Democratic Party also signed it, notice that the name of the bill is not mentioned because Mr. Salih Kapusuz is the one who prepared the proposal. So I'm going to come from here, not because we're against it, but because if we're going to name the University of Iconia, it's going to have to come from the Indians, it's got to be Necmettin Erbakan, we have no objection to that.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0663par0719	Kayseri Ercies University was named after Ankara MP.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0662par0720	You didn't take it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0663par0721	It was the Ankara MP who gave the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0662par0722	I wish you'd said yes.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0663par0723	I wish Hajji had given it to me, Halaçoğlu would have given it to me.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0662par0724	I'm going to say, since my very dear Conium MP friends are involved in this, I sincerely wish they'd included us and turned this proposal into a new university, or even a technical university for Konya. You may agree that the name of the technical university would be even better suited to the late Necmudtin Erbakan Hodja. Mr. Elitaş, and thank you for reminding me. We are not opposed to naming the universities after our late elders, but we also vote for the University of Bilecik for the reasons why the name of Sheikh Edebali is not given to Kayseri Ercijas University, and why the name of Alparslan Turkesh. So if you'll come out here and explain why this discrimination, why it's a double standard, come in, please tell me here, it's on the books. Don't talk to me like that, come tell me here, and it'll be on the books. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, by the way, I have a word with the Minister of National Education. He has been declared to the hilafa of Article 42 of the Constitution, and what's wrong with him? Mr. Secretary, you know the words of Hodja Ağlana Ariziz, and the language: "Nation is the material body of a nation. Religion and language are the spirit of a nation. Throughout history, there has been neither a heathen nation nor a mute nation. Mr. Minister, in his famous decree dated 13 May 1277, Karamanoglu Bey, who said that language union should be provided as the first condition of living as a nation, "The entry from now is to speak no other language than Turkish language in capuda and civil and medial and navigation." he says. About seven hundred and forty years later, in a Karamanian Minister national education system, "Do education in other major languages other than Turkish." he says. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Too bad, too bad, too bad, too bad! You have hurt our faith Minister, Karamanoglu Mehmet Bey. Mr. Secretary, you've never had a statement of support for the PKK's opening. Did you guys open up, and you're opening up, and you're a BOP guy, too? Dear lawmakers, the forces that want to take a nation down from the history scene target the language of that nation first. Betrayed nations lose their language, identity, and then integrity. When the lifeblood of nations is destroyed, it becomes impossible for generations to transfer values that are indispensable to the continuation of the nation; after a generation of cultural communication, the national identity cannot be transmitted to new generations; then all symbols of the integrity and culture of that nation will be erased from history, because the basic element of a nation's existence is its culture and its voice. I express my faith that you will correct your statements, and I pray that the University of Necmettin Erbakan will bring blessings on our Konya.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0664par0733	Thank you. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0665par0737	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit05spe0664par0738	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request, and I'll grant it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Hasan Ören, Mr. Kesimoğlu, Mr. Illum, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Turman, Mr. Akar, Mr. Özgundüz, Mr. Öğün. I'll give you a minute, Mr. Lawmakers. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0664par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 199. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0666par0004	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0664par0005	One moment, Mr. Tanal, let's open.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0667par0006	Mahmoud, sit down!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0664par0007	There are three motions on the 21st article, which I will have read according to the order of the arrival and process according to their contradictions. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0668par0009	My dear President, I wanted to speak to you about the procedure. Here's the thing about the procedure: this bill came with your signature. You're the chair of the Court here. Under Article 94 of the Constitution, Article 6 of the Constitution, the Deputy Speaker and Parliament Speaker must be objective and objective. It's clearly your signature on this, and you can't serve there as Deputy Speaker in a law proposal with your signature on it. Another vice president would have to do the job for you. It also violates the principle of formal objectiveness. If you want resources, I'll give you resources. I'm sorry, but the House officials are with you, but I'll give them to you to help. There's a Supreme Court ruling, and I'll introduce it to you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0669par0012	We've come to Article 20, have you just come to think of it?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0668par0013	Sir, in Article 21 I'm trying to teach you what you don't know. Mr. Vice President has his signature on this, and the others don't.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0670par0014	Mr. Tanal, the President and the Vice President of the Grand National Assembly can offer a bill, and so far, in the practices...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0668par0015	They can, there's no obstacle. I agree, but he can't serve there.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0670par0016	They can also manage, no obstacles, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0668par0017	No, but look, the Supreme Court has a verdict, so I'll give it to you. I'm sorry, if you'll excuse me, I'll give it to you, read it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0670par0018	Let's make a photocopy and send it over, sir. Let's check it out. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of Justice and Education's Law and Rize MP Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı; Justice and Development Party MP Ahmet Aydın and Şamoramash MP Mahir Ünal; Vice President of the Constitution and Vice President of the Council of Justice and Education; Minister of Justice and 2 MPs of the Constitution; Minister of State of State of State of State and the Constitution; Minister of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of the Council of State of State of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State and the Constitution; The declarations of Kayseri Abdullah Gül University of Kayseri University have been changed in the form of the University of Kayseri. Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same, so I'm going to read them and I'm going to process them together. I'll make a separate promise to the people in charge of the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Şemammarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of Justice and Development Party Group Chairs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Berçkaplı; Minister of Justice and Development Party Ahmet Aydın and Şeymaraş MP Ahmet Aydın and Şemir İnal; Minister of Justice and Education Act for Some Laws and Rize MP Hayati Yaşin Yaserı, 2 MPs; Minister of Higher Education Organizations of Higher Institutions Agency Act; Minister of Justice and Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of State of the Council of Justice and Development; Ministership of the Council of Justice and Development; Ministers of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of the Council of Justice and Development; Ministers of the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council; Minister of State of Justice and the Council of the Council of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council; We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0671par0030	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0672par0031	President, I'm sorry, can you make up your mind about my request?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0670par0032	Ramazan Kerim Özkan, MP of Burdur, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0673par0034	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. With our motion, I think we're against giving political names to universities to create new debates, but I also know that you won't accept the motion. My dear friends, it's been nine months since the June elections. I've been a congressman for ten years. During this period, no one of our citizens has received any demand for 4+4+4, about eight years of uninterrupted basic education. The demands for national education: there have been demands from us for teachers, there have been demands for repair of schools, there have been problems with teachers of 4/B), there have been problems with non-assigned teachers, but whether education is cut down or uninterrupted? What demand has come to you? Turkey's agenda...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0674par0037	He came to us.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0673par0038	No, dear friends, I know that. When you leave, Turkey's agenda is now... laughing at us, citizen, because we're beating water in the air. Look, at this hour, I wish this community had discussed the Turkish farmer's diesel problem, this community would have discussed the problems of these feeders, debated the fertilizer, discussed the gasoline, debated the pensioners' problems. We've been occupying this coven all these days, but people don't give us their rights, we're getting orphaned.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0675par0040	No invasion, no invasion. We're in the council.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0673par0041	It's like an invasion, because these orphan citizens are paying for this energy. We're here to protect the poor, the poor, the strange guru. But the poor poor are not protected by the rights of the poor. We're at an impasse, my dear friends.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0676par0042	Don't suggest it, it gets longer when you make a motion. It won't last if the motion is less.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0673par0043	My dear friends, look, your apology is greater than your fault. What would happen if we talked to those commissions? What would happen if NGOs listened? Again, you have this law, you have this numerical majority. That's mostly nothing you can't do. But right now, we're dividing the education by three, splitting the country in two. Isn't it a shame about our teachers there? We'd be slaves to those teachers, our hands-kissing teachers -- a letter teacher for a thousand years. We'd make them crawl through the streets with pepper spray, gas, cop club. This happened in all the cities of Turkey. It's a shame, it's a sin for our teachers. We want to kiss the hands of those teachers on Teacher's Day, and we're setting up a series of phrases around here, but unfortunately the streets of Ankara, the streets of Izmir, the streets of Adana, the streets of our great cities are filled with wet portraits of teachers. We're all supposed to be sad about this. My dear friends, we name names. Mr. Rahşan Ecevit certainly doesn't want his wife's name given to the University of Karaelmas. But if there is a new university formation in Zonguldak, Zonguldak wants to be named after his wife, both in central and boroughs, but Karaelmas University does not want to be renamed and named after the deceased Bulent Ecevit. His wife is alive today. Again, at Zonguldak, about 40 NGOs are delivering these demands. Mr. Prime Minister said: "We will value the words of the NGOs, we will do what they say." Here is a request, Zonguldak stood up and said, "Don't touch our University of Karaelmas." We wanted to add to the front of Mehmet Akif Ersoy University in Burdur. Mehmet Akif Ersoy University has been asked, "Where is MAKÜ?" We couldn't add a Burdur, but now we're trying to add a name. What a diet, what a sauerkraut!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0677par0045	You're right about Ecevit.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0673par0046	As for Ecevit, yes, then determine our rights here, my dear friends. He doesn't want to, so why do you want to give it to him?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0677par0047	I mean, you shouldn't give it to him at all.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0673par0048	In order not to give at all... the heroic conqueror of Cyprus looks good in that name, the conqueror of Cyprus, he is a leader who has protected our honor; why should he not look good? I mean, there's a saying in us, and it's going to get old like a yogurt sack. There's no need to talk like that.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0677par0050	It doesn't. I didn't say it, I said it shouldn't. I said it shouldn't.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0673par0051	So, my dear friends, I've told you before: a so-called, someone wants to put the teacher in the game, they're screwing the teacher's robe, but they're forcing him up, he's talking when the teacher's playing, he's saying, "Don't let the stakes touch the town, it's a shame on us." He says to us, shame on us for not discussing Turkey's true agenda at night, I pay all of you my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0678par0053	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0679par0054	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0678par0055	Mr. Tanal, let me proceed with the motion, and I will answer your case. I'm reading the reason for the Peace and Democracy Party's motion: When you're in charge of a head of state, your name is any institution, street, street, etc. It's not ethical to be given away. Besides, the university's name has already been declared unethical. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Congressmans, it is always possible for the vice presidents to present a proposal for the law regarding the charge of Mr. Tanal (Mr. Tanal). The Constitutional Court agrees. It is the text of the National Education Commission, which is currently discussed, and (2/358) has been considered the proposal of the main number-one AK PARTI group deputy. The vice presidents are unable to participate in the debates in the House. The implementations are also in accordance with Article 94 of the Constitution. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0680par0062	Mr. President, I'd like to request a formal debate on this matter according to Article 63. The reason is, yes, he can bid, loud and clear. I'll read you the Constitutional Court's verdict.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0678par0063	Mr. Tanal, take your seat, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0680par0064	Okay.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0678par0065	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0680par0068	Mr. President, Congressman, I'm going to say good morning to all of you at this hour. The Civil Code does not contain rules concerning the deputy president's neutrality. However, both the 1961 Constitution and the 1982 Constitution contain rules concerning the neutrality of the Vice President. There is a difference between the two Constitutions. The two Constitutions say that the political party or party group, which is a member of the vice president, cannot participate in activities within or outside parliament and in parliamentary debates. However, the 1961 Constitution does not forbid the Vice President to vote, while the 1982 Constitution predicts that the deputy chairman who conducts the session will not be able to vote, Constitution 94/6. Vice presidents cannot participate in parliamentary debates, except when it requires them to carry out their duties in order to maintain their neutrality. In spite of its full disclosure, it was brought before the Constitutional Court, which is more interesting to say is the Constitutional Court's rule only applies when the vice president is in charge of the session. What does that mean? There's a bill offered by you. In this proposal of the law, you are currently conducting the session as acting president. Objective, in terms of visible neutrality, in terms of universal principles of law, this is how it is. I'm also giving you the Supreme Court's file number. The original: 1970/32. Decision number: 1971/22. The Constitutional Court's ruling dated 23/02/1971, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0678par0070	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0680par0071	So from this point of view, in terms of procedure, you'd need another Deputy Speaker to do your job for you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0678par0072	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0680par0073	Otherwise...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0678par0074	Mr. Tanal, the final joke of Article 94 of the Constitution: (Turkey's Grand National Assembly President, Vice Presidents, members of the political party or party group, cannot participate in parliamentary debates, except in accordance with their duties; they cannot vote in accordance with the duties of the Parliament; they cannot vote in accordance with the president and the chairman who conducts the session.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0680par0075	That's not limited to the vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0678par0076	In the face of this sentence, how else do you interpret neutrality here, Mr. Tanal?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0680par0077	So it's a sign that you're sitting here, at least there. Look, you're making the offer yourself, you're running the hearing.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0678par0079	Thank you. Please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0680par0080	A vice president who can't vote, he shouldn't be in charge there. So you're a narrow comment, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0678par0081	We wouldn't be able to manage it, Mr. Tanal, if it were specified here that we can't manage. Thank you. [[Continue]] I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of Justice and Education's Law and Rize MP Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı; Justice and Development Party MP Ahmet Aydın and Şamoramash MP Mahir Ünal; Vice President of the Constitution and Vice President of the Council of Justice and Education; Vice Minister of Justice and 2 MPs of the Constitution; Minister of State of State of State of State; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of State of State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution; Minister of State of State of State of State of State of State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the State of State of State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of the Constitution and the Constitution; Minister of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution; Lütfü Türkkan (Alexeli) and his friends Article 21. - The title of Article No. 2809 and the first verse of Article 130 of the Law have been changed to the phrase "Kaseri Abdullah Gül University" in the form of "The University of Kayseri." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0681par0096	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0682par0097	Motive...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0678par0098	I'm having it read. It is considered unethical to give the names of the Living States elders to institutions and organizations. With this change, the university's current name "Kaseri Abdullah Gul University" is intended to be changed to "Kasseri University." I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on the 22nd article, which I will have read according to the order of arrival and process according to their contradictions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Justice and Development Party Group Chairs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramaraş MP Mahir Ünal; Basic Education Act and Some Legal Proposals for Amendments, Rize MP Editor and 2 MP for Higher Education Institutions Act; Justice and Development Party Vice President Mustafa Elikaserı, Mustafa Eliserı and Grand National Assembly of Turkey; Vice President of the Constitutional Court of Justice and Public Assembly of Turkey; Minister of Justice and Ministership of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Ministership of Justice and Security of the Council of Justice and Development; Ministership of the Council of State of State of Justice and Development; Ministers of State of State; Ministers of Justice and the Constitution and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Ministers of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council; Mes of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of Justice and the Constitution; The chapter 21, 53, 80, 102 and 103 of "The Higher Education Board, Universitys and Higher Technology Institutes" of the "Public Management and Control Act No. 5018 (II) dated 22-10/12/2003: Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same. I'll have these motions read and processed together. I'll make a separate promise to the motionmakers if they want me to. We propose and propose that Article 22 of the 199 bill be removed from the text of the law proposal. Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0683par0118	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0684par0119	Faik Öztrak will speak.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0678par0120	Faik Öztrak, Tekirdağ MP.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0685par0122	Mr. President, I respectfully salute the General Assembly as they begin my remarks, and immediately, I would like to share with you a question in my mind about this law: On February 7th, the Undersecretary of MIT Hakan Fidan has been called to the prosecutor's office to testify. A serious crisis has begun. During that crisis, on February 20th, this law came to Parliament. Is there a relationship between these two or not? Why was this law brought to Parliament's agenda right after a crisis like this on February 7th? That question is in my mind. Dear lawmakers, now, our latest report on Turkish national education is the World Bank report, and it appears to have the approval of the Ministry of National Education. Because this report was completed on June 30, which was allowed to be published on January 20th, and this report states that Turkish national education has two problems: quality and inequality. Now, with this law, can we solve the quality problem? No, we can't solve the quality problem because we're incorporating a whole new age group into the education system. According to the study of TEPAV, the cost is 5.5 billion. Again, mandatory high school costs 13 billion, teachers spending 2.1 billion, 24 people, and total cost 20.1 billion. Now, the cost of improving quality in elementary school is 6.9 billion, which is going down to 24-person classes. With the extra costs created by this law, it becomes impossible for us to improve quality in primary school. So, with this law, can we solve the issue of creating inequality in the Turkish national education system? No. Look, according to the International Economic Co-operation and Development Agency report, one of the main ways to solve inequality in a educational system is to postpone selection, academic placement as much as possible, and at first, the matter of preschool, the mandatory pre-school education issue, needs to be resolved. If you do so, it is possible to minimize the influence of the child's socioeconomic heritage from the youth's family. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, I'll tell you this: this law has come, and here you are voting for this law. Do you know what you're doing with these admissions votes? Because he couldn't warm his children in Adana, you put a dryer on the head of those children and prevent the young of Emine Akçay, who committed suicide, and the descendants of the prime ministers and ministers of this country from starting their lives equally. Dear lawmakers, again, in this article, we say that these names are removed from the universities, and the main object that we object to is that the people who are living today... now, there is Mr. Bulent Ecevit, Mr. Necmettin Erbakan. Of course, it's not ethical that they're being given the names of the Prime Minister and Mr. President, who are still in charge today and will be evaluated after they've finished their duties, and let me be clear: it's done in a law like this, in a law that will decide the future of our children, unfortunately, it gives us the impression that they're being taken and run away. But remember, my dear friends, today, the names of those who have done wrong in the world, the statues, the names of the dictators, the statues. I'm afraid these children, whose future we've dimmed, will download these names from the university plates as soon as possible. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0686par0130	Thank you, Mr. Oztrak. I'm reading the reason for the Peace and Democracy Party. In the national and international arena, the university is recognized by its name. And under that name, each university creates its own culture. The names of universities, unfortunately, are not determined by the opinion of scientists, students studying at that university, and the views of citizens living in the city of the university. As the center of university names, it is not right to determine or change the political and ideological maneuvers of political authorities. University names should be determined by university scientists, students studying, and citizens living in the city where the university is located to fit the fabric of the city. And when a statesman is in charge, his name is any institution, street, street, etc. It's not ethical to be given away. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 22 of the 199 Law Proposal be changed in the following way. The Council of Higher Education, Universitys and Higher Technology Institutes, section 21, 53, 80, 102, and 103 were changed in the following order of Table No. 5018, dated 22-10/12/2003 and added to the Law on Public Financial Management and Control (II). Oktay Vural (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0687par0148	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0686par0149	Enver Erdem on the motion, Elazig MP, please.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0688par0151	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 22 of the Law Against the First Amendment to Elementary Law and Some Laws. I salute your high council. Very valuable lawmakers, today we are negotiating an important issue concerning the future of our children, but unfortunately we are not discussing the quality of education, we are discussing tablet computers and the issues related to their purchase. Of course, national education is very important, but unfortunately, our ministers, so far, have come across four Ministers of Education of the EC PARTY, each one of whom has spoken about their own systems for national education, brought this, thought their own systems would be the answer to the problems of national education in Turkey, but they have found that their systems are not the answer to problems. Today we are discussing issues related to a similar arrangement, a new system in Turkey. This bill has its upsides, its flaws, its flaws. When we look at the positives, the fact that it has increased mandatory education to 12 years may not be enough, but it can be considered important. Again, it is important that a motion similar to a motion by the Nationalist Movement Party on Article 9 has been adopted. When we looked at the shortcomings of this bill, it was first discussed in science circles, and then it was supposed to come after it was discussed in universities, and it wasn't done. Once this application was launched as pilot practice again, it needed to be spread throughout Turkey, unfortunately, after the failures were seen and removed, because -- Mr. Minister, he just said -- he needs about 160,000 new classrooms, there is a financial need for about $35 billion. Even if all of this were to happen, there's no way this could happen right away next year. Thus, this is seen as one of the shortcomings of this offer. Dear lawmakers, the fact that pre-school education has not been evaluated in this mandatory education programme is also the most important flaw because we would have seen how important this pre-school education is, and it would have to be evaluated in mandatory education, given that 80 per cent of children's abilities and capabilities have been identified within the first six years of age. Although pre-school education is both cheaper and much more effective, I really resent the disregard for it. There's something wrong with this offer again. One of these mistakes is the subject of changing the names of universities -- how moral it is to give the names of people who are actually in charge of their duties and who are involved in politics to universities. You will not remain in this power forever. And after I left, I would have wished it had never been brought up once, so that there wouldn't be a wrong app like the removal of those names. Again, the exfiltration of the FATIH Project (FATIH) into the tender law is one of the key issues that will be transferred to your consciences again. We have seen similar arrangements not only in the FATIH Project, but also in urban transformation projects and so on. So, basically, we can say that, valuable lawmakers, in the next 15 to 20 years, you're creating a perception that you're thinking of getting out of Turkey's agenda by shaping all of this country's resources, all of its tenders, their addresses. Despite these circumstances, I wish this arrangement to be a blessing. I wish you all a good evening.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0689par0162	Thank you, Your Grace. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0690par0166	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0689par0167	I'll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tanrıkulu, Mr. Baydar, Mr. Öner, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Öğımım, Mr. Çayoğlu, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Aksınger, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Özgundüz, Mr. Akar. I'll give you a minute, Mr. Lawmakers. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 23 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of Justice and Education's Law and Rize MP Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı; Justice and Development Party MP Ahmet Aydın and Şamoramash MP Mahir Ünal; Vice President of the Constitution and Vice President of the Council of Justice and Education; Minister of Justice and 2 MPs of the Constitution; Minister of State of State of State of State and the Constitution; Minister of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of the Council of State of State of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution and the Constitution; Article 23-21/12/2011, based on the 2012 Central Management Budget Act No. 6260, dated 2/9/1983, and referred to the Council of Higher Education Institutions 78/1983, under the Legislature of the Law, 13/12/1983, and by the General Assembly and its Constitution (1990), as well as to the universities of Ercias, Zonguldak Karaelmas, Bilcik, Konya and Kayseri Abdullah Gül. Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same. We propose and propose that Article 23 of the 199 bill be removed from the text of the law proposal. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0691par0190	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0689par0191	Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0692par0194	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Democracys aren't just political parties; democracies have essential institutions. Civil society organizations, unions, trade organizations, universities, scientists speak in democracies, say their thoughts, but you didn't let them. TUSIAD spoke, and from time to time, you threatened TUSIAD, which was carrying water to your mill, and you showed it underhanded. The teachers talked, you threw gas bombs, you sprayed water. You didn't let people out of the cities. You beat up the students, and today you broke the foot of a student in ODTÜ. The MPs talked, tried to talk, or rather, you attacked, you beat. It's called fashism, and it's called fascist.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0693par0203	You're a fascist!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0692par0204	Speaking of fighting, I want to tell you one thing: My beloved Free Special friend is a decent, gentle friend with a calm personality. I'll tell you a story that we've been living in the Commission recently: I won't name his name -- I made the same mistake in the recent Commission, I won't name him -- a bearded MP named H.K.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0694par0205	Mr. Agha, please... please, Mr. Agha, speak in a clean language. Please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0695par0206	Show some fucking respect!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0692par0207	It's you!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0695par0208	You dirty bastard!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0692par0210	You're the dirty one! Come... come... Who are you attacking, you son of a bitch?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit06spe0696par0213	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger, lawmakers.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0696par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 199. The commission and the government are in place. Now, I'm going to make a promise to Mr. Group Vice Presidents in order. Mr. Slim, three minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0697par0008	Thank you, Mr. President, Congressman. My dear friends, I have been in this Parliament for ten years, but I have not seen such a MP in the 22nd century, nor in the 23rd term. For the first time, one of the three things that happened in this 24th-century Parliament is about Metiner, who's always in the front row, who's always talking, who's always talking, and what is it that you're going to defend, even though you're saying, "Mr. Kamer Young" happened in the past, where there's no Administrator, I've got it wrong, it was my duty, I've gone. I wonder what you're going to do today? What do you say to that? I mean, obviously, he got out of there... and his words started with Lan. We just looked at the records. From there he says, "Lan! He says shut the fuck up, and there's more. He's on the stand, attacking a congressman, a congressman on the stand. Now, look, first of all, Metiner will come and apologize here. Secondly, Civil Code 160/4 is very clear. Look, I'm reading the 4th article, the conditions that require the punishment of the indictment........ what is that? This calls for a reprimand. That, of course, depends on the approval of the General Assembly. You might say: "This is our friend. Even if we kill the CHP, we can't condemn our friend. I'll tell you from my conscience: If a CHP MP comes to this stand, I promise, let a CHP MP attack, I will vote for the approval of the General Assembly, and I will vote for condemnation. That's what my conscience requires. I don't look at the team, I don't look at the party, I don't look at the ambulance; I look at the Civil Charter, I look at the law, I look at what happens here. Now, look, my dear friends, you will soon remove our immunity. So you're giving us one chance, you know, and it's this: not to comply with the Civil Code of 165. If we are one, you are three. Your physical strength... it's always the same big ones that pile up right here. Look, if you keep this up, we'll go in with a gun to the General Assembly, we'll have no choice, no choice, no choice.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0698par0013	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0699par0014	Please, Mr. Slim, please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0697par0015	Look, you're not giving me another chance. Every time... look, I'm not threatening anyone, I'm telling you a truth. It's spoken among my friends, it's spoken of. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Am I going to get beaten up at an age like this? What are we gonna do? You attack every time.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0699par0018	Mr. Slim, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0697par0019	I want Mehmet Metiner to be condemned here.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0700par0020	If only you'd said one word for your friend.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0699par0021	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0697par0022	Vote according to the voice of your conscience. Now we'll all see if you have a conscience.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0701par0024	It's you who should be condemned.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0699par0025	Mr. Slim, point taken. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0702par0027	I'm telling you, don't you understand the gravity of the situation.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0703par0028	If you don't come back with a gun from now on, you're not a man!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0699par0030	Congressmans, please... Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0704par0033	Dear friends, I don't know if you're aware of the business. The quality of a political man, a statesman, a mature man, is that he can predict a step ahead. If we don't see the tip of our noses, our forehead will always hit the wall. There's no point in trying. We live together, you can try, but we live here together, and I don't think you deserve it, and I don't think we deserve it. Dear friends, I condemn the attack on this bench, with courtesy, as the National Party of Action. If we can't protect this place, we can't protect anything, that's one.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0705par0036	Brother, don't answer everything, just shut up!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0704par0037	Second: Dear friends, valued deputies; look, Mr. Metiner... there's a malfunction in Metiner. I mean, guys, your own group vice president can't afford it. I mean, it's not an insult, it's an insult. Listen, Mr. Metiner. Please don't say anything, he says shut up, but he's doing it. Now I'm not accusing Metiner, I'm doing it to blame him. If you make this call at 2:30 a.m., 3:30 a.m., believe me, even the calmest of us can get into uncontrollable behavior. The nature of the job is wrong. I mean, we've been working ten hours for two days, three days. If we're doing our other jobs, we work 15, 16 hours a day. Physics doesn't allow it. Please, let's continue this tomorrow after Friday, so no one hurts anyone, and we don't have to say things like that. What happens, dear friends? (x) The correction of these expressions is found on page 22 of the 86 ▪ Compositing Journal, dated 30/3/2012. Dear friends, I'd like to call your attention to a sign...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0706par0041	Tell me about the person who insulted the bench.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0704par0042	Let us reproach them, brother, and condemn them.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0706par0043	Blame them, of course.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0704par0044	Let's condemn them too, but if you can't protect this bench, he can't protect this bench, he's always out of here... and I'll tell you a story, and the owner here, he'll be embarrassed. So, don't talk, don't make us talk. That's why I'm telling you, the nature of the job is wrong. Whoever forced these MPs to work here at this time of night is wrong and will be responsible for what happened. There are no wise men among you... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Not at all, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Speaker, he doesn't want us to continue this tomorrow. Dear friends, we're doing it wrong, we're doing it wrong. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0707par0051	Thank you very much. Mr. Canicli, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0708par0054	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. First of all, I see that similar events upset us all, and of course it upsets us. At the beginning of my speech, let me say that no matter where it comes from, no matter who it is, there is no way to accept a verb like walking to the stand. I mean, to the stand...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0709par0056	It's not walking... it's not walking...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0708par0057	Anyway, look, we share something, our opinion, our opinion. I mean, we're telling you clearly.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0710par0059	Please be patient...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0708par0060	No matter where it comes from, no matter who it is, we say it clearly: this bench must be kept open, this is the stand of the nation. The attack, the invasion, whatever it is, it doesn't matter. So, as a result, this place is inoperable, the lawmakers, the oratories are unspeakable... whoever it is, of course, we'll condemn it, so it can't be considered otherwise. Well, we are. Dear friends, while we're doing this -- just now, Mr. Shandır has expressed -- if there are friends here who are attacking, insulting -- we need to condemn them, too.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0711par0062	Let's condemn...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0708par0063	Together we must condemn them. I mean, I'm here now with an accounting, a comparison, and he did it, and I don't want to go into a loop like that, and I don't want to do that, but I need to see the full picture of the whole thing. I mean, we're condemning a friend who's walking to the stand, who wants to walk or whatever, but we're also here to actually...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0712par0064	He's got immunity from the bench. That's something else.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0708par0065	We say it, we say it, we say it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0712par0066	It's something else.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0708par0067	We broke him up, told him, told him what we thought.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0712par0068	He'll apologize. Something else... But we must not prevent us from seeing the wrongs that have been done here, and we must also tell them. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Let your friend correct that mistake from there.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0713par0072	That's what I'm saying. We broke him up, we told him, we told him. I mean, look, really...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0712par0073	There will be a reprimand...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0713par0074	I'm saying that, I just said it, but we have to say that a bearded MP, I thought that beard was Rahmani, it's evil. So we have to condemn it, and we have to criticize it.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0714par0075	He'll stand on the stand and criticize.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0713par0076	That's what I'm trying to say, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0714par0077	Let the bearded friend criticize.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0713par0078	So, all of you, all of us, all of us, all of our actions, all of our conversations, critically, critically, all right, but no insults. I mean, this coven shouldn't be nervous.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0715par0079	Do we have to work at this hour, Mayor?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0713par0080	Now, of course, Mr. Thin has just made a statement, and I think maybe it's under the influence of the environment, or I don't think that's what you're talking about, you know, gun millah or something like that, that's not supposed to happen in this House. I mean, sometimes there's unpleasantness, and it's happened in the past, and we wish it wasn't, unfortunately...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0715par0081	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, tell me, for God's sake, do we have to work at this hour?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0713par0082	But the solution of this is to come together, by calming it down, by trying to eliminate the state that creates that environment, and especially by trying to calm it down, especially for us, the members of the group, especially for the vice presidents, is the right way to do it, so it's the right way to do it, in the form of an opposite attitude or climbing, wherever it comes from, guns or something, so I think we need to get it out of the record, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0716par0083	It's 3:30, you're putting the coven back to work! Okay? Everyone's getting nervous.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0713par0084	We need to get this statement off the record because I know it wasn't meant to be, and I know it wasn't meant to be.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0717par0086	Thank you, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0713par0087	Hopefully, we'll continue our work in a calm manner. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0718par0090	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0719par0091	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0718par0092	Let me make a very brief statement. It won't come off the record. I know what I'm saying.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0719par0094	No, it doesn't come off the record; it's out of the question.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0718par0095	First of all, I don't carry a gun, so that's one. Second of all, I said something about self-defense. Wait a minute... if I tell you what's wrong... I spoke of self-defense. In constant psychology, AKP MPs say: "We are the majority, we beat them. "
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0720par0099	No, no!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0718par0100	Look, get out of this psychology. We don't make you beat ourselves up, we don't make you beat ourselves up, we do whatever it takes, but we don't get beat up. Get out of this psychology!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0721par0102	Mr. Tütin, please, no congressman is to be beaten here.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0718par0103	I want you out of here. I'll do whatever it takes.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0721par0105	Thank you. Yes, lawmakers, we, the Presidential Court, are condemning the sad incident we just had. Adıyaman MP Mehmet Metiner (Adıyaman MP) is a verb that requires the punishment for his behaviour. Therefore, Mr. Mehmet Metiner, MP of Adıyaman, I will offer to condemn Mr. Metiner, under Article 163 of the Civil Code, but if Mr. Metiner is here, he can defend himself. Mr. Metiner? No. Now, according to Article 163/4, I propose that Mr. Metiner be condemned: those who accept...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0722par0112	It didn't... it didn't really happen!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0721par0113	Those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0722par0115	Now, that's your justice! What justice! Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0721par0116	Mr. Slim... please.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0722par0117	What a conscience, what a Muslim, what a justice!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0721par0118	But, Mr. Agha, in light of what just happened, please, let's discuss the motion. Please... Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0723par0125	Dear friends, my age...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0724par0126	If he did, no one could get me to vote for that CHP guy, I'd get that CHP guy punished, I'd raise my finger!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0723par0129	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0725par0130	Mr. President, turn it off!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit07spe0726par0131	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0726par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 199. The commission and the government are in place. Now it's time for Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0727par0005	Mr. President, that's enough! Everyone's slacker, still... shame! Deputy group presidents, what the hell happened? What are you trying to do?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0728par0007	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0729par0008	Mr. Hamzacebi, please...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0727par0010	What are your intentions? Why don't we just kill each other?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0730par0011	I mean, where in the law does this work?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0731par0012	Are we prisoners here?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0732par0013	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0730par0014	Do these MPs have to work till morning, friends?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0733par0015	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0730par0016	Mr. President, these working conditions...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0734par0017	Sit down, I promise. Just a moment, Mr. Şandir...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0730par0019	It's not a question of words, bro! What a promise!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0735par0020	Mr. President, I've never been in this area in a fight, I've sat down. That's enough, we've lost our nerve! Mr. President... Intervene, group vice presidents, step in! It's a shame! You'll like it when people shoot each other!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0736par0022	Mr. Ören, this fight isn't about the Presidential Court!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0735par0023	Oh, come on! I'm not a person who shows up, I'm not a person who argues, but it's a shame, there's no anger left! You'll die if he leaves tomorrow! Why are you laughing, friend? Am I saying something wrong? What happened... would you be happy if people broke each other?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0736par0025	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0737par0028	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as we've all witnessed, there's a tense atmosphere. To continue meeting in such an atmosphere, let me conclude this law by morning. It means to act in a manner that will cause new tensions, which I do not recommend. You see, in every new session, there's a new tension that's somehow beginning because the previous environment, the previous session, is unresolved. Since the AKP Group did not stand behind the condemnation of the General Assembly due to an attack on the Hatibe who spoke on the stand, let's continue to meet in an environment of such illegality. I don't recommend it. Secondly, Mr. President, the 68th Amendment of the Civil Code says that you will interrupt the session in the event of noise and fighting, and that if there is a new noise and fighting environment when you open the session again, if there is an ongoing situation, you must shut down the session. You've had to close the hearing twice, Mr. President, in order to avoid any more tensions, fights, again, you'll have to close the hearing under Article 68. Please, as the Republican People's Party Group, we expect you to comply with the Civil Code and close the session. Look, we can work here until the morning, we're not snake deputies without working, you can make a bill, you can make an offer, we can express our views on all of this for 24 hours, 36 hours, but we have female deputies here. Look, let's look at the stenographers. Look, isn't that an inhuman painting? Over there, we have six stenographers right now...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0738par0032	Mr. Hamzacebi, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0737par0033	Five hundred and fifty, [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One moment, Mr. President, but...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0739par0036	Is that any way to break the promise of a Group Vice President?
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0740par0037	Mr. Hamzacebi, don't object immediately, I didn't cut it, it just stopped.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0741par0039	He was defending our rights, open up, President.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0740par0040	I didn't cut it with my finger... you object to everything. That's not gonna happen... here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0742par0041	Mr. President, see how nervous the nerves are.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0740par0042	I see...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0743par0043	Mr. President, let me finish my sentence. Look, of course you're getting nervous in this environment.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0740par0044	I'm not nervous, but you object immediately, you don't listen to anything. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0743par0046	Look, you're getting nervous, too. Mr. President, you spared me 30 seconds while I was on the stand. I have the right to speak on that stand...
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0740par0047	I followed the rules, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0743par0048	No, when I say 30 seconds, I was going to do my last greeting speech and land, and you even spared him, so I'm going to connect that to this tense environment, anyway. Let me finish this last sentence: the number has changed now, we have five female stenographer friends here, we have six female stenographer friends, we have one male stenographer friend, that's positive discrimination! Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0744par0051	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm shutting down the merger according to the last joke of the Civil Code 68.
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0745par0053	That's it... what would have happened if you'd done it in the first place!
tbmm-2012-03-29sit08spe0744par0054	According to the decision taken, it is Friday (March 30, 2012) at 14 p.m. to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
