tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 40th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A delegation of members of the Regional Defence and Internal Affairs Commissions, consisting of the Regional Defence and Interior Commissions, was accepted as part of a formal visit to Croatia on December 12,-15 2012, in the joint session of the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH). The names of the political party groups, dated 28/3/1990 and announced by the General Assembly to form a delegation under Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 3620, are submitted to the information of the General Assembly. Celal Dinçer Muzaffer Aslan Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu İstanbul MP Kırşehir MP Niğde MP It has been presented to your knowledge. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2013 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2011 Central Management Computation Bill. Under the schedule, we'll have two rounds of interviews today. On the 7th tour, the Ministry of Health, Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate, Development Ministry, Turkey's Statistical Agency, GAP Regional Development Administration Administration Chairman, the Council's Office's Regional Development Administration Budgets and Computations, Turkey's Medicine and Medical Jihaz Foundation, Turkey's Public Hospital institution, Turkey's Public Health Institution, Turkey's Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration Office, East Black Sea Project Regional Development Management Management Administration Office budgets and State Planning Agency's Office. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency Central Management Budget for 2013 T) TÜRKEY KAMU BUILDING OF HOSTELS 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Institution Central Management Budget for 2013 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Budget for 2013 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Development Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Undersecretary of the State Planning Agency (x) 361 and 362 S. The Numbered Basmazes and Funding Citvets are added to the 36th Consolidation Charter, dated 10/12/2013. 1) Turkey Statistical Agency Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey Statistical Institution 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2013 Central Management Budget I) CONNECTION PROJECTION PROJECT CENTER OF CONNECTION 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman of the 2013 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget 2013 Commission? Here. Government? Here. Members of parliament, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour can enter the system, they have already entered the system. In the 7th round, I read the names of the members who were spoken for by their groups and individuals: On behalf of the groups: Mersin MP Ali Öz, MP of Samsun MP Mr. Cemalettin Simsek, Antalya MP Mr. Mehmet Günal, Hatay MP Mr. Şajrik Küçük; Mersin MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group Mr. Aytuğ Atıç, Manisa MP Mr. Free Private, Antalya MP Mr. Arif Bulut, Tekirdağ MP Mr. Candan Yüer, İzmir MP Mr. Rahmi Küçelilılılı, Adana MP Mr. Şıçım Özsüşıpışpışım Bay Mehmet Volcan Canalioğlu; Diyarbakır MP on behalf of Justice and Development Party Party Party Party Party Party members of İstanbul MP Mehmet Süleyman Canza MP Mehmet Canser, Mr. Şeker Beyçıçım Özçıçıçıçı, Şıçıçı MP Şafıçı MP Şaçı MP Şafımımı MP Şımımımımı MP Şar, Şafımımımı MP Şafımımımımımımımımımımımı MP Şarımımımımımımımı MP Şarımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımı. Subjects: Mr. Ahmet Salih Dal -- they will speak from the government in Poland -- Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the first word is Mr. Ali Öz Τünün MP of Mersin. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is thirteen minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0002par0067	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Health in 2013. I hereby salute the High Council, the citizens and all health workers who are watching us on their screens. The World Health Organization says the health budget in developing countries must be at 10 per cent. Today, in view of our country's budget-separated health share, we are seen to be behind even many African and Asian countries as a problem that needs to be resolved in its own right. Therefore, studies must be made so that the total budget of the Ministry of Health and its subsidiaries can quickly reach the level of 10 per cent. In 2003, in order to change the structure of the health system in Turkey, the 58th government changed the structure of the healthcare system with a program called the Change in Health. First, the transfer of public institutions and institutions hospitals to the Ministry of Health began to transform health, and the second step was adopted as a health-designed employment model. There have been differences in the financial rights of employees that could be described as a cliff, given the performance-based return capital fee. The final step towards the completion of the transformation of health in 2003 was by decree of the Health Ministry law which changed the organization's structure. With this decree, the ministry's organization structure has been modified, institutions and organisations have been created, but unfortunately it has been transformed by the government into a health-party structure, which is the first process of privatisation of public hospital units and hospitals, and has been subsidized by public health insurance and participation practices. Healthy satisfaction has also been ignored, and employees' expectations have not been answered. In health, however, the first rule of success, regardless of the name of the system, is the satisfaction of health workers and their support for the program. Today, eight different employment models are being implemented in the Health Ministry's health care institutions and institutions: A government official employed under Article 4/A of Law 657, under Article 4/B, under contract employees, executives and employees who are subject to Article 209, under the Fifth Amendment, health staff under Law 4924, deputy midwife and nurses, 4/C Levelers, contracted staff who are under contract at the family clinic. In the year 2002, the number of contracted personnel zeroed out was over 100,000 in 2011, while the contractual staff of all institutions ended with a decree issued in June 2011, while the Ministry of Health continued its contractual employment, while in the year and a half we have arrived, over 20,000 new contracted staff have been taken again. The Ministry of Health is not satisfied with that, but has made all executives and employees in the Union with public hospital troops contracting. Members of parliament, general health insurance has been brought by the government with promises that all citizens will receive social security, health care will be easy, accessible, and free of charge, and private insurance has been encouraged by a narrow package of collateral, accession, some treatments, and has been excluded. Today, if there are 10 per cent to 20 per cent drug turnouts in health, 5 euros or 12 euros in medical turnouts, 3 euros in prescription fees, 3 euros in prescription fees, more than 3 euros per prescription medications, and 1 euro per box, as well as up to 90 per cent when you go to a private hospital, the collection of the differences reached 90 per cent, the student difference fees, and the payment of the difference in early examinations caused the citizens to have a severe economic stalemate in health. Turkey received 294 million examinations last year, while this number totalled 492 million this year. The examination received from the patients included participation and prescription money in the state's vault at $3.5 billion. Turkey's medical expenses have increased 11 times over 11 years, from 4 billion to 576 million, to 45 billion euros. Dear friends, for the sake of facilitating the presentation of health care in Turkey, the chain of transport has been removed and the ease provided in the service presentation has also caused hospitals to turn into standing treatment centres, and the health clinics have fallen into a dysfunctional position. When he had a headache, he began applying to hospitals because he thought he would get better care than a clinic, in which case there was no room for serious people in hospitals, and as a result of performance systems and difficulties, physicians became easy patients. The rapid increase in the number of surgeries in recent years and the increase in the number of examinations in hospitals have been one of the main reasons for increased health expenditures in Turkey. However, if a protective and preventive health policy had been made a priority instead of an axed health policy, today would have prevented a citizen from becoming ill rather than treating a citizen. A key factor in increasing health expenditures in Turkey is the pharmaceutical industry. Especially after the closure of the Social Insurance Institution Pharmaceutical Factory and the abandonment of collective purchases, the sector has been left entirely under the control of pharmaceutical companies. While the government's production and bargaining power has been eliminated, there has been a significant increase in drug spending. Public drug spending, which was $5 billion in 2003, amounted to 14.7 billion in 2012. Drug use has also been widespread in our country, while 769 million cans of drugs were used in 2003, while in 2010 the number reached 1 billion 570 million boxes. A 2006 study found that Turkey was a waste of $500m a year of pharmaceuticals. For another important reason, unfortunately, it's abuse due to lack of control. In particular, the limitations of examinations and tests that will challenge the human mind and the way treatments are reflected in the bills demonstrates recklessness in the face of impotence. Dear friends, quality in health care presentations. This is possible with the restoration of medical schools' education and patient-medical relationship. The system has removed examinations for faculty at medical schools and will only teach them, especially if it eliminates the theoretical and practical training side by side in health, which will create new physicians whose practical notions are incomplete. Turkey will surely suffer for this in the years ahead. One of the most important injustices in health is the return capital system based on performance. Today, all physicians are disturbed and complaining about this current rotating capital system. The return capital system, based on performance by the Ministry of Health, is disturbing the peace among employees. Between physicians and non-medicine healthcare workers, there have been gaps between their rotating capitals. At the same time, there are serious differences and a lack of income between the rotating capital that a physician has taken in working in the town centre or in the town centre, where we find it difficult to send a physician. Health workers today suffer a major loss in retirement because return funds are not reflected in retirement. According to studies, specialists lose 75 per cent of their pensions, 65 per cent of the practice physicians, and 55 per cent of the nurses. In full-time legislation, a partial arrangement was made to pay the doctor's return capital in advance and reflect retirement, but this arrangement was not enough. This arrangement is essential to the full income of return capital and to all health workers. The lack of doctors and nurses in our country cannot be closed by bringing in foreign doctors and nurses. With this arrangement, particularly for cheap labor for the private sector, doctors who work for $200 a month in their country and whose quality of health care is controversial will come to our country. This arrangement will harm the employment of health workers in the future, causing the fees to be reduced. One of the new applications is voluntary health care and health care. We've seen this before as honorary traffic inspectors at the Home Office, and we all know the consequences. This practice should also be abandoned and not given control duties. One of the new applications brought in is to provide legal support during the health care presentation or in relation to the crimes committed against staff due to these tasks. Here, in health, we must certainly address the recent increase in violence. While steps are needed to be taken to prevent violence, I'm afraid it is a skill to give legal support to workers as a result of violence. This is not the right approach. The fight must be fought for the removal of violence and the immediate prevention of violent factors. As a doctor with a degree in 1991, I don't remember there were cases in my career that led to the death of physicians as victims of violence until the time of your power. If our minister remembers this on the record, I specifically urge him to share it with us and with the public. In this period, especially one professor of chest disease in Istanbul, another doctor in Giresun, a friend of ours at Gaziantep, and finally a complaint against Ersin Arslan in Gaziantep, and finally, I will not be able to pass on his life by committing suicide, until he is thirty years old, and our dear colleague, Mr. Melike Erdem, who ended his life in the prime of his life, remembers him before your presence. Violence has become a major health problem. In particular, I believe that a well-intentioned institution, perhaps a well-intentioned institution, in order to inform the health workers of the politicians who fueled this violence on health workers, should be reconsidered. I would like to review the statistical proportions of the complaints filed by the minister during the health ministry budget, which are particularly incompatible with the reality of these rates. Of course, we all know that in hospitals, the ease of access, the overload, the excessive intensity, the constant workload of physicians, the health workers, are suffering from severe fatigue syndrome. One day you will be confronted with these truths by your practices that do not care about those who serve you in health, who do not improve their social, economic, and essence. We'd like to make our reminders. Of course, it is only natural to expect a single authority to make improvements within ten years. Your success in the world with changing world conditions and technological developments does not prevent us from criticizing your wrong and biased attitudes. With these thoughts, I wish you all the best of the 2013 budget to our great nation and health workers.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0003par0088	Thank you, Mr. Oz. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the Samsun MP, Mr. Jamalettin Lightning. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0004par0092	Mr. President, I would like to present to you the opinion of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Health. I salute the General Assembly on this occasion. Dear lawmakers, I don't think it makes much sense to say that a society should first be healthy, that health is a basic right and to repeat it here. We will now, in accordance with some criteria here, try to expose Turkey's point of origin in the field of health in light of new scientific data. We will have suggestions, but I know that when the Minister was responding on behalf of the government, in 2002, health was like this, and we did this. He will defend himself using expressions like this. He will try to save the situation from today's shortcomings and try to cover up the mistakes, and he will not listen to our suggestions. We listen to what's going on today, we think about it, and we're trying to figure out what it means. The view we see is that there is a situation in which workers of health and physicians in particular, with a superhuman approach, with laws and regulations that have been constantly changed, confuse them and affect their motivation and performance. Today, health care is offered with an understanding that presupposes the public's satisfaction, even if it is a poor health practice, rather than how we provide quality services in health. I'm claiming that this health system is not a sustainable system; it's not a wage policy on healthcare workers, it's not because it looks like a profitable investment firm to hospitals; it's not because of patient examination and surveillance. Now, as a policy in health, we will be told honestly that either there will be a greater share in domestic health or that our citizens should pay more in health care. Because compared with the OECD and EU countries that we imitate in everything, we see that there is more distance in health than there is in health. In this framework, when the OECD 2012 Report is examined, Turkey appears to be the last in many ways. According to the OECD report, there are at least 1.7 people in Turkey. Look, I want to express to you that our health care system is warped. In our country, which is last in terms of the number of physicians per person, patients per person are more ill per year than in EU countries, which means that more patients are being applied in a year. The annual patient consultation average is 6.3, while Turkey averages 7.3. Congressmans, I'd like to point out to you that in terms of this contradiction, you will now be at the top of a thousand people per capita, according to the average cost of the EU-27 countries, in terms of the number of doctors, nurses, sick beds, but you will be at the top of the list of patients' consultations, and you will be talking about a quality health care system, the height of benefits-improvement rates! facilitating accessibility to a physician and increasing the number of applications will never mean increasing the quality of health care available. As we have said before, you will look at the hospital, the physician, the medical staff, the patient who comes before you, and if you don't look at it, I will kick your ass. You will say, "I'll do it," and you'll say, "I'll do it with performance instructions, and I'll confuse the hospital staff and the doctor's head, and you'll say, "I'll do it in the name of the medical system." Dear lawmakers, with this, you may be able to fool the patients for a certain period of time and convince them that you're offering them good health care, but that's not the right way. You're trying to turn hospitals and hospital troops you've built into businesses that work according to the profit-harm account. Besides, you don't neglect to assign allies to the staff while you're at it. Is that the kind of example you want? How else would you explain this, considering that in Samsun, the principal, vice principal, branch manager, etcetera, all of those appointed to be union members and that some of them have no administrative experience? As part of the Public Hospitals Association Act, many have been appointed to what may be called the ball dumps, while some employees have lost their rights. It's impossible to imagine that the Minister of Health didn't know about any of this. Dear lawmakers, as we've been saying from the beginning, the peace of working in hospitals with this performance system has broken down, the physician, the hospital staff have fallen into one another, and inter-patient relations have failed, because some hospitals pay different return capital because of their help to classrooms, incomes, debts to other hospitals. According to other hospitals, physicians, if they get the same score as their fellow physicians there, if they perform the same performance, even if their scores and performances are higher than their friends at the other hospital, they get less income capital. The staff at the same hospital have no chance of getting the same score as their other friends, due to the difference in scores in different clinics. Because there's bad competition between physicians, physicians, hospital workers have lost their love and respect for each other, they're conflicted, because people who know the system, who don't work properly, can earn a lot of points and money. And the practical applications of that, unfortunately, are obvious. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, today there is violence on the staff of the hospital. Almost every day, media reports of violence against physicians and hospital workers are always present. A research commission has been established in Turkey's Grand National Assembly on this issue and is continuing its work. But if I may put it this way, it is clear that political will is involved in these attacks. In this case, I will remove the hands of the doctor from the patient's pocket. We believe that the Prime Minister and the hospital and the physicians, who have not accepted his patient in any way, are personally involved in making statements. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister and the minister, who have made similar statements from time to time, have not made protective statements against attacks, harassing hospital employees in their line of duty. The Health Information Communication Centre, established by the Ministry of Health, is the 184 complaint line that works as a sword for hospital employees, especially physicians. Unnecessary complaints are being taken into account, being played with the honor of health workers, under heavy threat. In particular, physicians today are unable to work on defense. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important issues in the health system is oral and dental care offered in our country. In our country, these services are being provided by 4,607 dentists at 129 oral and dental services, according to Health Ministry data. In 2011, there were 21 million,100,820 police services in the area, which were paid about $779m by the SGK. Now, dear lawmakers, we have friends here who are dentists. The total number of applications is 7-8 million people, given that a patient has been examined at least three times a year. Considering that Turkey's population is 73 million, how do about 65 million benefit from oral and dental services? Does the government, which claims to be a social state, take into account the whereabouts and dental care of our remaining people? Today, does he know that most of our citizens are, unfortunately, being treated under stairs, unsanitary and unsanitary, dental technicians, dentists, and people without a license? If he knows, why doesn't he do a study on it? The government, which boasts a person's application to police stations seven or eight times a year in general, will explain its application to oral and dental health only with what modern health care presentation of 1 tenth of the population per year? Surely, I think the SGK should also receive services from private examinations and oral and dental care centres under general health insurance. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as another matter, what I need to address here is private hospitals. Private hospitals were encouraged during what we might call the first period of government, and private hospitals were widely distributed in our country. Later, for some reason, policies were created, especially in a hostile approach to private hospitals, which would cut them off. Adeta is doing whatever it takes to shut it down today.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0005par0107	Now, I was one minute short of you, Mr. Ali Oz. I'll give it to you, complete it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0004par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Private hospitals cover 75 per cent of the health care presentation in Turkey and 25 per cent of the public. However, for four or five years, the costs paid by the SEC to private hospitals have been restricted, as never updated, and private hospitals have been victimised. Also, to put it this way, a patient's cost to the public is lower in private hospitals than in public hospitals. It also contributes to quality in health care. It is also a separate time when those who treat these hospitals as if they are hostile, refer their relatives to private hospitals. At this rate, most of the private hospitals are headed towards closure. There may be bad apples in there, but it's wrong to punish them all. Most of these people don't get paid, so they don't get a difference, or they get a very small difference. The situation of private hospitals must be reevaluated with a realistic approach. In addition to our proposals on this matter, I'd like to make an illegal domestic... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0006par0117	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr Mehmet Günal, MP of Antalya. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0007par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, I'm going to talk to you about the Ministry of Development and the TİK budget. First of all, we're having another budget meeting, discussion of the 11th budget of the Justice and Development Party governments. I'll start by telling you a quick fix or two. Dear friends, as a matter of fact, we keep warning you about certain things, and we say: Look, don't say these things; say these things; but don't populism. And in the Prime Minister's speech here, we're constantly coming through an internal accounting session, 2002-2011, 2012... We say budgets are accounting with the past year, but they say it so fast that you repeat exactly what you say every year without paying attention to the same thing. Now I'm going to give you a very small example of recklessness. You've all heard it here, but it's written in the transcripts... We've said several times whether the Prime Minister's economic advisors are having problems with the reports presented to him. Look, this is the Prime Minister's speech you heard the other day. This is exactly what the 24th page says, since I don't have time, I'll just read it: even when there were attempts to intervene against democracy, Turkey's economy did not suffer any tremors. I turn around after that, I read it on page 9 about the same thing. Yes, yes, I'm reading it now, and listen to me why I'm saying this now: the April 27th e-signation of the AK PARTI has remained a futile attempt by the government's upright position, and yet this e-signation has cost Turkey only $2 billion per year by interest.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0008par0126	Right.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0009par0127	Right.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0007par0128	Then you didn't listen to what you just said. There's nothing wrong with these attempts, there's no concussion. It means there's only a year's interest cost, it's just... Now, for what it's worth, my friends, to do politics is one thing, but when you say some data, I say to the Prime Minister's advisors, don't repeat the wrongs by making a fuss over these economic issues. Look, I'm talking about two sentences written 10 pages apart in a conversation here, and I didn't say that for... Now, we keep warning you, dear friends. Our problem is to create solutions -- what you've said, you've accepted our vision -- is that in 2023 there was a leading country in the region of the Republic of Turkey, and there was a superpower in 2053. That's why we sing, talk, write. I also told my friends on the commission that we had collected what we had written until we became members of parliament, where does the economy go? Now, then what we've written is enough to be a book again -- what we've done in this density. Now I say, look, dear friends, it's one thing to do politics in matters, but there's also the truth. We are there to evaluate all issues in the Plan Budget Commission, in technical terms, in political dimensions; we have expert friends, and we do our work with them. We're talking about the budget, and it's like there's some kind of numbers going on here, and the budget isn't important. We talked at the beginning, the Court doesn't have reports, the percentages -- we used to call the GSMH deflactor -- now we calculate by the deflater, we put in the increases, and it goes on after that. So, what happens when you do that? Sir, the budget didn't hold. What happened? So, as I've just read, Mr. Finance Minister's statement from last year is exactly the same as his statement this year in September. One of them says I'm five and a half billion short. Now I have eight and a half. Result: tax increase, SVR increase, VAT increase. Then there's a setback somewhere, so don't think of it as politics. So, what happens if we make a short budget, so if we don't predict our income correctly, if we don't meet the terms we say in our expenses, if the Minister of Finance is spending beyond the budgets given to them, does that mean anything to you that our minister is responsible for, that I am responsible for, that the Ministry of Development has done? Their priorities are our friends working, they come in, they meet, they consult with interested sector experts, and we assign them, but then they're drilled. So, what's going on? And that's when the income goes above injustice and the tax is unfair, dear friends, so to the small income... where does it go when we put EVT, VAT? He's riding on the back of a low-income citizen. It's a longer, more demanding job to get corporate tax, to see if April will come, and we'll collect it all, and we can't do it all, so naturally, the financiers are going to go straight to the stables. So what we're saying is that if these goals are unrealistic, our narrow-income citizens are suffering from this. Now, on the one hand, growth, development... we were just in a meeting with the Minister, and I had to come up front because I had a talk, and he said nice things. The wish's good, but we need to do it without getting politics involved, we need to figure out what we're missing, we all need to walk to the goal we were told from the beginning. We sing it well. Mr. Prime Minister, as I was saying, in my role model speech -- I told you one part of it -- it's as if the problem has been solved, the poverty in Turkey is over, the revenue distribution has improved... Dear friends, I'm simply going to show you a few things internationally. The Human Development Index is being broadcast. Now, we're looking at... you're saying everything here, and it's nice to draw a pink picture with three numbers, but there's also a bitter truth. It's an international index that's been prepared. So, what does this Human Development Index say? Turkey is in the 92nd place. Now, development means... that's why I just referred to the Minister -- there are social parts, there are education -- he said nice things. It's just the number of growth, which means nothing if it's based on imports. On the other hand, I'm looking, what does it have to be? We need to be competitive. Well, we're telling you, now, if you think a gram of moving is enough, we're in the 43rd place. Now, in 43 countries... when we were the 17th largest economy? Then why don't we get to the 10th place at the level of development... and we'll get enough of this and not make a hammock out of it. So let's say we're at: let's say we're at 40/a next year, we're at 30/a next year, we're going to have to be the leader country next year, we're going to have to be the leader country next year. So let's say that the opposition, the bride, what are we going to do here? Dear friends, look, here, the example is something else. Okay, we're saying that Turkey has a dynamic, the private sector is already doing something, whichever government comes in, will do even more if we don't cast too much shadow. We're gonna open them up, we're gonna back them up, we're gonna coordinate your organization, we're gonna coordinate it. We're telling you now, TİK, here, has announced the income and living conditions survey, has done it in 2011, we're just waiting for a new one, and it'll come when it's renewed. Now, 80 percent of the people can't refurbished their old furniture. 86 percent of them can't take a week's vacation away from home. I'm showing you a few important things, so there's a lot of them, and I've told you a few things that I've noticed. Now, 67% of them can't afford unexpected expenses. Now, we're going to sit down... dear friends, look, there are other things here, the distribution of revenues about the growth of the economy, and how they're shared by social groups. We grew up here, sir, about this much older. There's no way we're going to get out of this if we're fooling ourselves with a number based on imports or a number based on net exports based on which we didn't do it. Oh, of course we will -- like I said -- we have to accept the problems first, we can't pretend it's okay. We can't solve unemployment. Why can't we solve it? Because we don't accept the main reason behind it, we do it right. We can't solve it because we say it's true. So, if you don't agree that the problem here is that it's in the idea of growth based on imports that consume without producing, and the low currencies that support it are based on high interest, that supports import-based growth, or rather it's in a covered fixed-warning regime, then you can plan as much development as you want, you can prepare your special-accesssion commissions reports, make sure that the TİK sits as much as you want, alters our definition methods. So, if we don't accept that the main problem here is that the current deficit is the economic structure that consumes without producing what lies behind the foreign trade deficit, and that the reason for that is because of today's courtship regime, as the ministers have done... May God heal him -- by the way, may we say -- Mr. Zafer has had a little operation in the falls, and since he often says so, we wish him well.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0010par0136	We also wish Mr. Unakitan a cure.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0007par0137	Mr. Kemal Unakitan is going to have a kidney transplant operation in Antalya in our constituency, so let's wish them well. But, by the way, because it's what he says a lot, he keeps saying this about the Central Bank: "Sir, here, woo..." I say: "Mr. Minister, why are you complaining? You're the solver. I've told you so many times here. Then they say, "Why are you showing books?" I'm saying that the Kural regime is separate, the courtship policy is separate. The government is responsible for the Kur regime, where the Minister is in it. You change it, you put in a controlled wave of courtship policy, you figure out how much inflation there is. There's no point in blaming the minister who says, "Sir, there's trouble inside." I was surprised to see the news, and I wrote it in my column. Now, look, guys, you get angry when we say it. ▪ Wrongly manage, and make the people pay, he says. You can't see from a distance, do you know what newspaper this was in? In the morning paper. You get angry when I say it. In it, it says: "There is support, interest is not reduced, and the Central Bank does not reduce interest." So, now, it's a result of your lack of understanding of the problem and political developments within yourself. Oh, when we say it, it's not a warning. Oh, don't they have places they're partly right? Yeah, but they made a decision, too, so that we could reduce the demand to a certain extent in the government. A few days later, I look again, and here, the numbers are coming out about the budget, and he's not giving up again. He says in the same paper. You know, I'd understand if it was any other newspaper, so, look, there's the opposition. Now, what I'm trying to say here, friends, is that if we don't figure out the truth here and go through all of our shortcomings together, we have no chance of reaching the vision of being the leading country in 2023, which should be the target of the Turkish nation as a common goal. We need to speed up the work on the steering of the economy that I told you before, instead of arguing about the frenciers-gas people. I mean, I told my friends on the commission that we forget about the steering wheel when we're having a brake-gas debate. Back in my day, there were 411 Fiat tractors that were used in farming, and I said, "You can't drive without two laps." So, what happens if you give the bus to someone with a Class B driver's license? First, we need to fix these, if we have any loose ends, we need to fix these, so we can get there healthy. It's not just who's on the brake, who's on the gas, who's driving, we have citizens on that bus, who's on the passengers inside. That's why we have to watch this bus together. The other thing, now, about this...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0011par0146	What do we do if there's an engine collection?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0007par0147	Of course, we're not looking at your bike; we didn't get there, we don't have time. You keep making Mr. Prime Minister say something else because we paid off our debt to IMF. Well, dear friends, do you have a chance not to pay? Can a state say I'm not paying my debt? Who was the government in May 2005? Did you get six billion-something SDRs close to $10 billion? You got it. So, whose debt is left now? Our debt is long overdue. I've told you over and over again, when you leave, when we're the government, if you get it, whether it's the IMF or the World Bank, we have to pay it to the investor who buys bonds. We'll pay the government's debt. And when you had to, did you even buy it with one party government? You got it. It's natural, there's no point in doing politics on them. We need to focus on the solution. I mean, we have the same problem with unemployment, not in debt. We, the National Movement Party, have always been on the side of a constructive, guiding, compromised opposition. Dear friends, what is the solution? The solution, indeed, is, as the Prime Minister tells us, is not to start production, investment, export campaigns, but to start production, investment, exports; the solution is to support the economy that produces; the solution -- just as we met the minister at the common point -- will make Turkey a leader country, not only in social sectors, education, health, culture, culture -- to raise society's overall prosperity in all areas; a development move that will bring our citizens in sub-income groups to the minimum prosperity level -- not just economic growth; and will make Turkey a leader country in 2023%), making its superpower work together. Hopefully, we'll be able to achieve this goal that has cost society. And he's telling you to stay away from the eunuchs and focus on the solutions, and I wish you the best of the budget.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0012par0153	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Hatay MP Mr. Chiefk Ugly, please.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0013par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budgets of the presidents of GAP, DAP, KOP and DOKAP of the 2013 Central Management Budget Law. I salute your high council. Besides, it's blessed Friday, blessed Friday for all of us and our nation. Ladies and gentlemen, before that, I took a look at our Ministry of Development's GAP project and looked at the website of the GAP Presidency of Regional Development Administration to make sure we have the necessary criticism or appreciation for it. December 2010 -- so the minister should hear this -- there's no 2011. Now, I couldn't believe what kind of understanding that was. I mean, could it have been such a nonsensical approach? Why doesn't a government president -- a deputy in 2011 -- talk about it on the stand -- share his activities with the nation in 2011? Of course, we couldn't believe there was no activity. After that, we returned, and we looked at our esteemed minister's speech in the commission reports, wondering if there's an activity or if we missed it, and there's nothing. And then our minister handed out a pamphlet, and we wondered, what distance is there in this Southeast Anatolian Project, other than this, hopefully, this Southeast Anatolian Project, and what distance has been taken from the irrigation channels, and what was said last year, what we said was, from 200,000 to 300,000. I mean, what did the minister say? During the previous administrations, 200,000 were made and 100,000 added to it in the last decade. Again, it is the work of the 57th Government that has been added by the 57th Government in its tender work during the 57th Reich. So, there's nothing added by this government, 300,000 out of 301 grand, and there's nothing in the financial year's budget presentation. And then when I did a review of what our past lawmakers had said, it was really a coincidence -- my brother, before me, Mr. Süleyman Turan Ustlu, had a talk in 2007, and that speech stood here, and nothing was added to it. In fact, if the Civil Code is available, I should consider the speech I gave last year, bring it here, and then put it back in my seat again. There's no such thing as serious, so I hope the Minister will answer in a moment. So, now, we're looking at KOP, and I told you last year, nothing's changed this year either. There are 510,000 hectares of irrigable land in the Plains of Konah. Now, our Konian citizen thinks that one day when this project is over, the Plains of Iconium will be horny and full of water. The capacity of the KOP is now 10 per cent of even waterable land. This is the whole KOP. And there's no source in all the studies, either in KOP, or in others. And the KOP is talking about lack of water, so if this water is insufficient, what did you do with it? It's not a train project, it's not a railroad project, it's not a road project; it's a irrigation project. The minister is talking about it if I haven't read it wrong. Dear friends, there's also a project called DOCAP, and unfortunately there's nothing there; there's a project called DAP, and there's nothing there. The citizens covered by these regions certainly shouldn't go and hope that the regional lawmakers will present these projects to them, and therefore not think that their cities will become a paradise in three or five years. Besides, these areas have separate problems. I mean, especially the GAP region, the GAP region, Sanlıurfa, Mardin, Gaziantep, Kilis, Şırnak districts, border districts...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0014par0165	How did the Syrian issue affect the Gap?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0013par0166	He has problems with relations with Syria because of border states, and because of them, there are economic collapses, and there are also agricultural challenges. For one thing, these regions -- my science is also in Hatay -- are living in an agricultural form, which is the main foundation of cotton, so cotton is the engine of the agricultural economy in these areas. Now, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, this is actually his subject, but since our Minister of Development can't do these things at this point of development, at least he has to go to our Minister of Agriculture, our Finance, and ask for support for cotton and other products. Let's at least build it up like this, shall we? So in 56 counties, wheat support is not paid, these areas are heavy. Why? There's corruption. It's the government's job to find corruption, find corruption, it's the government's job to find corruption, but it's the government's duty to punish those who don't commit corruption, but it probably shouldn't fit the state's conscience or the public's conscience. In addition, Mr. Minister of Agriculture makes a joke in his presentation: In 2002, cotton production is about 1 million tons, 988,000 tons, some exports, and at the same time 4.5 billion dollars in agricultural-based textile industry exports based on cotton, but in today's history, 2012, that number is still 1 million tons, but our textile exports are 11.5 billion dollars. See, now, money comforts the farmer who went to the textile store. What kind of logic is that? Is that so unfair? Does he think we're stupid? So, if a million tons of cotton is left in a million tons, what does this textile guy get out of this export figure at $4.5 billion for $11.5 billion? Where does the raw material come from, where does cotton come from, where does the thread come from, where does the fabric come from? From China, he imports. So my farmer can't plant it, so he's planting a little bit because of necessity, because in our plain, the people of Amik Plains know, and they can't find a loan that doesn't plant cotton. The engine of the agricultural economy is cotton, it can't quit. The farmer's hurting, the factory guy's hurting, they're hurting, they're all hurting, but the textile guy's winning. We don't have the money to open a factory, we don't have the money to open a fabric factory, we don't have the money to open a fiber factory, we don't have the money to buy it and export it, we don't have that kind of structure. I mean, I guess if the Minister of Agriculture was the Secretary of State in charge of textiles, it would only be this useful. Now, dear friends, I can't say much about these projects because there's nothing there. However, even so, the high-profile speakers of the Justice and Development Party come to the stand after us, saying that they have received support from the region, that the people of the region believe in themselves, that the people of Southeast Anatolia especially believe in themselves, that they bring prosperity there, and that they do not believe in us because of it, and that the Nationalist Movement Party has a sign party there. Now, look, the National Movement Party has taken out MPs in the past, hopefully a political party that will embrace them tomorrow. Yesterday, the MPs of this region, Southeast Anatolia, the MPs of the region, held a crisis meeting with the Prime Minister. The main topic of this meeting was defence and immunity in the main language. I would like the Justice and Development Party to talk to the district lawmakers about the following: I would like the Southeast people to talk about how to overcome their good fortune, how to lead them to economic prosperity, how to share them. But, on the contrary, they bring up the issue at these points, as if, on purpose, with the lameness of not being able to do anything in those areas. The Justice and Development Party has a Diyarbakır MP who says education is the main language. Trust who? Mr. Bulent is counting on Arinc. Mr. Bulent Arinc said last year that education in the main language is right and will be given. We all watched this together. But the same Mr. Bkent Arinc, after a while, said, "What's going on? What's going on in CNN Turk?," he said: "There is a constitutional obstacle in front of education in the Kurdish language." It's not enough. Second: Do you believe that a Kurdish education could be a quality education if it were not a constitutional obstacle? ▪ Is it a language of civilization in Kurdish? We don't think about this kind of primary language education. Education in the native language is both a draw and a language of civilization in Turkish. Dear friends, we don't call the language of our Kurdish citizens the language of civilization. We're just, and we're just trying to establish the reasons why we don't have unity in the nation if we don't have unity in the language. The Nationalist Movement Party will go to that area one day and speak honestly to our people there. One of these days, the National Movement Party will have this power. Go to our people there and come... (x) We'll say, come... (xx) We will share their problems; we will read their songs together, but we will not deceive them. Like a young man, we will fight terrorism.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0015par0173	We don't accept education in the native language. You say, "We'll sing together..." What's the contradiction, Mr. Hatip?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0016par0174	Education is one thing, song is another...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0015par0175	Okay? Education is important in the native language.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0016par0176	I'll tell you the difference.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0015par0177	How are you going to sing without a native language education?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0017par0178	We will not compromise our ideas. We, for the unity of our nation, are not going to vote in any way. We'll do politics like teenagers. With these thoughts and feelings, I offer you all my respect and love. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit01spe0018par0182	Thank you, Mr. Ugly. I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0018par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 40th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill of 2013 and with the Central Management Act of 2011. Commission? Here. Government? Here. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin MP Aytug Atıcı is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0019par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the Health Ministry budget of 2013. And I salute all lawmakers who speak to the people always and only the truth. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, today I'm going to try to explain to you how the Minister of Health has misled you and the public in the budget presentation. Instead of budgeting, the Ministry of Health has made it clear how you put your health care and health care on the market, and has confessed to the crime as well. According to the minister, international sources show the Change in Health Program as a textbook. Who's pointing? World Bank. So the World Bank says: "Well done, you and the IMF have given you more than enough of the 40m euros we originally gave you for this project, and I declare it to the world." I'm ashamed of it, and you're proud of it. That's where we're different. The minister boasts of a scientific publication titled "From Regression to Leadership," which analyses health care. One of the three writers in this publication is an employee of the World Bank, the other two are employees of the Ministry of Health, the Minister, who plays by himself, and then the world talks about us. Don't you think it's a little rude? As a man of science in the past, it really doesn't suit you. You thought our people wouldn't know the truth? The minister's budget speech shows the baby's rate of death at 7.7 a.m. in the brochure. The World Health Organization reports 12 in a thousand, so it's not telling the truth again, Mr. Secretary. When it comes into your account, the World Health Organization uses the data, using the figures that its own employees make when it doesn't come into your account. Both infant mortality and infant mortality are dwindling, but other countries are reducing more than we are. Look, I'll tell you the countries that are better at mother death than we are, so let's keep our heads down a little bit: Bosnia and Herzegovina is better than us; Bulgaria, Greece, Kuwait are better than us; Poland, Qatar, Slovakia, United Arab Emirates, they've all ranked better in mother's death than we are. The public is pleased with what we do in the field of health, says the Minister of Health. It may be partly true, but 84 percent of the doctors, or those who offer it, say that I am not satisfied with my service, that I cannot serve the people well. Look, you get on a plane, you serve the passengers on the plane very well, you serve them well, the passengers are happy about it, but they don't know if there's a technical problem on the plane. When will this problem be understood? It'll be clear after the plane crash. The health workers tell you that there are serious health problems. We say, "Listen to them before they crash." But it's useless. You don't understand, we call you the first doctors who are unhappy. They work like slaves, they starve when they retire. We say, "You don't understand." They are oppressed under theperformance system, so they are unable to serve the people well. We say violence is increasing, but when a friend of ours was stabbed to death in Gaziantep, you say, "Haa! A doctor has become a complainant line, but when a doctor commits suicide because of SABM, you say, "Allah! I mean, how many doctors are gonna have to die before you believe us, Mr. Secretary? Each person in our country goes to more than eight doctors a year. You say, "Alhamdulillah," and you brag about it. I can only call you Bravo! I think it would be more appropriate for you, in fact, to say that you've made our people sick, not the Minister of Health, but the Minister of Sickness, because you've confessed that you've made our people sick. You run 126,000 subcontractors in the field of health. You've made history as the most subcontractor in the public, the most labor exploiter, and you can't be too proud of that. You've chartered four aircraft ambulances for emergency medical services, you brag about it every day. Oh, believe me, you have other things to brag about, but don't brag about it, and the public thinks emergency health care is going well. I'd like to address our citizen from here. When you have a heart attack and ask for an ambulance, there's no doctor in those black ambulances, so don't let anyone fool you. Mr. Secretary also boasts about inoculation rates. The height of vaccination rates is not the success of this government, but a work of poor health workers. But what did you do about the vaccine? You've put our country in a position that can't even produce vaccines. Thanks to you, measles, tuberculosis and malaria have resounded. You say there are zero cases in your speech, but that's not what the World Health Organization says. Open up, look at the World Health Organization's 2012 statistics, Mr. Secretary, and stop misleading our people. The Minister of Health boasts about family medicine and says that we now have special doctors for our family. No, Mr. Secretary, no. Our family doesn't have a doctor because you've also privatized the first step of protective health care. Doctors get paid head-on by you -- in nails. They go to the doctor eight times a year. You say, just three of these visits to the first step, the family doctor, and the other five to the hospitals. Where's the family medicine, where's the system that works well? But you need to appreciate one thing: you started a mental health control program, which I really care about. Because you have corrupted the mental health of both the public and the health workers. Because of you, violence and madness have increased throughout society. We've made general health insurance. You say, "You're deceiving the public again." You're getting extra money for a basic health care package. You're making fun of the citizen, and the money that comes out of the town's pocket is reduced. You're saying, "You're not telling the truth again." The only percentage of the money the citizen paid only went down, and the money that came out of his pocket went up. When citizens visit a doctor, they pay a lot of different fees, such as appointment allowance, contribution, prescription money, drug contributions. See, your Health Ministry Health Research Director says that in 2011, the total health costs were 70 billion, 45 billion out of the state budget. So you tweezed 25 billion out of the citizens' pockets and transferred them into the system. Mr. Secretary, you've turned health into a sabbatical. That's not enough, you've turned the Department of Health into a rag. Not by merit, but by orders from someone, you've made appointments, and you've brought the people the Ministry inspectors sentenced to disciplinary action. According to the Security General Directorate, during your rule, the areas where most corruption has been committed have a health centre at the head. This is no one's father's farm. I've given you 17 questions, Mr. Secretary, and you've answered one. You can't answer or you're lazy! Make up your mind.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0020par0030	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Manisa MP Free Special, please.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0021par0032	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. It's a huge institution like Medicine and Medical Devices in eight minutes, and it's hard to raise anything about medicine and pharmaceutical spending that directly concerns all of our health. But to sum it up in four words, the Medicine and Medical Device Foundation is a freak for its establishment, a curse for its employees, a disaster for pharmacists, apocalypse for its health and for its direction. I called the establishment a freak. I said it was because it was established at the time of the so-called reckoning of coups, using the authority to issue a decree on the law that the mighty Pashas had established for themselves. It's been debated for years, no one in the field has been convinced. However, the former government of the former Assembly was established during the summer holidays during the election campaigns. On the last night of its six-month mandate, in the morning, when Parliament had been working for a month and the Health Commission was in session. It's a curse on its employees because the Ministry of Health has swallowed the Office of Medical Devices, the Office of Medicine and Pharmaceuticals, and the HD of the years in one night. All his employees were deprived of all their earned rights, and they were all transferred to a pool. First you show them death, then you sign them to work where they don't want to, and then you consent to malaria. There were those who didn't agree to malaria and chose death within the institution. Years of labor, Pharmaceuticals, Ayse Okman, was a drug analyst, a man who loved his work, worked hard, believed in the truth. But he was driven far and wide, and he couldn't stand it, and he threw himself from the 10th floor. I cherish him from here, and, Mr. Secretary, I invite him to apologize on this stand once, at least, to all the health workers they've broken down, removed from his home, taken away from his children, especially the family of the late Ayşe Okman. Pharmaceuticals will be comfortable once the Health Minister is established. At least 3,000-3. We'll pay him 500 lira, and we'll give him the high wages they deserve, he said. There were those who believed him. You know what, the salary is $1,300, and they get $2,100 in return capital that doesn't go into retirement. They're branch managers, unit commanders who get $2.147. All appointments have been replaced, as if without severance, as if playing with checkers every day. The appointees are very suspicious, there are new allegations every day that their followers have been placed in certain places, and in the time of your rule, almost all local pharmaceutical companies said, "If Allah wills," they were devastated, sold to foreigners. Our most strategic industries have changed hands one by one. It began from the flagship called the chief of the Eczacım, which was called İbrahim Etem, Fako, Biofarma, Münir Şahin, which was sold to Deva last year, but last year in the budget presentation, you boasted that our pharmaceutical industry had gone forward. What did you say: our company, Munir Hawkafa, sells cancer medicine to the Americans. You know what, that company you boasted about last year was sold to the Americans, the Americans. Well, that's your approach to pharmaceuticals. The confidentiality of the license files of this institution... what I'll tell you here, it'll take 80 minutes. Fast licensed ephemeral forms, fast licensed children's pharmaceutical companies... only journalists and all that, there's no allies anymore, there's ally pharmaceutical companies. If I told you, wow, wow, wow!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0022par0038	Way to go! Way to go!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0021par0039	I said it was a disaster for a pharmacist. Pharmaceuticals have been crawling for decades. There were seven pharmaceutical schools when I graduated, and now there are 33. He'd give me 400 graduates, 1,600 this year, 2,000 graduates two years later. The number of pharmacists is about to rise from 24,000 to 35,000 in five years. Carry the discounts from the SSK over the pharmacists for a while. You said: 6 lira discount area pharmacist -- where it was seen, so let's not betray it -- put it on top of $4 and have to give it to you for $10. The price of medicine is going down. I declare from here -- who says, who says, let's talk -- it's not the AKP that lowers drug prices, it's the drug prices that have been dropping rapidly all over the world for the last ten years; we talk about their reasons. The aging drug is cheap, the patented drug is cheap, the equivalent drug is cheap, the high-tech drug is cheaper. You make it all look like you did it yourself... the whole world puts a reference price on drugs all over the world, and with the domino effect, the prices are dropping, but no country in the world is going to let the pharmaceuticals down, they're taking precautions, you're the only one who gets crushed. According to the results of the health minister's original data, which he has confirmed, one out of every 10 pharmacists earns less money than their colleagues, who are working in public and complaining about their rights. Pharmaceuticals will pay for the patient's medical bill. Besides, they're against collecting medical fees. You're not ashamed, you're not burdened, you're not ashamed to take a new contribution every day, and I'm not going to get tired of saying it here, I'm going to say it. [[From the CHP rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] Aunty, old aunts, old uncles... before you were in power, only pensioners paid 10, employees, 20, reporters, 0 turnouts, there's that again. Now they're paying a turnout, $5 at the state hospital, $12 at the university. They're paying for the prescription, $3. They pay for the equivalent drug difference for almost every drug they take, the cheapest and the different from their pockets. They pay $1 more per box after 3 pens. The private hospital paid the difference fee, went up 90 percent, created an argument when it was 15 years old. The study pays the difference because you don't pay for every study. Why did you come to be examined early, and come again ten days before? They pay you for it. They pay the primary exam fee, they can't wait three months, there's a suspicion of cancer, they pay the difference. They pay exceptional health care. If you don't give us the difference of money, we'll not use laparoscopic surgery, but we'll operate from here with technology from 30 years ago. You're the Minister of Health, and there are a lot of things that hurt people that you don't care about. I've told you ten kinds of turnouts on three channels. Unsubstantiated lists of medications between you and the SGK and the patient are crouching between pharmacies and doctors because of the conflict and friction between you. The new drug registration period has been reduced from six months to three months in the United States, and the European Union should not exceed seven months. People are waiting for a cure, they're waiting for a cure. There are license files you've been holding for 1,000 days. The drugs of rare diseases are orphaned because no one manufactures drugs that they don't make money on. You have no policy, no preparation. For those little children who die where the eye cannot see them are not of us, you say. You've finished the local pharmaceutical industry, and you've told patients who are in a hospital both nights but aren't accepted by relevant hospitals... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm trying to find a patient, paramedics, and I'm exposing this shame to you. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0023par0050	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Arif Bulut, MP of Antalya. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0024par0054	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the budget for the Health Department Public Hospitals Association in 2013. I salute you all. Mr. Health Minister, in your speech at the commission, you describe how successful you have increased the expected life expectancy in birth to seventy-five years, reduced the baby's rate of death to seven-seven-seven per thousand in a thousand, reduced the mother's mortality rate to 15.5 per hundred thousand, and compared to your many achievements, compared to OECD and World Health Organization data. That's partly true, I congratulate you. You see this as a success of the Change in Health Programme, and if it weren't for the health workers in Turkey to take the matter into their own hands, we wouldn't be able to make this transition. So you admit that this success is the success of physicians and assistant health workers; it's beautiful. And on behalf of my group, I sincerely thank all the health workers and the well-being professors who train and teach these employees and who are also a health worker themselves, and they deserve it very much. Now, in your words, let's come to the truth from rhetoric. All right, let's see what you've done for them. First, let's start with retirement. Mr. Secretary, retired physicians are being paid on the poverty line today. You know very well, we've said it many times. You stopped pensioners under sixty-five years of age knowing they couldn't find a staff in private hospitals, and you're still blocking them. You also sentenced the employees to work in public. The physicians are now working in public hospitals, not out of satisfaction, but out of necessity. People who work at university hospitals are in the same situation. You've made staff physicians one of the cost elements of the health market. Doctors working in performance anxiety have become blinded by their sense of responsibility for patients, ignoring difficult and risky patients. Under pressure, you've created a stressful, troubled type of physician. It turned out to be what economists call a moral danger. Thus, as sick as physicians, they began to suffer. The physicians have turned to easy and risk-free patients. As a result, physicians were unable to perform their professions, and violence erupted against health workers. On the other hand, you've created the perception that you're giving excellent health care, but the citizen who can't go to public hospitals and get excellent health care has turned to violence again. Mr. Secretary, you and the other members of the administration, especially the Prime Minister, have used a language that destroys the honor and dignity of physicians and discredits physicians. You've never corrected the health workers' rights, it's always been rhetorical. You've created a very serious staffing by distinguishing between physicians. The appointments you made to the Public Hospital Association -- which is more than 10,000 -- have either chosen members of a cult from members of AGEZİK-SEN, or you have selected the AKP from former MPs or candidates for MPs. Through knife money, through a C-section, through the objection, and through a lot of delicate health issues, you've misled the public and insulted the doctors. Thanks to you, hospitals have become service providers, patients become customers. On the other hand, the sale of health, which is a constitutional right, the non-transmittance of health, the abandonment of free market conditions, as much money as you have, the protection and protection of private health cartels, the increase of direct pocket payments, the poorening of health workers as part of lowering health funding, the increasing performance of health workers, the performance of non-private rights at every stage, the sanctions applied to pharmaceuticals, the drug reference price applications, the good health care services. The health of those living in the countryside is now in the hands of God. The public has completely withdrawn from the countryside. Dear friends, university hospitals have been unable to pay their debts due to the current price policy; the Ministry of Health has seized 13 university hospitals, including the Public Hospital Associations, destroying university autonomy under the name affiliation. As a result, the quality of service in public hospitals has been greatly reduced, and it is still a citizen who has suffered the most damage. I wish this budget to the best of our people, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0025par0064	Thank you. Tekirdağ MP Candan Yüceer, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0026par0067	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Health in 2013. I salute your grand delegation and our fellow citizens who are watching us on the screens. The first duty of state-run political organisations is to carry out the necessary measures, conditions, to keep society healthy, the nation. Take me to the Turkish physicians, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. I don't get needles from a doctor. Doctors paralyze a man. The term of the Doctor is over. The hands of doctors are in the pockets of the sick. And that was not enough, Mr. Secretary, for physicians who are trying to draw attention to the negativity of the Health Change Programme, who are expressing errors in the practice, contradictions, the doctors who are making noise, he said. Now, let's kill the hero, but let's not get ahead of ourselves. Is it just this government's Health Minister, the Prime Minister, or is he targeting physicians as the subject of health problems? No. Many ministers of the Kenan Universe have since been described as not so insulting, as a target, but so similar. Health workers who are targeted with statements they don't deserve are the own children of this country. These are the most successful students in education, graduated from the universities of this country, worked in public hospitals, and after a long, hard education, they are the most difficult, selfless professions. Here's one of them, me, you -- there's a lot of lawmakers -- there's our kids, there's our brothers. The current government, the government, the Minister of Health, the real responsible for problems in health care, the problems, the shortages, the responsibility, by avoiding responsibility, assigning themselves everything positive in this field, everything negative, to health workers. And that is the mentality, which, despite all the opposition, is that the wrong policies, which stubbornly defame the practice of medicine every day, devalue it, discredit it, target the physicians, and, unfortunately, lead to violence and murder. Dr. Göksel Kalaycı was 60 years old, Dr. Ali Menekşe was 51 years old, Dr. Ersin Arslan was only 30 years old. May God have mercy on them all, and may they rest in peace. You know what's really going on, what's the point of it all, dear lawmakers? In the eyes of our executives, our citizens have no value at all. Your value to your citizen, your value to your human being, that's the bottom line. In our country, no doctor, no teacher, no worker, no officer, no soldier, no police. Why do I say that? Because, you see, last week in the storm of 30 miles an hour in Istanbul, three of our citizens who were forced from their homes, without a life jacket, were sacrificed to the raging waters without any more support on the shore, our brother Gülshah received a death threat from his ex-boyfriend, he doesn't know how to get rid of it, he doesn't know what to do; he doesn't want transfer; he doesn't want protection; he can't get it; he's taking shelter from the state head, he's asking for help. Is the governor, the vice governor, the director of national education helping? No. The Viceroy gives advice, he deserves to die. There's no escape from death. There never was. You quit. Walk around with pepper spray. You'll die most of all. The problem is with our girls who are friends with such absurd people. He says, "You know, Gülşah has been killed." I ask you, in the prime of life, is it right to die at the age of 27? Is it always the poor, the poor, the poor, the woman's right? Is it always about us? Is it always fate for us? There are nine earthquakes in Japan, no one's nose is bleeding; in our country there are seven earthquakes, thousands of people are dying. In Chile, 33 miners were rescued exactly sixty-nine days after the explosion in Zonguldak. We could not even reach the dead bodies of 30 of our miners who died after the explosion in Zonguldak. I don't think it's fate for them. Fate always deserves us, always deserves us. Then, you go up to the stand, you tell your ten-year-old deeds, like everything's fixed, like everything's a rose. What in God's name did you fix? You're just stalling our people with false agendas. Let alone the Great Century look at Turkey in the 21st century. It's fiction, but what we're going through is real. There is no food without GMO, no healthy food. So many times we've said that the adolescent is spreading cancer, and here is his Dilova. One out of three people has cancer. How will people feed in our country where the hunger limit is $958, the poverty limit is $3.120, the minimum wage is $773? All citizens are in debt. You've never left anyone with mental health; we've used 38 million cases of antidepressants, over 100 percent of antidepressants. What will I feed my child, and what will I put on the school tomorrow? Can you expect the person who says, "Our people are healthy?" Yes, see, Dr. MeIike Erdem, the ER medical assistant who worked for health, jumped from the 6th floor of the hospital where she worked after giving the Ministry of Health her plea for a complaint to the SABIM line, ended her life. The defense that he holds in his hand belongs to SABIM. It tells us who the perpetrators are and the essence of the incident in the best way. I would like to express these facts in five short sentences: not fate, value; not competition; not the team; not the customer; the person; not the winner; the right to harm first; not the right to die, but the right to live. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0027par0085	Thank you. Mr. Rahmi, the MP of Izmir, is the Türeli of Love. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0028par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the budgets of the Ministry of Development and Turkey's Statistical Institution in 2013. As I begin my speech, I salute you and the citizens who are watching us on the screens. Dear lawmakers, of course, it's not easy to bring up the issues and problems that exist here in ten minutes, but we have to go to a certain priority for that. Of course, there's a lot to be said and a lot to discuss as far as the Ministry of Development is concerned, the mission, and what they're doing, but I'd like to focus on a few issues in particular. One of them is what the AKP's performance in basic economic sizes is in the vision that existed during the AKP period, the period 2003-2012 and the period after. Now, we have to consider: developments in the world, in the international plan and in the world economy are also very important to Turkey's economy. During the AKP, however, improvements in the world's economy and developments in the international plan have not been taken into account. The problems that Turkey's economy carried from previous times and brought to this day have continued during the AKP period, not diminished, and have become rather heavy. The 2003-2007 period was a time when world economies were very lively, the rate of economic growth was high, and international liquidity was very abundant. Based on this, there were also significant increases in growth. But when we look at it, of course, we have to do the analysis here: the growth rate or performance of the Turkish economy in certain areas is important, but I also think it's important to come to a conclusion by comparing it to similar countries. When you look at it this way, of course, the growth rate of the Turkish economy is above developed countries, but it's lower when compared to similar developing countries like us. It's normal to be higher than developed countries because they're mature economies, and the growth rate of mature economies will naturally be lower. 2008-09 was a period of slowdown in the global economy. This has also been reflected in the Turkish economy. But I would like to say that before the global crisis hit Turkey's economy, there have been serious weakenings in Turkey's economy and performances in other economic indicators. Turkey's economy was hit by a global crisis in the 3rd quarter of 2008, and after that, but from the beginning of 2008, the performance of Turkey's economy was seriously weakened. After the 2008-09 crisis, the 2010-2011 period was a period when Turkey's economy began to grow again, and the AKP was deeply proud of its performance in this area. But what we see is that this 2010-2011 performance was suddenly cut like a knife in 2012. In this, of course, the performances of economists, ministers in charge of the economy, their own dissonance, their own dissonances, their debates have had a huge impact, but other than that, the conjuncture in the international field, the failure to read the conditions well, and the fact that you can't determine the conditions well. And this argument has entered our economic literature through a metaphor for a car, as we all know, through the argument of fren-gas. Some ministers have been ministers, some ministers have been gas makers. You, Mr. Secretary, are you a brakeman or a gasser, and if you state that in your speech -- especially at the end of recent developments -- we'd appreciate it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0029par0099	He's a clutcher.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0030par0100	Clutch man, clutch man.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0028par0101	Now, of course, driving techniques are important, Mr. Secretary, so you'll know where to step on the gas, where to hit the brakes, you'll adjust the weather conditions, you'll have a mastery, you'll have a driver's license, you'll know very well. But what we see is that unfortunately there is no harmony between AKP ministers who are in charge of the economy. Everyone managed the area given to them in the economy by themselves, completely, and without compliant with the other ministers' mandates, resulting in serious problems.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0031par0102	Is the Minister out of gear?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0028par0103	Yeah, sure. What happens when the brake hits the gas at the same time? They're asking about our friends there, Mr. Secretary. These are important, too.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0032par0104	Ask, the minister is there, ask.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0033par0105	Clutch, clutch.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0028par0106	Clutch, of course... you know it's not the other way around.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0034par0107	Our car is automatic.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0028par0108	Now, the driver's driver's license is important, but the most important thing is, what's the condition of the car? Is there a maintenance for the car? Is the engine okay?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0035par0109	It's an engine collection. It's a collection.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0028par0110	It's an engine collection. The car's already been taken care of when you look at it. When you look at it, the tires of the car are leaking air, Mr. Secretary, the engine of the car is boiling water. So they're saying that the economy of Turkey...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0036par0112	Ours is working like clockwork.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0028par0113	It's working like clockwork, but we can't see it in 2012, Mr. Masterballer.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0037par0114	It works with brake gas, brake gas.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0028par0115	Now, of course, the car has problems, so Turkey's economy has structural problems, dear friends, and during the AKP period, they're not relaxed, but they're heavy. What are these structural problems? One is the domestic savings of Turkey. In order for an economy to grow healthy, it needs to form a growth structure based on national resources, but unfortunately it isn't, Turkey is developing with an increasingly current growth model based on external savings. Another structure, when you look together at the current account again in Turkey, is an increasingly dependent dependency on the import of intermediary goods and exports in Turkey. This average exceeds 70 per cent and has reached 80-85 per cent in some sectors. The point that came today as a result of false money and currency policies, you brag that the production and export structure in Turkey is completely dependent on exports, so we've exported $100, but if 80 lira is imports -- which I don't count as investment goods imports -- there's no bragging performance here. You're bragging about unemployment rates, the unemployment rate, you know, the lowest point in the OECD. Well, let's just say that in OECD countries, the average turnout rate is 70 percent. So 70 percent of the working population joins the labour force in OECD countries, while we have less than 50%.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0038par0117	45%.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0028par0118	So if we look at it in a sense, and we do an analysis, and it goes up to 70 percent, what's going to happen? The unemployment rate goes up four times higher than where it is now.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0039par0119	It was 45 percent when we bought it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0028par0120	On the other hand, the technology density of the manufacturing industry is extremely low. There's a manufacturing structure where all low-low and medium-low-tech sectors weigh and determine. To integrate with the world economy, yes, but not to integrate with the world economy over the low-value value, underprivileged, low-paying labor, through a structure that is common to unregistered. We're not the fason production center of the world's economies. What Turkey's economy needs to do is move to a high-profile production of goods and services, increasing the technology density of manufacturing industry in Turkey. Dear friends, industry is the engine industry. When you do this density in the industrial sector, when you do this density change, you're also reshaping the agricultural sector and many services sectors based on it. Now we're looking at 2013-2015, is there a perspective that will respond to the Central Future Program targets, all of this talk about gas-french debates, and solve Turkey's structural problems? I'm afraid not. The medium-term program, which was prepared last year, came from the growth rate of 8.5 per cent and was estimated for the OVP period at a rate of 4.5 per cent growth rate of 5.5 per cent. E, this year you say 3.2 percent is 2.6 in the first nine months. You have to give 3.2 per cent growth in the last quarter of the year, which is not possible. When you look at it from this angle, you come from 3 percent, 25%, and again you take the economy to 4, 5, 5 percent. Is that even possible? On top of that, you said 4 percent, it's going to be 3, 2 or 3, not a lot of deviations. Actually, there's a very serious deviation. As far as demands go, there's a lot of deviation in the economy. Private consumption and private fixed capital investments have almost collapsed. Growth is based entirely on net exports, and we know how in net exports the share of gold exports increases virtually the rate of growth. In the past few days, Mr. Ali Babacan has also explained: "Our energy from Iran is the equivalent of this gold export. There is no such gold export. Based on it, both the current operations deficit appears low and the growth rate appears to be larger than it is. What would we expect then: in 2013-2015, we expected the Central Time Program to be an ointment for Turkey's problems, right? But unfortunately, it doesn't exist. When we look at it, there's an assumption that conditions in the world economy will continue exactly the same. What will Turkey do in this? Will it change finance policy, change money policy? How will he apply a courtship policy? There is no serious identification of this. That makes us sad. In this perspective, you're saying that the vision of 2023 can't be in the Plan Budget, we've explained it in different ways. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With this perspective, Turkey is unable to see two years from now, let alone 2023, even 2013-2014. In this country, the people of this country suffer every mistake that exists; unemployment increases, poverty increases; agriculture is miserable, trades are miserable, workers, civil servants, pensioners are miserable. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0040par0131	Thank you, Mr. Türeli. Adana MP, Mr. Umit Özgükmi. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0041par0135	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the very high-value lawmakers, the Department of Development, the DAP, the Gap, the DOCAP and the COP budget. I salute you all. Minister, the last thing I'm going to say is that your ministry is falling apart. Now, I've studied today's GAP, DOCAP, and KOP. Members of parliament have just announced that it is unable to organize its website with its $225m budget. There's a $225 million budget, but look, for God's sake, the entry departments of these administrations, the GAP, the DOC and KOP, are very fancy, and they've done one more thing with this budget: they've done a good SWOT analysis that a high school boy with average intelligence could do, and they've done a good SWOT analysis in each study. Other than that, there's no action, nothing other than development. It's also controversial why these organizations are there because they have development agencies that are set up for the same purpose, in the same areas, for the same purpose. If you look at the purpose sentences, these administrations and development agencies have the same goal. But, uh, I gave a speech here the other day when I gave a research proposal. Development agencies are falling apart much worse than this. Development agencies have spent $1 billion and $700m since 2008. I've told you before in a speech, and I'm telling you, if a real performance review is done, so if you draw a double line under the work done so far, and put two criteria for this amount of spending money into the economy of Turkey and the job creation, it's close to zero. Now, on my way here, I saw hundreds of bureaucrats in the hallway with computers. They're going to give you a number right away, and they're going to say, "This is how much employment is created in the development agencies for these funds." That's not true; they're always misleading you because there's no right performance review in any of the development agencies. The fake numbers they're about to give you are their own statements about how much employment this loan will create in exchange for coming to development agencies and asking for a loan. The citizen is asking you for $100,000. You ask yourself: "Well, how much employment will you create if we give you this money? I will not create it at all. It says something because you will not pay for the lesson." And then your bureaucrats put their employment figures in front of you. Please don't come up with those numbers any later. These numbers aren't right because they don't exist, they don't have performance reviews. Now, I told you earlier that this was a waste of resources. There's idleness, there's irregularity, there's a waste of resources in development agencies. Take a look at the travel costs at the development agencies. Look, there's irregularities. Now, I'm reading Article 18 of the Development Agency Act, Law 5449, which says: "Those who come from public institutions and institutions to development agencies and return to a suitable place when their time is up and their time is up." Mr. Secretary, I'm saying something important, and he says, "Well, in that case, there will be no severance pay." The Çukurova Development Agency reported that some of the people you sent there were paid illegal, illegal compensation. I asked you this as a question proposal -- I have to trust you -- and I said, "Mr. Secretary, is this the way they've been illegally paid severance payable? I have your answer for September 6, 2012. You say: Answer 2: Veysel Güysel, former secretary general of the Çukurova Development Agency, has been compensated for leaving work. The answer is 3: Mehmet Özcan returned to the Ministry of Tourism, where he was paid severance. And then we say, well, if the senior compensations have been paid, are there legal transactions or embezzled on those who have paid it? The answer came from your signature: there is nothing to indicate that the mentioned process is flawed. Mr. Secretary, I have the laws of the Republic of Turkey; you are the minister of the Republic of Turkey, and you are in violation of the law. Tomorrow, I have a motion to ask, so if you'll take this money and put it in the vault of the development agencies soon. Otherwise, I'll make it very clear from here that I'm going to file a complaint, including the Public Prosecutor's Office, including the State Inspector's Office, including the Treasury and the insurance. TÜİK is also falling apart, depending on you, the most reliable institution in Turkey, its numbers are constantly suspicious. I've asked you before: since 2001, with such a large budget, TİK has been unable to publish its GDP numbers. Why can't you publish it? The answer came when we asked you: we can't find data. It's clear from the TİK President's statement a few days ago, where all this may have been a mess. (TÜİK President Birol Aydemir said it would not be possible for the real sector to borrow so much; he says: "With our instructions, we will reassess the balance of the current deficit under three main topics, and when the work is finished, you will see that the current deficit has fallen. It is a scandal in democratic countries, and the minister does not sit down. FROM whom can the TİK receive instructions and how can it reduce the current deficit by instruction, and how can it know that the current deficit will fall without work? So, I can't tell you in six or sixteen or 60 minutes, but the whole place is falling apart. I say we're going to give this budget some respect, and I'm going to pay it back. (Applause)
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0042par0153	Thank you. Mr. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu. (Applause) Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0043par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group over the section of the Ministry of Development's 2013 Central Management Budget Law bill on DOKAP. I salute and cherish our dear friends who are listening to us at the very beginning of the Grand Council and their screens. Dear ruling party MPs, would you take a look back? Apparently, the seats are empty in the budget. You know what this looks like? At a meeting, the speaker was talking, and he saw that there was one person in the hall, and he said, "Nurse, why are you standing? If you'd gone, I wouldn't have spoken either. I'm the next speaker. Now, our beloved ruling party MPs, so I don't suppose you're expecting any good from this budget, since you're not around. (Applause) Now, Mr. Minister, our dear lawmakers had linked the hope of development and development in the Black Sea region, which was completed in 2000 by the Japan International Co-operation Agency, whose short name is JICA, the East Black Sea Development Project, which had been created by the Japanese International Co-operation Agency, which had been completed in 2000, had become increasingly narrowed down, where the trade had become increasingly scarce, where tourism had come to a standstill, where it had waited for its share in tourism and has been deserved. In the 12 years since 2000, the DOCAP master plan has seen no significant improvements. Under the title Tripoli, Army, Giresun, Rize, Artvin, and Silver House, our provinces have been reduced in their population by continuing migration. According to TÜİK reports in 2010, 131,016 people migrated from the region, with a total of 2 million 509,579 inhabitants. Dear lawmakers, why do people migrate from where they were born? Either to go to higher education or to get a job. Here, from the East Black Sea region, unfortunately, they had to migrate from where they were born to find work. Unemployment is increasing every day in the region. According to the 2011 TÜİK reports, unemployment in the region averages 6.1. The nuts, which are vital to the region as well as a means of livelihood, are no longer a source of money, but the manufacturer gives the daily earner his income. Nut prices are determined by others, not by manufacturers. Also, tea, an important product, is not pleasing to the manufacturer, so tea producers pour their tea into the streets and express their reaction. Animalism is over, our valued lawmakers, because one kilogram of grass is between 0.90 and $1.10. For the price of this weed, 1 litre of milk is taken from the manufacturer to 1 TL. The price of 1 litre of water is 2.38 TL. Tobacco has been completely eliminated as a result of quotas already implemented. Importing export loads from the port of Tripoli to the Russian Federation has brought a significant recession to the trade of the Sochi Port. This situation has to be resolved as soon as possible, causing major negatives in the economy and exports of Tripoli and our region. Now, our region didn't get the share of tourism that it deserved and expected because tourism and cultural values of the provinces are not integrated into each other. The average time for tourists to stay in the region is a day and a half, and despite all these developments this year, it is our hope that there would be $23,719,000 in the budget of 2012, and in the budget of 2013, there would be $23,719,000, and in the district of Giresun, the President of Regional Development Management. I thank you for that, but of course the number offered by JICA was 32 trillion. We're hoping you'll be able to contribute to that number. In addition, it is necessary for the provinces of our region to be re-examined by Law 5084, which cannot be extended after 31/12/2012, and to benefit the provinces of the TR90 region, and that the condition of Tripoli, which is in the three-tenth incentive area, should be brought to its fifth incentive area. The railway must be completed at once, because when the Great Leader Ataturk visited Tripoli on September 15, 1924, his desire was to have railway tracks from Sarp to Samsun to the interior. Now, there's a lot of words to be said, but I'd like to connect my words to the following: Dear ruling MPs and dear ministers come here, and they tell everything about the day-to-day sunshine. You know what this looks like? Everything's daily, perfect, nothing. It's like Popeye filled up his customers and went out to sea. The weather's nice. As they left, the storm broke and the customers began: We're sinking, Chief! Popeye, we're going down! Popeye's on his way to the clearing. They cried out again: We're going down! Popeye, we're going down! They were exposed, they were gone, and the boat was smashed. They all went ashore together. They said, "Ya, Popeye, there's a storm. We called out to you, "We're screwing up." You just went on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Why did you do it? He said: "What did you say? What did you say?" We said: "We are going down." Citizens are victims. It's really hard for a citizen, people are in trouble. Let's listen to people's voices, let's listen to pensioners, let's listen to the voice of unappointed teachers. Let's make the appointment of our underprivileged vets, our agricultural engineers, our water products engineers. We look forward to it and give you all our love and respect. Have a nice day.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0044par0175	Thank you. Diyarbakır MP Mehmet Süleyman Hamzaoğlu on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0045par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group over the 2013 budget of the Ministry of Health and the National Health Department of Borders and Coastal Health. I salute your committee. Turkey's General Health Directorate of Borders and Coasts is a special budgeted organisation in our Ministry of Health. To prevent infectious and epidemics from entering our country, to contribute to the preservation of our country and world health, and to eliminate public health risks, it continues its services at the gates of our throats and at all our country's entrances and exits. This institution is of great importance, although it is not widely known by the public. Citizens who have gone abroad for work or travel purposes are able to learn all the health information, the necessary importance, vaccines, and medicines that our general administration will visit health inspection and travel health centres via telephone or Internet, and are able to receive travel health counselling from these centers and make a peaceful trip abroad, providing free of charge for vaccines and drugs related to infectious diseases such as yellow fever, typhoid and malaria. Mr. President, our Ministry of Health has first implemented the Transmutation Project in 2003 with the human password, and by 2012, the average life expectancy of health indicators has risen from seventy-one to seventy-five years, the baby's death rate has dropped from one thousand to seven thousand to seven thousand, while the mother's mortality rate of death has dropped from 64,5. These rates are very close to developed countries' rates. Fighting obesity, preventing diabetes, fighting tobacco, preventing heart and vascular disease, increasing the quality of our citizens' lives through global alliance and mental health control programmes against respiratory disease. Children's monitoring centers have been established as part of the effective fight against child abuse, operating in nine counties. The largest national medical rescue teams in Europe are participating in rescue operations in our 81 district with special trained 4.909 medical personnel. As part of the Health Transformation Project, the ward-type rooms have been moved from qualified room systems to patient rights units, and the number of physicians and medical staff has been increased. Among our hospitals are high-velocity data transfers, 61 senders, 10 recipients between our hospitals, an X-ray connected to our 10 recipients, which can be transmitted and interpreted within seconds to our receiving hospital. Emergency and intensive care services are provided free of charge at public hospitals as well as all private hospitals. In addition, there is no charge for burns, cancer, newborn organ transplants, birth anomalies, dialysis and heart-damage surgery in private hospitals. Ambulance helicopters, ambulances, marine ambulances and snow palette ambulances are available to our citizens at the highest level of emergency services. Bed-addicted patients receive home care, cancer early diagnostic centers continue to save lives. With the planned visiting mother project, the average 5,000 mothers a year survived the difficult labor by moving on snow and sleds in winter. As of 2012, 4.127 organ transplants were performed, the inoculation rate reached 97 per cent with 13 antigens, the price of drugs was reduced to 80 per cent, while our citizens are being used by mobile health and mobile pharmacy services in the country. Public Hospitals Associations were established to use their resources more effectively, medical school student quotas doubled, and nursing institutes have tripled student quotas. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, our citizens are now greeted with smiling and well-trained staff at health centers, receiving quality services, and as a result, their satisfaction in health care has increased from 39% to 76 per cent. With these feelings and thoughts, the Ministry of Health and Turkey wish the Health Department of Borders and Coastal Health to have a better budget in 2013, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0046par0194	Thank you. Eskişehir MP, Mr. Gülter Can. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0047par0198	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget for the Turkish Medical and Medicine Agency in 2013. I hereby salute the High Council. At the beginning of my words, our Eskişehir Governor Kadir Koçdemir, who was in a car accident on Eskişehir Road tonight, sends my condolences to his team, and I wish them a speedy recovery. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our government has been working with great determination and dedication to transform health from the day it comes into office. Turkey's health care has become a brand because of these steps that no government has ever dared. The organization structure, which has been restructured by the efforts of our Minister of Health, especially our Prime Minister, has been able to meet the needs of the growing and developing Turkey. As part of the construction of the new organization, Turkey's Medicine and Medical Device was established on October 11, 2011 under the decision of the Council of Ministers. For sixty-five years, the institution, which operates as general manager, has removed the bureaucratic mazes, which have slowed its pace with its new structure, and has expanded its horizon with new legislation. Turkey's Medicine and Medical Device, which have expanded its mandate and responsibility area, has been able to work together with a significant lack so far. This will allow the institution to participate in projects that are believed to be beneficial, which can co-operate with informal, national, or international organisations. In particular, personnel assigned by the institution in pharmaceuticals and medical devices produced using new technology will be able to closely monitor the development of the market by actively participating in projects that have a common denominator. Although the institution may not appear to be confronting citizens in the service presentation, it has a vital function that protects the health of the system. An important part of the healthcare sector is that drug-related activities have been collected under a single administration and put in a fast and functional position. It is intended to prevent any conflict that may arise on this subject that directly affects human health. Dear lawmakers, as I said at the beginning of my speech, health care in our country has become a brand and has risen to a world-class reputation. In the past, the health system of our country has been criticised as an example from Germany, from America, and we are talking about patients from abroad who have come to Turkey to be treated. Our country's health tourism revenues are increasing year after year, thanks to new regulations. Members of parliament, a key part of the new structure and tasks of health transformation practices, Turkey's Institute for Medicine and Medical Devices and other new institutions, are the tools of a structure that will further move forward the successful policies of our ministry. The quality of service that is essential to us is the discretion of the nation. Aside from the problems that our citizens suffered in the past to get medicine, our nation has only been able to adjust its back to the astronomical figures at drug prices because of our health policies. Today, our citizen has been able to buy the same medicine at an average of 80% cheaper. In addition, we have taken an approach that protects both our pharmacists and our citizens by opening all the pharmacies to the service of our citizens. It has come to these points with the will to stand by the interests of the nation and to stand by the same side as its people. We came from a country full of uncertainty tomorrow to a country that sheds light on its 2071s, thanks to this stability and will. Our government, who always maintains health in the first place, will move on with the same determination from now on. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish you the best of the 2013 budget, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0048par0208	Thank you. Mr. Ismail Tamer of Kayseri. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0049par0211	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group regarding the Public Hospitals Institution within the budget of the Ministry of Health in 2013, and I salute the High Assembly. The organisation's reorganisation of the Health Transformation Programme, which is part of the Change Programme, was reorganised in November 2011 by the Ministry of Health No. 663 and the Law on the Organization and its Offices, and the Ministry of Health. Through this arrangement, human power, saving, increasing resources, maintaining the balanced distribution of human power in our country, and carrying out an equal, quality, efficient service presentation in cooperation among all the partners -- our ministry, in short, has made the organisation of the professional governance of health by establishing the central institution's strategy and controlling role. With the new management style, the Change in Health Programme will continue to strengthen the sense of patient-oriented service. There is no doubt that health care will be more effective and quality in this new practice, where successful executives are rewarded. For this purpose, the ministry has been established as a ministry of public hospitals in Turkey, which is tasked with opening, operating, continuing activities, providing protective diagnostics, treatments and rehabilitation services, in accordance with its policies and objectives. As of last month, the secretary general has begun his duties, and they will continue to do their best. For better service, the first of city hospitals in nearly 30 cities with qualified bed capacity is still being built by our Prime Minister in Kayseri. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we've done revolutionary things in health so far. We've raised the rate of patient satisfaction from 39.2% to 76 percent, as the previous friend pointed out. Did we do all these innovations on our own? No. Who did we do it with? Day in, day out, day out, snow, mud, holiday vacation, with all the hard work that people can do to keep people healthy, to keep people alive, to ease their pain, to offer human health care, to do so with these sacred, respectable and honorable professions, to perform their professions with all the great hard work that they face, to express to us the honors of our university professors, as well as with our professional doctors, attending doctors, nurses, nurses, nurses, health workers, and other health workers, who thank them for all the hard work they've done, all the time, for all the hard work they've faced, and I want to thank them for all the health they've done. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You know, we're still working on the Council for the prevention of violence against our health colleagues. The Commission for Research on Violent Events Against Health Employees, the commission I've been speaking as a spokesman, has been working for nearly two months. So far, in our work, we've applied for information from many NGOs and institutions. We'll continue to collect all the appropriate materials by providing all the relevant data. Of course, I respect the opinion of my fellow members of the opposition group before me, but I would also like to point out from this platform that it's also a flaw in not seeing the facts that they did. You know better than I do what it takes to transform health. With all these thoughts and feelings, I wish that the health budget of 2013 would bring blessings to our institution and to our country, to our nation, to the great assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0050par0223	Thank you. Mr. Gönul Bekin Şahkulubey of Mardin MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0051par0227	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on behalf of the Turkish Public Health Institution, under the Central Management Budget Bill of 2013. I hereby salute your high council. Dear MPs, Turkey has indeed made great progress in health with the Change in Health Programme. We should all be proud of it. Health care has reached a level of rights available to everyone today. In health, transformation is actually a transformation of mentality. This process is crowned with the establishment of the Turkish Public Health Association. The Public Health Institution has achieved an organisational structure that can define healthcare and health. In our country, there is an institutional structure that deals with the health of those who are no longer ill, and also with the health of those who are sound. Fortunately for us, this institutional structure also took place in our time of power. Public health sees one as a whole with its surroundings. The Law 5727, which the world applauds standing up, and its continuation of smokeless airspace are the best examples. The World Health Organization has awarded this practice three times. In Mardin, my constituency, our municipality has declared a park without smoke at the suggestion of our Public Health Directorate, so that our children may grow up in healthier environments. With the Public Health Institution, the protection is better than the treatment. The philosophy has been placed in a more important place in our country, and the latest example of this is that the Hepatitis A vaccine has entered the vaccine calendar. Our families know that while only those who used to have access to vaccines were recommended by the private doctor and had money, our Public Health Institution has entered into the history of measles, chicken pox, Hepatitis A, with a sense of responsibility to protect people from disease. In 2002, the inoculation rates of 78 per cent across the country were below 50 per cent in some cities. Today, we are one of the countries with a 97 per cent inoculation rate and the best inoculation average in Europe. Mr. President, good lawmakers, the philosophy of public health is that health services are brought as close as they can get. Today, through family physicians, health care has been organised to the most remote point, and each person has a family physician. In my hometown of Mardin, they offer 10 public health centres, 193 family physicians, 193 family physicians, and health care services from Deepsu to Akarsu. There are eight family physicians today in the Dargateite, where we used to have trouble finding a doctor. In 2002, the population of the head of a general practitioner fell from 4,731 to 2,530 in 2012. Public health, no doubt, is crucial to public participation. In this context, many activities have been held throughout our country to create awareness on October 3rd, the Day of the Battle of Obesity. One of them, and one of them that made a lot of noise, was walking around with local slogans. In the city of Diller, Mardin, the organization of our Public Health Directorate has been blessed in seven languages by the slogan of the movement. We've set up children's watch centers to prevent child abuse and to intervene consciously and effectively on children who have been abused. We've turned cancer early diagnostic screening centers into more functional and active modes to prevent cancer that is the most common among the public and causes the most deaths. I thank all health workers who have worked in these services, as we wish our public health institution's budget for better services, which will eventually improve public health policies in light of science, while access to information sources and collect data and assess the method. I'd like to complete my speech with an important prescription for recent health abuse issues. He says in health compassion, compassion, love and respect are the most important medicine, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0052par0241	Thank you. Mr. Muzaffer-Bastballer. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0053par0245	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President, my dear friends, today we are discussing the budget of our Ministry of Development. And I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY group, and I salute you all. My dear President, my dear friends, if we take a look at the historical process of planned development in our country and say what happened in 1960: our State Planning Agency was established in 1960, in accordance with the provisions for development plans set up in 1961 and 1982, between 1963 and 2005, we had eight five years of development plans, which were very important in 2006, and in 2007-2013, our Ministry of Development was set up in 2011. My dear President, my dear friends, from the very beginning our EC PARTY and our government, as a fundamental principle of our country's development and development, have put our people at the center of each and every one of our nation's desires and demands, and have been accepted throughout the world, as the secret of our success. Mr. President, my dear friends, with new facts, conditions, development, change and crisis, the world is spinning fast. In our country, our ministry of youth development has evolved with its original development models, its dynamic structure, its ability, its self-secure, its virtues, our republic and our democracy's virtues, its special sector, its impact, its analysis, its results, its ability to eliminate inequalities and imbalances in all areas, and its investments in our projects, and its ability to increase our investments, with its ability to develop, with its ability, with its ability, with its ability, with its ability, with its ability, with its ability, with its ability, with its ability, with its ability to reflectiveness, with all its ability, with its ability to develop, with all of our production, with its ability, with its ability, with its ability, with its ability to increase, with its ability, with its ability to increase, with its ability, with its ability to increase, with its ability to develop, with its ability, with its ability to increase, with its ability to increase, with its work, with its work, with its, with its complex, with its resources, with its work, with its resources, with its resources, with its, with its development, with its work, with its work, with its complex, with its infrastructure, with its, with its infrastructure, with its infrastructure, with its complex, with its work, with its complex, and its resources, with the overall, with the overall, and the project, with the overall, with the development, and the overall, with the development, with the development, with the development, with the overall, with its complex, with its complex, with its complex, with its complex, and its complex, with its infrastructure, with its complex, with its infrastructure, and its complex, and its infrastructure, with its complex, and the overall, with its infrastructure, with its infrastructure, with its. My dear President, my dear friends, as I finish my words, I say, if you truly believe, if you love this country and your people, if you trust your people, if you do everything with them, and if you do everything for them, success, success will always be yours. As our Republic's 100th year speeds towards its goals, we cross obstacles, untie knots, build bridges to the hearts with ties of peace, love, and brotherhood. Every day we try to get better and better, to keep our two days from being equal. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] All our achievements and achievements belong to all of us, especially our mighty nation and our Turkish Grand National Assembly. Once again, I offer my sincerest love and respect to all of you for the blessing of our Ministry of Development and all of our other budgets.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0054par0256	Thank you. Mr. Ahmet Tofik Long, MP of Mersin.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0055par0259	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on behalf of Turkey's Statistical Agency budget budget, on the talks on the Central Management Budget Bill for 2013. I salute you all. One of the defining factors leading to economic and social development is statistics. Statistics have a very important function in terms of decision making and the possible outcome of decisions. Turkey's Statistical Agency, which is developing our country's statistical infrastructure, which is co-ordinating between institutions, is a scientific and technical autonomy that is active in decision-making processes, which is driven by the vision of creating a user-oriented, sustainable statistical system in international standards. Establishing the basic principles and standards for the production and organisation of official statistics is the basic functions of TİKİK (TİK) by compiling the data and information needed in the areas the country needs, producing quality, quality, current, reliable, consistent, objective, and in line with international standards, offering to use, and providing co-motivation among institutions involved in the process of formal statistical production. Turkey's Statistical Institution is structured as the President of the Statistical Council and Turkey's Statistical Institution. The Statistical Council was formed to advise on the preparation, implementation of the Official Statistics Programme, the development and function of official statistics, to identify, assess, and to conduct studies covering future views and proposals. TÜİK Presidency was established as a central and rural organisation to ensure the implementation of the law and to carry out the duties given by law. The activities conducted by the TİK can be considered as method research and development, statistical production, broadcast distribution and public relations, administrative and financial services, education, counselling and co-ordination, information and international activities. Turkey's Statistical Law No. 5429 and TİK's co-ordination role were strengthened in 2005. The Statistical Law envisions the process of statistical production based on participation, sharing and co-operation and makes it necessary to implement the planned statistical production process. In this framework, the Official Statistical Programme, prepared for five years, operates as the basic coordination tool for the entire system. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are the objective of the strategic plan, which was presented to the public on January 17, 2012, covering the 2012-2016 period, to produce statistics in international standards, develop institutional capacity and improve efficiency, to strengthen the institution's co-operation capacity and co-ordination role, to boost institutional activity. A total of 184m 396 thousand liras were earmarked by the Central Management Budget Act 2012 to ensure that the goals of TÜİK (TİK)'s strategic plan and other works under the Official Statistical Programme can be carried out. 69% of the 2012 spending total consists of employee costs, 10 per cent of social security costs, 16 per cent of goods and service purchase costs, and 5 per cent of the current expenses, capital costs and capital transfers. The use of current funds will continue until the end of the year. 51 per cent of the total allowance in 2013, 8 per cent of its social security premiums, 14 per cent of its purchase costs and current transfers, 27 per cent of its capital costs, adopted by the Plan Budget Commission. The increase in the budget of the TÜİK (TÜİK) compared to the 2012 fiscal year is due to the increasing needs of service units, increased salaries, and increased funding in the investment programme. The 2012 Investment Programme included 11 investment projects in 2 sectors of TÜİK (TİK). I wish you all the blessings of the 2013 budget of TÜİK (TİK) and other institutions, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0056par0271	Thank you. Diyarbakır MP Mr. Friday Inner, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0057par0274	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the budget of the GAP Regional Development Administration. We aim to assess the potential of this region with the Southeast Anatolia Project and to improve the welfare and quality of our citizens in the region and to contribute to our country's economic and social development. The construction of 22 dams and 19 hydropower plants and irrigation networks will be opened to water 1.8 million hectares with the completion of envisioned projects, producing 27 billion kilowatts of hydroelectric energy per year. The economic and social indicators of agriculture, industry, energy, transport, education, health, rural and urban infrastructure will then be brought to the country's average. A total of 3.8 million people will be given employment opportunities in the region, and the quality of life and prosperity of the locals will rise. The cost of financing of public investments envisioned to achieve the goals and sizes set by the GAP Master Plan is 44.5 billion euros at 2011 prices. The GAP estimated $38.6 billion spent by the end of 2011 and was made in cash. In 2012, all investments in the GAP region were transferred to $4.2 billion. By the end of 2011, 355 billion kilowatts of electricity was produced by the construction of hydroelectric power plants. The monetary value of this energy produced is 21.3 billion US dollars. Over 38.9 billion kilowatts of hydropower produced across the country in 2011, the share of GAP is 44 per cent with 17.3 billion kilowatts. Investments under the GAP Action Plan were earmarked for 18 billion dollars during the 2008-2012 period. Charm Centers Program applications began in Diyarbakır, 2008. Historical artifacts and tourist destinations have been renewed as part of the work of new-term programmes. We know that the ultimate goal of development is to ensure human well-being. In this framework, we have developed social support programs called the GAP Action Plan. A total of 2,751 projects and about 370 million dollars were transferred during 2008-2012. We've made serious investments in education, health, agricultural organisation. We've moved on to family medicine in all the provinces of the region. A total of 97,868 trainees participated in active labour force programmes organised by ISKUR in 2008-2011. In 2012, 314 courses were organised and 9.092 attended. As part of this action, we raised the quality of life for children, young people, women, disabled people and elderly people, and took measures to ensure their participation in social development. With the completion of the Silvan Dam, the problem of unemployment in the region has been resolved, resolving the gaps in the region and reducing migration from village to city. As a result of meeting agricultural land with water to be stored in the Silvan Dam, the annual revenue of 735m euros will be produced per year, and the annual yield of power from the hydropower plant will be 102 million euros, and it will still serve 97,893 hectares on the main channel of Kralukzi-Dicle Glamour Water. GAP means business, bread means increase; GAP means modern, high-level life; GAP means love, peace and brotherhood; GAP means solving regional problems and not paying for terrorism; GAP means people who don't want peace and peace. Those who have eyes and ears and do not want investment and employment to come to the region, those who are working on it, those who have killed the workers, those who fear watering the dams, those who fear the rich villagers, know that Kurds see the PKK and its political extensions as a obstacle to these investments. With all due respect, I wish that the 2013 budget would be a blessing again.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0058par0281	Thank you. Mr. Muyettin Aksak, MP of Erzurum. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0059par0285	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers have made a commitment on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the budget for the East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration of the 2013 Financial Budget Act, and I salute you, the valued MPs and all the citizens who are watching us on their television. The DAP, founded on 8 June 2011 for the development of the Eastern Anatolian Region, is an institution that covers the provinces of Ağrı, Ardahan, Bingol, Bitlis, Elazığ, Erzincan, Hakkari, Iğdır, Kars, Malatya, Mush, Tunceli and Van, as the centre of our province of Erzurum. It is determined by many concepts, such as the level of development of a society, institutional development, social prosperity and the level of human development. From this point of view, our government also considers the need to be a social state for the potential of the region and the purpose of using our people's abilities at the highest level. In this scope, the AK PARTI government is determined to carry out its work to carry out its movement from the centre to the ground, speed up the development of the region, and increase its development. Our Finance Minister, Mr. Mehmet Simsek, noted in his speech on the budget presentation that the project is expected to create employment for around 1.2 million people and contribute $1.4 billion annually to the economy. When we look at all of these results, it is clear how accurate it is that the DAP is established in order to close the difference in development between our other provinces. The purpose of the DAP Regional Development Administration is to co-ordinate the development of investment projects in place, first of all, to provide financial and technical support in this process, as well as to ensure that the institutions and institutions involved in the development of the region operate in harmony and integrity; co-ordinating, monitoring and reviewing their implementation; in the case of demand by relevant public institutions and institutions; in order to help develop investment projects; in this process, in order to provide financial and technical support, according to the way and on the basis that the Ministry of Development will determine the completion and integrity of the development of the development plan; in order to help the development agencies to co-ordinate and more effective work; in these issues; in order to develop the development and to improve their potential; in order to implement and to implement the development and to implement the development of the development of the development of the development of the region's programmes, and to implements specific programmes and to implements, especially in order to establish and to implements and to establish and to implement the public institutions. The action plan aims to boost the prosperity, peace and happiness of our citizens living in the region and reduce the difference between inter-state development and investments under the DAP. The DAP Action Plan was envisioned as four strategic development axiss, with the aims of strengthening the foundations of structural transformation in agriculture, animalism and rural areas, increasing institutional capacity to support the development of human and social capital, increasing the competitiveness of businesses, improving physical infrastructure. Dear lawmakers, the DAP was a long-spoken dream for the districts. The dream took place in 2011 by the EC PARTY government and began its activities for the development of the region's provinces. We thank our government, especially our Prime Minister, Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz. The DAP, especially Erzurum, thinks it will contribute greatly to the development of our 14 provinces, and I hereby wish the 2013 budget to our country, to our nation, to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0060par0296	Thank you. Mr. Mustafa Baloglu. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0061par0300	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the KOP Regional Development Administration budget for 2013. I salute your committee. The KOP Administration is a special-budget institution and a central agency in the rule 2 of Law No. 5018. It is located in KOP Administration, Aksaray, Karaman, Konya and Niğde and is located in the rural and urban area of the provinces of Turkey, covering around 8.3 per cent of the region of Turkey. The dynamic potential of the region has not been evaluated enough so far. Earlier, KOP, known only as watering projects run by the DSI, has entered a new integrated regional development process, which takes priority over all sectors with the establishment of the KOP Administration. A process has taken place in one of the settlements of humanity and the Seljuklu Empire, and has begun to evaluate the collections of the unique cultural, historical and natural values of the KOP region, which the tolerance of Mavlana Mevlana has found in order to carry the region to 2023 and 2071. This process was initiated by EC PARTY governments. Large investments in the GAP region began with small dams and became a giant development move with the GAP Action Plan of our government. These investments will be DAP, and so will the DOC. In this regard, we thank all the ministries for our Prime Minister and Minister of Development. The first official and detailed studies on KOP have been launched in 2008 by the Prime Minister's General Assembly. Our Minister of Development has been working on regional development for nearly four years. A draft KOP Action Plan was created in 2009, although this plan was not officially announced, investments in the region have been increased over the past two years, prioritizing investment in the Central Future Program. The most important example is the Blue Tunnel. As you all know, the Blue Tunnel will be in service on Sunday, along with Mr. Prime Minister's participation in the Bachelor Dam. The Blue Tunnel is a 17034-metre tunnel connecting the Skywater basin to the Consolidated Basin, and the tunnel, which began in about 2009, is a 100-year-old project of 235 workers working day and day-to-day, which is Turkey's first chapter of the Blue Tunnel. After that, once again the moors and the dams of Avşar are in place, the Plains of Conium will reach 414 million cubic metres of water. Many projects aimed at providing water and saving for the Plain of Iconia, agriculture and rural development are conducted simultaneously by the KOP, with the DSI, private administration and municipal agricultural and animal administrations and other public institutions. The KOP is not just a watering project, as one Hatti has just mentioned here; it is a development project that includes KOP, the Plain of Iconium, Aksaray, Niğde, and all the provinces in that area. I'd like to make that very clear from here. The KOP land is the most important region of Turkey, with the presence of farmland at 3 million hectares and similar area of the GAP region, but has the most unfavourable part of Turkey in terms of rain and water resources. The amount of water per hectare in the region is one-third of Turkey's average, and the amount of annual rain in the region is less than half the average for Turkey. The KOP region represents about 12 per cent of Turkey's agricultural areas and 21 per cent of Nadas areas. Dry agriculture is produced in 70 per cent of the region's agricultural areas. The region still has 2.1 million hectares of agricultural land condemned to dry agriculture. There is no other region across the country that has such large agricultural areas and that is so low on water. If sufficient water is provided, the main problem of the KOP region, which has the potential for Turkey's food security alone, is not publicly known, and with the KOP project, the Blue Tunnel Project, the region needs more blue tunnels and many watering projects. Hopefully, through KOP, we'll make it happen in the coming years. The COP Development Administration budget for 2013 is set at 104m euros, and is aimed at reducing droughts in the Plains of Iconia, increasing efficiency in irrigation, increasing productivity in production, rehab of dry farms, providing rural development. I wish you all the best in the COP budget.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0062par0313	Thank you. Mr. Feramuz Üstün of the Silver House.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0063par0316	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY group on the budgetary budget of our budget bill for 2013, the President of the East Black Sea Region Development Administration. On this occasion, I salute you all. On 8 June 2011, the head of the East Black Sea Regional Development Administration was officially appointed by its president on March 2012, which was established under the Constitution 642. The province of Giresun is defined as the province of Giresun, the province of Silver Hall, Artvin, Bayburt, Rize, Tripoli, Giresun, Army and Samsun. The project region has a total of 48,256 square kilometers and a population of 3 million,841,474. The Republic of Turkey also referred to regional development activities during the planned development period to ensure the proper use of the country's resources, the use of local dynamics and opportunities, the development efforts of local people, and to ensure integration, and to try to run the programme, one or several regional development projects each period. During Turkey's Ninth Development Plan, covering 2007-2013, strategic goals such as continuing economic growth and social development in a stable structure and boosting competitiveness in the way of the plan vision, boosting employment, strengthening human development and social solidarity, improving regional development, improving quality and efficiency in public services have been set in line. Among the main tasks and objectives of presidential development in regional development policies and potential development within the framework of local dynamics and potential development is to improve and activation of central-level policies, improve institutional capacity at the local level, spread economic development and social well-being throughout the country, keep immigration trends within the region, maintain balance distribution of population in the area, improve urbanisation, improve prosperity in rural areas, reduce socioeconomic development differences between rural and urban areas. In this approach, it is a special emphasis on regional development policies in our country to ensure rational and effective use of resources, and to ensure that development is balanced on the national market, to strengthen complementary, integration and business union in every part of Turkey, to improve role and function in our economy, to improve regional and global efficiency, and to make all of this one of the main priorities of our state. Like our GAP, DAP, and KOP projects, our East Black Sea Region Project was really due to the distortion of development in the country, because development was piling up in one part of the country, and the rapid migration of many of Anatolia's provinces into the western part of the country. We know that we're getting close to 90 percent of our taxes from 8-10 counties. Another large percentage of our GDP is 8-10 counties. We know that it is not possible for a country to continue its development with such warped development. For him, I believe it is very important for Turkey's future, for the country's future, especially for the better development of all parts of the country, especially for mandatory public services to be transferred to the quieter provinces of Anatolia. I think it would be very helpful for this country's economy to have military troops and public services like this spread all the way to the furthest part of Asia Minor, to be more effectively evaluated by removing it from major cities. I wish our 2013 budget to be a blessing, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0064par0326	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party, Mr. Iron Steel. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0065par0329	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the health department's 2013 budget. On behalf of myself and my group, I salute you with respect and love. Mr. President, the AKP's high-profile lawmakers are in power in the early 2000s, stressing a number of problems and problems that the AKP's ruling in the early 2000s, whether by taking behind the wind of both the geostrategic and geopolitic advantages of Turkey's geopolitic position, or by knowing the opportunity to assess its possibilities in accordance with its purpose, as a result of a search and a result of the political and economic crisis in the country at that time. He came from public health for ten years, from education to the city, from city to municipality, looking to solve many expectations and hopes for local governments, creating and marketing solutions. And today, what we're discussing, including the health that we're talking about, is that there is still a solution, and there's an content, and there's a solution, and there's a political and social crisis that is still waiting to be solved, and there's a sense of hope, and there's a way to change the way to the future. Today, a number of the dynamics that globalization has revealed have also felt the power of the dynamics, and have been turned into a meta that has unfortunately been employed, activated, bought and sold in health, which is dominated by marketing, subcontractorising, and commercialization in the sense of global neoliberal policy. But in the world literature -- as far as we know -- health is as good as human beings are physical and spiritual, political and social. A wide range of social demands is the fulfilment of their economic, democratic, social and political demands from education to disadvantaged groups, pensioners, poor people to oppressed people. When you do not meet these basic demands of the individual, the individual is deprived of the condition of being good, and the society responsible for being poor is a healthy society, a healthy society, and you cannot hold it at the point of a healthy society. This is exactly the relationship we've been having, the relationship we've been forced to have. In this framework, it was necessary to approach the problem and address the problem with new parameters, while the past tried to overcome it with palliative solutions, similar to what governments have done. It ended with such a search and need being reselled as hope, which was offered to us as the Change in Health Project. This understanding also led to his failure in general insurance or public hospital units or family medicine. Because the child was born crippled from the beginning, society was not based on, it was expected to solve radical solutions by taking a scalpel to a solution, while he approached the problem with an understanding that would save the situation and the current, which is indexed to the election and based on the voting bond. He remained at a point where he would meet the requirement of being a social state with general health insurance -- qualified, accessible, free of money -- and again, the green card application, BUG-KUR, the SEC, the pensioner's Office, could not resolve the relations and contradictions between them, but would deprive his people of the poor healthcare community. In the same way, the state has left a citizen, a citizen, with a service, bought and sold, in prison, imprisoned, imprisoned, imprisoned, imprisoned, imprisoned in a profitable relationship of a merchant man, within the city, in a large building that is a product of privatisation policies, that will provide basic infrastructure for the production of bureaucratic work and processing of university hospitals. This led to today's conflict between citizens and health workers, with violence in health, as it is often expressed. It is also possible to see the same understanding in family medicine. Despite being considered a relationship called the first digit, which can be achieved and easily solved, physicians, like the task given to pharmacists, have become state collectors, making profit to him, making his existing, existing debt collectors. That would have led to violence. This has led to unlawful conduct. This resulted in an operation such as a political operation on medical students. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are currently in dozens of medical students in Turkey's prisons who are currently conducting their professional activities in order to produce qualified health care, as well as being broke because they want free health care. They've been held in an unlawful, political operation for years, no telling how long they'll be punished. With the same understanding, 550 political prisoners face severe illness in prisons today. While these should be facilitated by facilitating treatments in decent places, it has resulted in the deaths of 94 political prisoners, who have been neglected and neglected and entrusted to the state so far. And that tells us that we can't approach this problem with yesterday's perceptions and understanding, if health is at a point where a society can't be avoided by all these experiences. We are subject to administrative and political structure, historical development; we deal with the problem when we do not subject administrative and political structure to democratic participation that meets the needs of society, in accordance with universal law. Actors change, parties change, and as long as there's no administrative political structure that's been changing for 90 years, we're going to have them look for what's coming and going. Let's question our thousand years. For a thousand years, there have been divisions on earth in Anatolia as well as in the world, evolved into empires, as a result of historical development, as a result of the empires, as a product of the Industrial Revolution, and as a work of the United States. The strict centralism of the nation-uniter states is still sought by action from the non-rejectionist, monotheistic understanding of political and social stability. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, social and political stability are not simple and derivatives. On the contrary, it's complex, it's diverse. So, when there is no stability based on multi-identification, multiculturality of society, when its conditions cannot be created, when objective conditions cannot be created, there is no way to prevent conflicts, contradictions, dilemmas, and, therefore, crisis and chaos. What needs to be done is a new paradigm, which globalization has revealed, based on the principle of placement and locality, rather than centrist solid structures, a new mechanism that can govern itself with the self-government bodies of every identity, culture, faith, religion. See, there's a European Union that's been turned upside down in World War II. From Germany to France, from Austria to Belgium, from the Netherlands to Poland, Europe suffered destruction. This destruction was political, ecological, democratic, but Europe took on lessons from this destruction, taking into account the opportunities of globalisation, moving towards local governments with administrative and financial autonomy, which evolved itself from centralist and rigid structure into regional autonomous governments. In the character of nation-uniter states, they are not divided by their homeland, their state, their nation. Today, these are the main issues in the Republic of Turkey, which the Constitution found in its first, second, third terms. As Kurds, we, as the BDP, as political parties, do not have a political project that predicts the state, as well as a political jargon, that the state is no longer essential to the happiness of humanity and society, that the state does not bring happiness to humanity as it is blessed, and that it should be fundamental in this respect to society. But when we can't develop this new world's ability to solve these new opportunities for the benefit of our people and our society, our budget will lead to health, education, war, and the rebooting of war vehicles, conflict, deprivation. However, despite the fact that the nation is a democratic nation, it is possible that the administrative and political structure, based on its indivisibility, is highly contested by the basis of the legitimate democratic demands, would give it an opportunity with regional governments. This will be the gain of 75 million people living in Turkey, from Turkish to Kurdish, from Arab to Laz, from Circeşek to Roman, from Alevi to Christian, from Islam to Saryani. It's not a new paradigm over the state's division, it's a new paradigm on the state's fragmentation; it's a state, but it's a democracy on the side of the state. The state must be sensitive to democracy. Next to the state, which is sensitive to democracy, the peoples, the identities, the beliefs themselves -- based on its own strength -- with a mechanism that provides its needs, its competencies, the state is strengthened, but it doesn't grow on setting up a claim to society, to subject it to hierarchy. It will be indexed to meet the needs of society. If such a state exists in Turkey, and we can go to Denmark, Switzerland, when we land in Austria, where we can go to Denmark, if we can go to Switzerland, if we can go to Denmark, Switzerland, where there is no border control, customs control, passport control, when people are not killing each other for national-uniter, while the people are not killing each other for national-unit boundaries -- as we go to Germany, Belgium, Belgium, Austria. Mr. President, in this regard, as the Party of Peace and Democracy, we, whether it's the health budget or the education budget, wish that other ministries would be a blessing, but no, for the past 90 years, death has come back to us, tears, lead. It is possible to end this with the political will of this House. The parliament should not have a will that can act only by the orders and instructions of the presidents; rather, if blood is flowing, death is happening, and if the individual sides of death and blood say that they are bound by the law of brotherhood, human and Islamic, it should solve an equal, free citizenship-based problem based on the law of the brotherhood. Otherwise, living another thirty years with the loss of our thirty years will cost our children and grandchildren the same as it did us. While the problem was so painful, in 2013, when we could implement a parliament that we discussed and shared these and so on, believe me, it is possible to provide a democratic, peaceful solution to the problem that hurts all of our hearts, but beyond that, when the dissolution, the empathy is starting to break, the political divide will not help the Turks, it will not help the Kurds, it will not help the poor Kurdish and Turkish children. In that sense, the 2013 budget, which we interpreted as a war budget, when the road was near, should have been a budget suitable for the development of peace, instead of fighting and contradictions, instead of talking about peace, where freedoms have been created, and freedoms have been created by Turkey, rather than by the Ministry of Interior, which implements security and public policy. In that sense, the budget is far from being able to solve problems and problems in this way, and is free of the qualities that can allow health problems to be solved, overcome, because health must first be qualified, accessible, without money. A poor, qualified, unadulterated health will confront us with the reality of a society that can't overcome political and social traumas that will arise when you add the psychological, social, and political traumas of the individual. We're going to hear about the future madness, we're going to hear about the next suicide, and it's going to be about the destruction of each other with the next violent and violent arguments and tools, so we're going to mow down the storm of the wind that we've planted, so we're going to look at the way to enrage a world that fuels hostility, created by hostility. However, to respect the fundamental rights of human beings, the rights of the sovereign at the human rights point, to the oppressed, to the victim, to the oppressed, to the reality of the world itself. Let alone the religion of Islam, which we don't like, that we criticize, that when it comes to it, that we respect, that we call the infidel, that he respects, that he embraces, that he embraces, that he embraces, that he embraces, that he embraces, that we boast about as a religion of love and peace, that we have to explain all the conflicts, all the blood, all the deaths. There must be some words we can say about this, because we're political parties. If political parties can't shed light on society in light of political programmes, ideological, political perspectives, if society can't pioneer towards society, society loses, we all lose. Once again, I wish that this budget, despite the war budget, would give us a chance for peace, not war, but peace, with my regards to a democratic republic in which we can be equal, free citizens in the free tomorrows.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0066par0349	Thank you. Mr. Altan Tan, MP of Diyarbakır. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0067par0353	Mr. President, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party, I have come to your attention on the budget, on behalf of the Ministry of Development, Turkey's Statistical Agency, East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman, the Office of the Council of the Council of the Plains of Consolidated Development and the budget for the Chairman of the Regional Development Administration of the East Black Sea Project. Dear friends, I'd like to start with the East Anatolia Project (DAP) and Project the Plains of Conium. The East Anatolia Project (DAP) covers 16 provinces and addresses 5 million 634,772 people living in 21 per cent of Turkey's area. This population also corresponds to about 9.3 per cent of the country's population, which is also about one tenth of its population. Dear friends, very old, there was a song in my youth that all love begins sweet. All projects start sweet, so that's the DAP project, and that's the Rail Plain Project. But after that, after a while, you look, what are the consequences of these projects with love and pleasure? There's nothing concrete, nothing concrete. When we criticize power, it gives us numbers. Like former prime minister Süleyman Demirel, millions, billions, dollars, TLS, marks, euros fly in the air, comparisons are done, but what's the result? So draw a single line, what's going on? Here, I'll tell you what happened. Today, let me give you an example from the DAP. Erzurum, again in my college years, had 450 MPs, then in Turkey, who had nine MPs, who had now gone up to 550. Mr. Health Minister also, Erzurum MP, knows that today, he was releasing six of them today. Same situation, Erzincan. Again, Kars, Iğdır, Ardahan, Ağrı... I went from Internet to Addresse Dayan Population Registering System last night, so according to the figures the state has identified today -- I call it Ardahan as a province -- a population of twice as many lives outside Ardahan. There are 226,000 Ardahans living in Istanbul alone. Of course, that number goes up every day. These numbers are 31/12/2011. You're looking at Kars, it's the same; you're looking at Iğdur, it's the same; you're looking at Erzincan, it's the same. There is also a Erzurum MP from Erzurum -- 105,000 Erzurums live only in Burma, which is also based on the Addresse Dayian Population Registering System. Now, you might say: "What about my brother, do you come to us and ask for the fault of the entire republic? " Let's do a closer comparison. So, when did you become a power? You were in 2002. Come on, the day you were in power, you didn't have the power to invest and stop them, it's true, it's true. So, where do we start? Let's give you an advance for five years, and let's compare 2007 to 2012. This migration is still going on, it's still ejaculation. So, where are these projects? And where did this report come from? Erzurum Ataturk University, Alaziğ Fırat University, Malatya Inönu University, Kars Kafkas University and Van Centennial University in 2002, has written a so-called four-headed report. So, what's it done? A lot's been done. Now, you'll see, in a little while, the government will give you a lot of numbers - trillions, quadrillions, billion dollars. We've already lost the numbers, six zeros, all mixed up. So, what's the result, what's the outcome? I mean, why are these people still leaving that area and going away? This is the same for the East Black Sea; this is the same for the Conium, which is that the central city of Iconium is growing today, but the number of MPs that are 16 has just fallen to 14, just last year. It's the same thing with Iconia. I mean, I don't want to say too much about GAP right now. After me, my dear friend, Ibrahim Binici, MP, will give a much more satisfying speech about the GAP. He will give numbers, but neither the Plains of Iconium, nor the East Black Sea Project, nor the DAP project. Again, according to the Addresse Dayayan Population Registering System, 485,000 Giresunlus in İstanbul, 490,000 Army İstanbul, and I'm not saying this by heart -- I'm not saying this by heart -- 730,000 Sivasians in Istanbul. Well, why is that?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0068par0360	The factories are in Istanbul.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0067par0361	For friends like this, there's no proper planning. Now, there was a time when Mr. Prime Minister was saying, "Sir, we can put a visa in Istanbul." Whatever happened next, contractors, contractors around you, there's so much looting, looting, you're talking about visas. Let more people come, let more buildings be built. One throat wasn't enough. Make another one. 10 million Istanbul is not enough, 13 is 23. Take it from Çamlıca, take it from Besikoz, take it from Sarıyer, hold it from Kilyos, hold it from Umraniye, Czechköy, plunder all the way from Sultanbeyli, open it up, let there be no place to breathe in Istanbul, let there be no money, let there be as many people as there can be. Well, what about the attraction centers? Denizli, Konya, Samsuna, Adana, Mersin, Konya, Diyarbakır, Urbana, Antalya, Erzurum, Van, Aydın, were to be built, there would be plans. How long have you been in power? Eleven years. How many more years? Until 2071. Dear friends, please tell me the results as we discuss these numbers. Five billion dollars were spent on the Black Sea highway. Every year the rain comes, floods, takes the road, takes it to the sea. I've spoken to five ministers for the Urbana-Habur highway through Batman, Diyarbakır and Mardin -- thank you, they've made an appointment -- including the Minister of Transport -- I couldn't get past a General Manager of Highways. Why, sir? There's going to be more money. If you don't make half as much difference as the money you spent on the tunnel that you made today between Rize and Erzurum, in this project, come to the General Manager of the Highways and answer. Mr. Mehmet Mehdi Eker, our Diyarbakır MP, says: "This job is over, this highway will pass through Diyarbakir, and Batman." I've got maps today, I've got studies, official seals of the highways, projects, nothing like the minister said. Look, Mr. Secretary, I have these projects, government projects, nothing like that. It says: "We have spoken to the Minister of Transport, which is going to be like this. We're going to the General Manager of Highways, and he says: "It's going to be what I say it will be." All of the official projects that are coming in are the existing double roads, which are now going from Urbana to Habur. He makes another parallel road that runs a mile, 2km, 3km across. And on the other side, it floods $5 billion when it's bored. Dear friends, serious projects have to be done about East Anatolia, and they need to be done about the Black Sea, and they need to be done about the Plain of Conium, and they need to be done about the Gap. I mean, why does it have to be done? 75 million people, if we're going to live in this country together, this has to be balanced, methodical, organized, programmed. Today, half of Istanbul must be evacuated. I have lived in Istanbul for twenty-five years, four of my uncles, my grandmother, my grandfather, since 1955, in Istanbul. So I know more about Istanbul's stone and its land than you do. But it's a shame! The attraction centers will be set up; ports, highways, factories, industries, import-export centers -- all of which will be planned, so that the population will collapse somewhere, a certain balance will be set. There's Germany. I mean, almost 550 MPs saw maybe 500 of them in Germany. There's about a third of our land, round, 330,000 square kilometers, 85 million inhabitants. How much is the biggest city? How much is Berlin? How much is Hamburg? It's only 3 million, 4 million. Frankfurt is based on 780,000. Cologne and Düsseldorf one million. But he planned everything, the pharmaceutical industry, the port, Hamburg, Frankfurt, the other financial center, the book was made. So, what's the Department of Development, the Ministry of Economics, the Undersecretary of State Planning doing? Sir, we have invested, I don't know, this billion dollars a year in Istanbul, we've made $50 billion, we've made $30 billion, we've made $80 billion. What if with half of this 80 million, you can shape the attraction centers in this Anatolia? Everyone lives a human life. Today, engineers know, as the population grows, there is a population coefficient all over the world, in Tokyo, in New York, in Paris, and in Shanghai. In the big cities, to make a habitable city, I'm giving you a relative figure -- if you have to spend $5 per person, that's a smaller scale -- that's 1, 2, 3 million in attraction centers, instead of two. The spending per unit, the tunnel, the bridge, the dam, the water drain, the decontamination, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Now, instead of talking about it, instead of discussing it, it's just the demagogic conjuring of words that happened, that's all the money that's been spent, that's what happened. Well, if so, why aren't all these people still sitting at home? Answer me that too, tell me. So I don't want to repeat these numbers over and over again. Today, even Adana had stopped growing. Look, it's not going backwards, but it's stopped, Adana, an important center. Dear friends, again, it's a matter of importance, for example, here, the Ministry of Development has its purpose, here, the Ministry of Development. Here, working in communication with international organizations, developing forward-looking strategies, policy that provides perspective for society, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. After that, to create public investment policies, to analyse and research investments, to develop regional investment models, etcetera, etcetera. Okay, guys, if he's got so many missions, what is it that these ministries are putting in front of us right now? So we're going to be excited, like I just said, what are we going to be excited about, like a France, like a German example? There was an argument over Holland. Behold, the land of Holland is smaller than the land of Iconium. Agricultural exports are 80 billion dollars. Our country's animal and agricultural exports are $12 billion. And a minister answered -- they say it's bigger than an apology. He said: "Sir, 80 billion dollars is exported, but did you ask how much it's imported?" 60 billion dollars.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0069par0370	That's what the Prime Minister says, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0067par0371	Brother, it's okay. So he exported 80 billion dollars, but he's got $20 billion plus again, and that's as far as I'm concerned. I was in Viranşehir yesterday. So when you look at that land, the inside opens up, and you look at the future with hope. So, the Ministry of Development, it's only 1,780,000 acres of Ceelanpınar State Production Farm today. To make it better -- not everyone knows the number, like engineers -- 40 kilometers to 45 kilometers.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0070par0373	There's a watered-down Harran Plain, it's empty.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0067par0374	What happened in the Plains of Harran? There, the water was only given to the Arab region first. Look, when we tell them, they say, "These are the Kurds. These are the ones that bring in the Arabs right now." I mean, in Kurdish villages where they've been by the canal -- I don't want to get in my friend's territory, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry -- because you asked -- because it's Harran County. There are 26.567 valid votes in the last election, 26.567. Do you know how much our candidate got? Sixteen votes. Yav, Hezbollah of Hamas will receive more votes if he is elected in Tel Aviv. That's ethnic discrimination, that's regional nationalism. Let's talk numbers, 26.567 votes. Look, there are things in front of you, go through the Internet, look at the election results of the YSK. That's how the country was divided.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0071par0375	Is it bad that he didn't vote for you?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0067par0376	No, it's not bad. Even the polling board presidents' votes have been torn, they've been thrown out, so there's a Kurdish polling chief teacher, there's an officer. It's not bad, is there such an example in the world? My dear friends, this is the state of the irrigation canals.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0072par0378	You talk like that, but there are 30 MPs in the AKP who are listening to you right now.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0067par0379	Now, for example, this work in the East Black Sea. It's built to 150 HES Tripolis -- again in these numbers -- and it's a total of about 500, with Rize, with the Silver House, with Artvin. Okay, you've done HES, you've evacuated the villages, you've left the citizens, I'm investing, I'm doing great things. So does it give you a positive value in the economy or not, where you've made 500 HES?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0073par0380	He's supplying it to the pursers.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0067par0381	Who's it for? So in Ankara, they took these allocations here, they didn't announce it to anyone. Ben, I say it every time when it comes to it, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0073par0382	Millions of dollars are flying, Mr. Sixer.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0067par0383	I'm a 32-year-old civil engineer, and after the decree was issued and the HESS had been distributed, I was informed. You might say: "You've been lying down too, brother, if you'd just been a little bit awake." So what do we do? That's how God created us.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0074par0384	They're being disbanded at night, so you haven't seen them, they're being disbanded at night.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0067par0385	I didn't see it. I didn't know.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0075par0386	We didn't see the decrees under the law, they took out 35.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0067par0387	Dear friends, today -- again, these are the writings of the ministries themselves -- all over the world, solar energy and wind energy are being weighed down, and they're being encouraged by about 30 percent. Germany -- so its energy -- has 13 per cent in Austria, 78% in Austria, 10 per cent in England, 60 per cent in Switzerland, 39 per cent in Portugal. I mean, they say to those who don't know, they're against investment. They don't want the country to have electricity. Let the people stay in the dark. Look, brother, where does the world come from? Look, there are numbers. Of course there's going to be electricity, so we're not going to get up and stay in the candle lamp; we need industry, we need light, we need energy today. Today, the world is discussing energy, talking. And here's to the Bank of Development. Now, my dear friends, 90 of us ate a lamb -- we couldn't -- with our own money. Mr. Ahmet Türk invited friends to his house, we sat down, we had a modest meal, party members, friends in a village room. The Prime Minister wrapped it in his tongue, wrapped it around it, took it away, took it to Aleppo, took it to Damascus, took it to Caucasus, took it to the Balkans. Do you know how much the Department of Development has eaten in a year? Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri has submitted a question motion, thank you. $71,000, 71 billion. That's the amount of lamac the Department of Development ate in a year.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0076par0389	Do you have any lamb?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0067par0390	There's lamb, there's kebabs on the bottom. A total of 162 billion 291 million.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0077par0391	Should the lamb be slaughtered?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0078par0392	They eat kebabs with government money.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0067par0393	The lamb must be slaughtered. There's been an expense to the Prime Minister's office in Parliament. He doesn't sit twice a year, and twice a year the Prime Minister doesn't sit in his room in the House. Again, I've made a question motion, and the AK PARTY vice president has responded to me. Do you know how much money was spent? 330 billion, 330,000.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0079par0395	Say it in lamb ways.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0067par0396	So we asked the stock market for living animals: how many lambs can you buy with this 330 billion?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0080par0397	They're eating lamb in the morning and in the evening.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0081par0398	And then there's the Minister of Development's office...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0067par0399	The Undersecretary of the Ministry of Development received $1,179,000 in housing, the undersecretary. Yahu, you came and destroyed the house of the MPs, you came and destroyed the house of the MPs; first you said in Istanbul: "Let the people be divided, let the MPs not be arrogant, let them take the city bus." Okay, let's get on.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0082par0400	I'm in public, I live in a guesthouse.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0067par0401	Well, so am I. The guesthouses won't give us room. And you've stepped on my calluses so much. I say to the highways: Make an appointment three months from now. The DSI tells the guesthouse, the highways, there is no place.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0083par0403	Even on the plane, they put us in the back if there's a ruling party MP.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0067par0404	They don't even give me side papers.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0083par0405	And then there's the Minister of Development's office.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0067par0406	Yeah. Dear friends, there's so much trouble, so much talk. My dear friend Ibrahim Binici will continue to do so. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0084par0411	Thank you. Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0085par0415	Mr. President, I have made a commitment under the 2013 Central Management Budget Bill on the budget for the president of the GAP Regional Development Administration, and I salute you all. Although its predecessors have been moved further back, in 1977, this project, which is called the GAP (GAP), has thus far left 23 total governments behind. The project's written purpose is to address and discuss the project for other purposes, even though it has been described as resolving intergalactic instability, improving the welfare level of the Southeast Region and developing human resources. As a matter of fact, if the region develops and the people in the region are rich, political reactions, conflicts will end. In fact, this mission, which the crippled understanding that imprisoned the Kurdish problem in the economic area has decorated the dreams of all governments, even if it is embezzled by the mission that has been imposed on the GAP in the last 25 to 30 years. Therefore, those who can't find a realistic solution to the Kurdish problem have always felt the need to bring the GAP to them in a memorisation of the solution every time they get stuck. The GAP project, which has been going on for 40 years, has been viewed as a means of winning the Kurds' hearts, while it has been presented as a project for the development of Kurds. The GAP project, which was turned into a snake story in this way, has been receptored in the language of every politician seeking Kurdish votes, and even if politicians and governments have changed, the promises of ending the GAP have remained intact and have not changed at all. Dear lawmakers, you are aware that AKP governments, who have left their tenth year behind, have made various commitments to the Gap, from the date when they came to work. The last of these promises was addressed in May 2008 by Prime Minister Erdogan's big statement to Diyarbakır. You all remember the package where 12 ministers, over 50 of whom the prime minister took with him, had turned over 50 of them into a full political show with over 50 MPs, office managers, governors, high estate managers, mayors, businessmen, newspaper and publishers. As part of the Kurdish opening, this package was announced to the public by the Prime Minister's highly heated speech under the name GAP Action Plan. Prime Minister Erdogan explained that between 2008-2012, the action plan would water 1,600,000 hectares, produce 27 billion kilowatts per year, increase 209 per cent per person's income, and create jobs for 3,800,000 people. The prime minister told all of us that so far many packages have been announced and reports have been published, but they are of no use. For the first time, the prime minister also looked into our eyes and observed that a schedule-setting, source-sourced action plan was made during the AK PARTY administrations. The prime minister had already provided the source of the GAP, accusing all the previous authorities of failing to find resources for the GAP. The prime minister provided the source by putting his hand into the unemployment fund, where millions of unemployed people had been asked to bring water from a thousand streams to benefit from, and therefore only a handful of unemployed people could benefit from it. 3 a.m. by AKP staff. With a motion issued at 100, the unemployment insurance Act was changed, and the prime minister was given the necessary resources just before the Diyarbakır landing. There was one thing that the AKP staff, who were used to screwing the caravan on the road, then came to their senses, forgot. Knowing that the GAP Action Plan covered between 2008 and 2012, AKP staff could only handle the unemployment fund for 2008 with a legal change. So, what were they gonna do for the rest of the year? He realized that in mid-2009, the AKP needed to redesign the Unemployment Insurance Act. In this way, the figure that the AKP transferred from the Unemployment Fund to the GAP was up to 10 billion 824 million liras. The figure was taken from the Labour and Social Security Minister's statements and is about twice the amount of money paid to the unemployed for ten years due to the foundation's purpose. Dear lawmakers, what is the status of the GAP Action Plan, along with these funds, which were recorded as revenues before the AKP's alertness, then transferred to the Gap? So, naturally, I'm applying for the official GAP Regional Development Administration website where we're currently discussing the budget. I clicked on the latest situation on the GAP. At the end of 2010, I found nothing but the numbers of two years ago. As I explained the action plan, I remembered the Prime Minister's words that the report would be drawn up every three months and that improvements would be followed in an instant. Just these two examples are probably enough to show how hypocritical the action plan approach of the AKP staff, which they announced before the 2009 elections, turned the GAP (GAP) into a political show. The amount required for the completion of the GAP (GASP) at the price of 2008 was calculated at $41 billion,200m. GAP, the government's 27-billion-dollar spending spent on action plans, turned into a snake story, stated that at the end of 2012, $18 billion was earmarked for the action plan, but the expenditures reached $12 billion by the end of 2011. Dear lawmakers, the AKP's package came out empty, just like the packages of previous governments. We've heard that the AKP is now preparing a new action plan for the year 2013-2017 concerning the Gap. I'm finding it useful to warn you now: Don't bother, because you can't finish this project unless you change your approach to the Gap, to the region and to the Kurds. This project, originally referred to as the project of the century, has no good intentions, no solutions, no nature, no people, no Kurds. The focus of this project is deception, historical and cultural genocide, political rant, energy, exploitation, dear friends. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As long as that understanding continues, the vast fertile land will be condemned to salt and barrenness. As long as that understanding continues, the farmer, who is left in need of electricity because of the wells he opened because he can't carry the water next to him, is doomed to corrode the gates of execution. Most importantly, as long as this understanding continues, it will not or will not exceed the spiritual bond of millions of Kurds, who have no place in the project and have not been tired of being deceived for years. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit02spe0086par0432	Thank you, Mr. Rider. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0086par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 40th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2011 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? Here. Government? Here. In turn, Mr. Ahmet Salih Dal, a member of the Church... [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0087par0008	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn pledge on behalf of myself regarding the budgetary budgetary budgetary budget in the 7th round of the 2013 Budget Act. On this occasion, I salute you all. Starting in 2003, our ministry launched the Change in Health Programme. The beginnings of change and transformation reflected in the ministry, and as a result, our people began to receive health care in a very comfortable, modern and modern way. The number of people working in health care in our country increased from 177,905 in 2002 to 461,877. The vaccination rate reached 97 per cent from 78 per cent. There was a serious setback in the mother and baby deaths. The number of qualified beds in our public hospitals has increased by about six times more than 2002. Again, the number of 112 stations, 481 in 2002, reached 1,854 today. As of today, the number of ambulances reached 2.939. Ten years ago, there were no helicopters, no ambulances, no plane ambulances in our country. As part of the AK PARTI Health Change Programme, we offer 23 air ambulances and health care to our people in the best possible way, including four planes, 19 helicopters, and 19 ambulances. Yes, a new era of health care has begun with the application of health care. Now he goes to the doctor's foot of our bed-bound and heavily disabled citizens and performs the necessary examination and treatment in his own home. We've also made emergency and intensive care treatments free of charge in private hospitals. We've made serious improvements to the autonomy rights of all our health workers, particularly our doctors. Again, we're building giant city hospitals under our health plan. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, our Ministry of Development, who designed our country's development process in integrity, are working with the mission of balance and sustainability of economic, social and cultural development. The GAP, DAP, KOP and DOKAP projects under our ministry are divided into roads, fast trains, subways, airports, large-scale seaports, drinking water facilities, hospital productions, new universities' infrastructures, physical space needs. The Southeast Anatolia Project, which includes my constituency, has assessed the potential of this region and contributed to our country's economic and social development by improving the welfare and quality of our citizens in the region. There have been significant developments in the Southeast Anatolian region in recent years. The reason for this is the GAP Action Plan, which was put into effect in 2008, in order to complete most of the actions and projects that would provide economic and social development, especially in the case of irrigation. A large portion of the project and activities under the Action Plan have been achieved, and the goals have been achieved greatly. There have been significant improvements in irrigation projects, and energy investments have come to completion. Apart from these developments, regional improvements continue with programmes developed in regional development. In this context, we are implementing support programs for CSIS, SDUAP, SODES and Attractive Centers. Congratulations to both our ministries for their successful work. Dear lawmakers, we are carefully monitoring criticism from our opposition MPs. Thank you for your constructive criticism. Your constructive criticism will never lead us to regression. And thank you for your devastating criticism. Your criticism will increase our tenacity, but I will return it to its rightful owner, no matter who says the insulting, insulting words. There are people at the heart of our politics. That's why we're making our budget programs human-focused. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] To rule democracy, freedom, security, there is no stopping for peace and brotherhood to dominate our lives, I say, move on.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0088par0023	Thank you, Mr. Dal.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0087par0024	No force can sow the seeds of hypocrisy among our brotherhoods. Even on our worst day, we have a powerful yeast that can back-to-back and stand up to the enemy. We will be one for the unity and unity of our country, we will be big and we will be alive. I wish our budget was a blessing, and I salute you all with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0088par0027	Now, in the name of the government -- I'll divide the twenty-five minutes into five minutes -- the first word is in Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0030	Mr. President, I stand before you on the basis of the 2013 budget. I hereby salute you all. First of all, I'd like to wish our budget for 2013 to be a blessing to our economy, to our nation. I want to make it very clear that the talks, the ideas, the perspectives that have been put here will be a guide for us in the coming period. Critics are important. There's a lot of polymics going on with the reviews. I'll leave that polemic part aside, but we'll certainly consider the criticism in our work. First of all, I'd like to express our perspective. How do we view development as the Ministry of Development? We're in favor of an inclusive development, a concept of development that embraces the whole community in the way it's being done and in the way it's being done. We're trying to achieve two basic targets at the same time. On the one hand, we're trying to narrow the distance between the world and Turkey, to get Turkey closer to the developed countries, to get closer to them, and on the other hand, we're trying to reduce the income difference between our different regions in the country. Look, a number just came out yesterday, a figure calculated by Eurostat. I want to share this in particular today: a very important number is actually a very good expression of Turkey's total performance, the average income of the European Union per capita and the proportion of our income per person. What was that in 2002, ten years ago; what happened this year, last year? This is an important indicator because you can't really measure success if you don't compare yourself to the international field. In 2002, Turkey, which has only 36 per cent of its per capita income, according to its purchasing power parity, was able to increase it to 52 per cent in 2011, with a total of 16 points. Romania, now a member of the European Union, has higher income per capita than Bulgaria. It's really very pleasant. In doing so, like Romania, we did not use billions of dollars of European Union funds, such as Bulgaria, but with our own resources, with our own hard work, with our own. We've become the 43rd country in competition. We're making rapid improvements in the human development index, but education is pulling us down there. In education, they also have the criteria: the age-25 population spends time in training and the expected schooling rate. I'll leave it to you to appreciate when the population over 25 goes to school and when they live on these conditions. It's a stock problem, and the recent success in education will, unfortunately, be delayed by that number. Hopefully, with 12 years of training, with investments in our universities, we'll see more of this impact in the coming years. In the current human development index, the structure of the performance from 50 years ago also has effect, and the last decade has effect, so we have to look at it as a whole. Thank God we're making good investments. The average six-and-a-half years of education we're moving to 12 years of mandatory education, along with the university, hopefully 13 to 14 years of new generations. On the one hand, as Turkey brings it closer to the world, as we reduce the difference between the world and the world, we try to reduce the differences within the country. Here we have our GAP (Southeast Anatolian Project), DAP (East Anatolia Project), DOKAP (Our East Black Sea Project) and KOP (Our Village Plain Project). These are areas, which are on average below the average of Turkey in all four regions, although they are at different levels. We are in a very important effort to bring these places closer to the average. You might ask, "How do you say this?," you might say in words. You need to see with numbers whether this is happening or not. We can never underestimate numbers. In 2002, our total investments in these four regions have only 20 per cent of the total rate of investments. The source for these four regions is 20 per cent of our total public investments. In 2012, we exceeded 35 percent. 20 percent to 35 percent. This shows very clearly the importance that we have given to these regions as a public being. We didn't just care about these areas in public investments, and in our incentive policies, we've defined these areas as priority areas -- cities based on the level of development -- and we've made serious investments here. That's when we improved the balance between the cuts. Turkey has not only risen from 230 billion to 774 billion, not only from $3,500 to 10,500, but it has also improved the revenue distribution. Its criteria are international. In 2002, the share of the richest 20 per cent of the total income was 50 per cent -- I mean, I'm throwing the crossovers -- dropped to 45 per cent last year. There's been a five-point drop in the richest share. In all the other income categories, thank God we've seen improvements in the last ten years. As the economy grew, revenue distribution became better distributed. The same is the fight against poverty. The population, which was under $4.30 per day, reached 30 per cent of our total population in 2002. He was over 20 million people. We had a population of 66 million, more than 20 million of which had a spending of less than $4.30 a day. Again, in our latest measurements, the figure has dropped from 2.8 per cent to 2.8 per cent. This is a very clear figure of where our anti-poor policy is coming from. All of this didn't just happen by itself. With our social policies, our rural policy, our education, our investments in health, we are very grateful for these points. That'll come out when we tell them what our total public investments are. Look, in 2002, our total public investments were only 17 billion, 300 million. In 2011, the figure reached 53 billion, 61.8 billion in 2012, and we plan 68.3 billion in 2013. There's been a very serious increase here. On the other hand, with the public-private partnership model, we're doing investments that we used to be difficult to make from the public budget, without using budget opportunities, with foreign resources and the ability to finance and govern the private sector. We make our investments much more efficient than they used to. Again, I'll tell you a number: in 2002, the average completion of projects in the public investment programme was 9.4 years. The year we're in has dropped to 3.7 years, average completion time. So we invest more and we invest more efficiently. These are very clear indicators. A variety of ideas have been expressed about the GAP. First of all, I'm surprised to see that Mr. Binici, our Urban MP, has made it very clear here that the Peace and Democracy Party is against the GAP project. I leave it to our nation's discretion that it opposes a regional development programme, a regional development programme, a programme that includes investments in many areas -- to give people jobs, to give them jobs, from dry agriculture to water agriculture -- to infrastructure, universities, to technology, to many areas -- to a very different style of development. On the other hand, Mr. Altan Tan has made comments about these regional programs again. He said he wouldn't go into the polemics, but to the end, I think, he had a polemic conversation. On the other hand, he did mention a few things about my ministry, and I'd like to clear them up. Dear lawmakers, a valued MP from the National Movement Party recently asked about the representation and hospitality costs of our ministry. So I delivered these expenses in a very transparent and very detailed way; it's 160,000 and so on; I don't remember now, in a year, the entire ministry... But, from a newspaper -- the Speaker newspaper -- it's like it's just my ministry's expense, and I sat down and made it sound like I ate all this tea, all this food. And I'd like to offer this to your appreciation for press ethics. Over the course of a year, I advise our MPs to reconsider that the cost of representation and hospitality of eight general managers, four deputy undersecretaries, one deputy secretary, and the minister's office would be $160,000.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0090par0041	By God, think again, I mean 160 grand a year can't be eaten! Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0042	Between the ministries and the ministries, the Ministry of Development is one of the lowest, if not the lowest. But still, you keep dealing with it, with other policies... So when there's no real politics, when there's really no ideas, when the project can't be produced, there's a refuge in these things...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0091par0043	So none of this matters? Doesn't any of this matter?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0044	...to this kind of thing. Of course...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0091par0045	So none of this matters, Mr. Secretary? Isn't that important?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0046	Well, that's important too, so let's look at these, and let's look at these, but...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0092par0047	72,000 lamacun, for God's sake! You're doing lamacun politics.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0091par0048	No, I don't see your understanding of underestimating the congressman's interrogation.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0049	No, no, I don't underestimate questioning him. I'm sorry...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0091par0050	This MP's gonna ask for everything! Is that even possible?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0051	Look, my dear congressman, I'm not saying that.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0093par0052	If you see 72,000 of them as normal, there's nothing to tell you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0053	In the wrong way, I'm calling this a criticism of those who cost my ministry.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0094par0054	Madam Secretary, it doesn't suit you! I mean, you have to respect the congressman's activities, of course. That's important, too.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0055	Otherwise, I'm not doing the other thing. On the other hand, he asked, "What did you do in the GAP area? " I'll give them an answer since he left, though.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0095par0057	The people are starving, seeing 72,000 less!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0058	Our investments in the GAP project are also known as valuable lawmakers. Look, when the EC PARTI came to power, the total investment in all the GAP provinces was $577 million, and in 2012 it reached $4.3 billion; the increase was 7.4 times, not a percentage. Our increase in GAP provinces is 4.2 times, our increase in DOKAP provinces 4.9 times, and our increase in KOP provinces 6 times. We've always increased our investments in these areas. I don't have time for numbers.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0096par0059	Mr. Secretary, the public hasn't seen this money.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0060	With the latest GAP Action Plan, which we announced in 2008, what was reflected in the action plan we announced?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0096par0061	The public didn't see it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0062	Look, there was always this criticism: you invest in the GAP, but you invest in the energy, you don't water it, you don't criticize it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0096par0063	You don't do energy, you don't water it, you don't do citizens, you don't do it to yourself.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0064	To me, it was a fair criticism. I'd like to finally give you a figure of what it's like to be watered during our administrations during this time of the end. Compared to the time before us, when we look at how much money has been invested in watering this decade -- this decade -- we see that our investments in watering have tripled during the EC PARTY period.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0097par0065	There has not been a dam in Bingol for seventeen years. Tell me Gülbahar Dam, when will it end?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0066	In 2012 alone, the funding for irrigation projects was 1 billion 262 million in the GAP region, 189 million before we came to power. Look, compare 2002 to 2012 irrigation grants, you'll see a 6.7-fold increase, 6.7 times. These are projects that increase the income of that citizen, increase his well-being, increase his employment, and see that you're against these projects, and I don't know, you're against these projects. Although, I know it from my own constituency.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0097par0067	Who's against it? Who's against it? How many years has Gülbahar Dam not been finished?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0068	I'll give you examples of my own constituency, what happened. Here, I'd expect some MPs to come along, stress the impact of this terrorism on investments, the impact of terrorism on regional development.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0097par0069	Let's go!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0098par0070	You also put terror on the spot, and it's because of the AKP.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0071	It also emphasizes the relationship between peace and development.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0097par0073	You're embodimenting your incompetence with terrorism, covering it up.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0074	Only a businessman, who was trying to build a ore enrichment facility in Bingol, was burned down. The construction site was attacked on the way to Diyarbakir-Bingöl double. On the other hand, our airport was attacked. Someone's got to say something about these investments to the public.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0099par0075	You're saying it, why should we say it?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0076	Again in the Silvan Project, the watering project in Diyarbakır is a project that will water 250,000 hectares when it is finished in that region. There are attacks on this project. On the one hand, there will be an attack on investments, and on the one hand, there will be no service. It's not intimacy. These two don't happen at the same time; you either defend one or the other.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0100par0078	The airport hasn't been finished in years. It's a shame! Diyarbakir's double road hasn't been over in years. So if you're tying a truck to burning, shame on you!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0079	On the other hand, see what the results were, we carried out an action plan in the GAP area, and how did the results turn out? In 2002, the export of the GAP was not even $700m; the export of all the GAP provinces was over $7 billion this year. More than 10 times higher, exports from the GAP region increased by more than 10 times more. We've got a job, a plan of action, what's going on? Let's see, 1 million 161,000 people were employed in 2007 in our nine provinces, and it's about 10 percent of Turkey's population. In 2011, our employment rate increased to 1,55,000 people. Job growth in the last four years has been 394 grand. Thirty-four hundred and ninety-four thousand people have fallen in love with the GAP Action Plan. Can you underestimate that? Can you tell me if it's on paper? If you don't see what it means for each family, if you don't calculate the bread that goes to each family, you don't understand the importance of it. There's been a good development in our GAP region, and hopefully, these developments will continue to be well-investigated. We'll never stop investing in that area. Whether it's terrorist attacks or different negative factors, we're going to take our people on the basis of our people's needs, we're going to continue our investments. We'll continue to invest in universities, roads, education, health, watering, all the areas our people need.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0101par0083	You always put prisons in the area, you don't open factories!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0084	On the other hand, it was said that unemployment insurance was being used. The unemployment insurance was used correctly; not just for the GAP project, but for the DAP, for the DOAP, for our regional development programmes, and we didn't use the employee share there. We only used the government's share and the employer's share. The employee's share was 0.25, others 0.75, some years 0.25, some period 0.75, but we never used the employee's share. On the other hand, it's in the nature of the law. We don't have to wait for unemployment insurance to get people out of work, but we also have to use these resources to get jobs. I don't want to go into the details of the investments.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0102par0087	We'd like to know the details of the investments. What investment did you make?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0088	I'd like to say a few words about this gas-french debate. What do you think of the gas-fren debates? One of our valued deputies asked. Growth in the economy, soft landing, those arguments... It's not a bad thing to make a little sweet polymics in politics. I just want to say that the car used to have a broken gas pedal, and the brakes broke, so these arguments never happened. Now, our gas pedal is good and our brakes are good, and we're discussing which one we should use when.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0103par0090	The transmission's broken!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0091	And our captain is very good, and he knows exactly when to use it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0104par0092	The engine's not good, the engine's not good!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0093	The engine's strong, the body's intact, but we know the shape of the body during your time. We know very well how the car hit during the 2001 crisis.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0105par0094	You're almost there. You're almost there.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0095	On the other hand, just because there are healthy arguments doesn't mean there's a lack of coordination within the government. You can have different perspectives, you can have arguments, you can meet at some point, you can come up with a specific action plan and a medium-term program, and you can do that.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0106par0096	That car's transmission is broken, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0097	Without strong co-ordination in our economic administration, we could not have achieved these economic achievements when there were so many crises in the world, with so much turmoil in the Middle East. We have a very strong coordination. Thank God we know exactly what we're doing. With common sense, we produce and apply our policies. When you look again, the Ministry of Development is always in favor of growth, I'll tell you that. The Ministry of Development is in favor of investments, for growth, but for stable and sustainable growth.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0106par0099	For example, you didn't invest anything in Urbana.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0100	One year of very high growth, and then the negatives are not a painting that we want, we're in favor of a stable and sustainable growth, and we're going to continue to be that way.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0107par0101	Mr. Secretary, the floor is slippery, the floor is slippery.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0102	On the other hand, this -- I can't quite understand -- I'm sorry -- there's been a comment about the lack of net error, tourism revenues; there's been a comment about the current explanation. Are you going to reduce the cari deficit by some statistical account? Some things have been said that might mean something. And I'll tell you this: look, there's a pen in the economy that we call a screw-up, and economists know it; there's an entry of money in our external balance that we can't explain to Turkey, that's what that means. There's billions of liras, dollars going into Turkey, we can't really explain the source statistically, that's the net error, and that's a positive number in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0108par0103	He came, and came from Qatar, and from Saudi Arabia.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0104	2.7 billion in 2010, up to 11.4 billion in 2011 - 11.4 billion in 2012, 6.5 billion in January-October. Now, we can't... What I would expect from the opposition is that you do some new statistical studies and quickly identify the sources of this. Cut down on this net error. I expected them to say.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0109par0106	You know his sources, and we know ours.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0107	Now, when we are in this effort, why are you making this effort? There are criticisms, which are impossible to agree with.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0110par0108	You're already responsible for doing it, so do it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0111par0109	You couldn't detect it, so you're subcontractoring?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0110	We're recalculating our tourism revenues because our tourism revenues are actually higher than we thought. We've been doing this for quite some time now, and we're not doing it randomly. We're working on tourism by rectifying our past series. On the other hand, if there are some issues about foreign trade that are missing, statistically, we are working to improve them. It can't be natural, but I think it's something you'd want us to explain the source, make it more registered. The growth relationship with gold exports has been made, as well as some comments on that.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0112par0113	Is this a growth thing? What growth are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0114	And in one newspaper today, they made a comment on that, again, as if our growth was due to gold exports -- let's say by a slightly misinterpreted response to a question motion. I'd like to make this very clear.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0113par0115	It was Babacan, Babacan.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0116	We calculate GDP, consumption and investments and exports of goods and services and taxes paid to the government and imports of goods and services and including stock exchanges. What's important here is that the way of production in our country is fundamental, and if there's a difference with the way of spending, then the statistics are included in the exchange of stocks. So net exports, net exports, net imports are balanced directly by stock exchange, even if it is involved in exporting goods and imports, because it is not due to a GDP increase due to GDP exchange due to gold foreign trade. So here it seems to have contributed positively to this growth -- let's put it simply -- it seems to have contributed negatively to the stock change. So because they balance each other out, our overall growth rate is not a growth rate that can be explained with gold. Perhaps we can present this as a note to our interested friends later in detail. Dear friends, it's very...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0114par0118	It's not gold we're talking about, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0119	I'm asking friends for information on that, and I'll tell you later, I hope.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0115par0120	I'll tell you in a minute.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0116par0121	Mr. Secretary, what information do you want?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0122	Dear friends, our Ministry of Development serves our country with macro units, sectoral units, regional units, and increasingly external economic units; it serves our country with development agencies in our regions, such as SODES, with innovative programmes, such as SDUAP. With our new mission -- you know, it used to be the State Planning Agency, and now it's the Ministry of Development, and it used to be our name, and now our mission has become our name -- as the Ministry of Development, we're doing everything we can to reduce our efforts to make our country a more advanced country. Think about what would happen if we didn't do it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0117par0124	Then our aunt would have been our uncle.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0125	Second, do not only imitate Germany, but also look at London and Paris. With the population of London and Paris...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0117par0126	Yeah, what kind of logic is that? For God's sake, that doesn't make any sense.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0089par0127	... look at their total population, just don't move from the example of Germany. My respects to all of you. I wish our budget to be good and good luck.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0118par0130	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0119par0131	Mr. Secretary has made an attempt on my person in his speech. I want two minutes' promise.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0118par0132	Now, Mr. Tan, one moment. I've watched it carefully, but when we open it up, it's going fast. Here's what we'll do, don't ruin my life. I'll give it to you...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0119par0133	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0118par0134	...not much of a tease under normal circumstances, but I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0119par0135	No, sir, he said we're against the GAP. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0120par0136	He did a total polemic. He said.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0118par0137	Anyway, I'll give it to you...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0120par0138	He spoke through all the polemics. He said.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0118par0139	Okay, I'll give it to you. I have no objection, I will, but let's hear it from the Minister now, and then I'll let my people down.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0121par0140	Would you look at the transcripts of the speaker's speech?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0118par0141	Mr. Yilmaz out.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0122par0142	We'll be right back. We have a report from Mr. Rider.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0118par0143	Minister of Health, Mr. Recep Akdağ... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0123par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you and our nation. We're doing a presentation of our health department's 2013 fiscal year budget to the General Board. I wish our budget would be a blessing. Dear lawmakers, no doubt budget talks are important opportunities for the evaluation of previous years and for the display of future vision. For those of us who are in power, who serve our country in this way, and for the opposition, we really need to continue to conduct these discussions in a way that is good for the nation, with constructive debates, constructive talks. Dear lawmakers, this year our Ministry of Health is given a share of the budget with an increase of nearly 17 per cent compared to last year. $16 billion 894 million has been earmarked from the general budget to our ministry. We will ask our great Parliament for authority to spend it with my team in the service of our people under the principles of decentness, efficiency and rightfulness. As a result of this request, I would like to present to you what we've done with Turkey's Health Transformation Programme in ten years, what we're going to do from now on, if you'll allow me to do the accounting and talk about it. My dear friends, of course, what is important in a budget speech is not the rhetoric, but the truth. See what the World Health Organization has to say about our topic, the Health Department, the Health Development Programme that our government has established. In 2012, the World Health Organization published a report. The title of this report is "Successful Health Reforms" as in Turkey's Example, at the beginning of the new millennium, what it says about 2002, and then what it says about 2012. We're talking about a ten-year reform program. How did the World Health Organization determine the difference? The World Health Organization for the early 2000s says: "If you look at the performance, health results, financial protection and patient satisfaction of the health sector in Turkey at the beginning of the new millennium, both the OECD countries and the World Health Organization were at the bottom of the European region." This is a direct statement from the World Health Organization's important report in 2012. So, what does the World Health Organization say about 2012 in the same report, and what does it say? The World Health Organization Tallinn Convention is a successful example for countries implementing the principles of health rights and demand. Thank God the Change in Health Programme has raised the Republic of Turkey to such a position in health, with the World Health Organization. What did the OECD report say in 2008? In 2008, OECD published a report. The Change in Health Programme is a textbook that aims to eliminate the weaknesses of the pre-2003 health system and reform its strengths. Dear lawmakers, it was stated from this bench that the World Bank said so, but it was based on false information. In 2008, the report published by OECD (OECD) contains these exact statements. And then, in March 2011, an article was published in the British Medical Journal, one of the world's most respected medical journals -- in English. Everyone knows that the relevant magazine is one of the world's most respected, umpired magazines, and they don't print anything for the memory, the heart, they don't publish anything. More important than the identity of those who took the article to this magazine is that these magazines are refereed magazines, and they make these publications with decisions made by these judges. This magazine, the British Medical Journal, states that once its title is very interesting: the Health Services in Turkey: and the text states that unlike the failures we are accustomed to hearing about, Turkey is an example of success that improves unprecedented speeds and health outputs in middle-income countries and captures its goals of development before 2015. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in the first place, I know a debt of gratitude to the poor health workers for this success in the presence of our great Parliament. If the doctors, health workers, all health workers, all health workers, nurses, technicians, hospitals from emergency to family physicians, health workers from all institutions, we certainly wouldn't have achieved this success, but this success is the success of the Republic of Turkey. For this, we also know that we owe thanks to you, our esteemed members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, our Parliamentary Commission, and all of our shareholders. In the meantime, Turkey has made a really important development. The United Nations has a leading indicator for its development index: the life expectancy expected at birth. How long is a born person expected to live? During this time, valuable lawmakers have only moved two years in the last ten years in countries with the same income group as Turkey, and this increase in Turkey has been five years. In fact, when discussing Turkey's indicators, including health, other indicators in other areas, the middle income group must discuss them with the countries. Sometimes examples are given here from OECD countries or European Union countries. This is a false assessment. Of course, we will strive to make our health indicators in our country the best in the OECD countries; of course, we will strive to move them further than Europe, but when we look at the facts, we must compare them with the middle income group when we compare Turkey. In this sense, valuable lawmakers have been living in Turkey for seventy-one years, while the average income group has been in countries for seventy-five years. Thus, Turkey now belongs to a life span four years ahead of its income group. And again, another World Health Organization report, which assessed Turkey's performance in the health system in 2011, says that during the implementation of the transformation programme, the recovery of life expectancy in childbirth has been more advanced than in the European region. We also see that in infant deaths, in mother deaths. In 2025, the World Health Organization in 1998 predicted infant mortality in Turkey and infant mortality at 16 per thousand for 2025. So when Turkey arrived in 2025, it was expected for the World Health Organization that baby deaths would be 16 in a thousand. Today, however, infant deaths have been reduced to 7.7 per thousand in Turkey as of 2011. Again, there are allegations that the World Health Organization reports show that it is 12 per thousand. There are similar figures in other reports. However, I would like to express in particular: Of course, we have to give you and our nation the latest research data we have from here to inform you. How were the infant mortality rates presented to you as 7.7 in a thousand? This was achieved by one of the most important scientific studies in the world, valued lawmakers. In 150,000 households, İstanbul University, Marmara University, Yıldırım Akıt University, three universities worked together to achieve this result. Thus, all of our lawmakers are expected to be happy, not only by our MPs serving on the roof of our ruling EC PARTY, but also by our precious opposition.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0124par0162	We'd be happy if it were true.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0123par0163	Because this is not just the success of the AK PARTY; this is the success of the Republic of Turkey, my dear friends.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0124par0164	I wish it were true, Mr. Secretary, of course we'd be happy.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0123par0165	My dear friends, in terms of mother mortality rates, today in Turkey, the mother mortality rate is 15.5 percent in 100,000, while the mid-income income group in countries, in countries that should be compared to Turkey, is 53 percent in 100,000. So, what's this in higher income countries? In the countries, the upper income group is 14/1 00,000. So in this area, even though Turkey isn't really a very right comparison when compared, the upper income group has captured countries. The European Public Health Report, the European Public Health Report, published in 2009, links it with what reasons: ▪ Set mother mortality rates as a political priority, according to which financing was organised, service and policies according to cultural sensibilities. I can replicate these samples, I can replicate samples from the world's literature, the most respected international organizations in the world, but I'm cutting them off here, assuming that our time is limited. So, what did all this lead to? The health satisfaction rate, 39.5% in Turkey, has led to 76 per cent at the end of the decade. Ten years ago, in the European region, in the entire European region -- if you ask what was the health satisfaction of citizens, it was 62 percent. Well, after the decade after 2000, when we carried out our Health Transformation Programme, whatever you want to call satisfaction in Europe, it's 62 percent, but in Turkey, the satisfaction of citizens has risen from 39% to 76 percent. Now, some of them want to say: you've changed perception, there's really not much that's changed. See, see, this isn't going to go on. They've been saying that for ten years, not ten months. For ten years, the AK PARTY has been in power, our party is in power, and it's been a transformation of ten years, dear friends. So I'd like to say to those who have been reciting these memorizations for ten years, in front of you and the nation, that those who repeat these memorizations actually want to say, well, people don't get it very well. People don't know why you're happy. We know these things. These are the people who are political in the way of the past, and these are the ones who forgive me -- those who are political in the mind of the National Chief era. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear friends, we are here with the nation's glory, the eye of the nation.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0125par0171	What happened during the National Chief period? Patients returned from the hospital? Were the patients killed in the hospital?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0126par0172	I mean, does it look good on you, Mr. Secretary? You're a big Minister, don't you look good!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0123par0173	We're all here by the grace of the nation and by the insight of the nation, dear lawmakers.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0126par0174	What a shame!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0123par0175	All the MPs sitting in those seats...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0126par0176	What a dirty thing to do!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0123par0177	...the people are here because they're making the right decision.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0126par0178	Does this look good on you? Speak of health, why do you speak of the National Chief!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0123par0179	He's here because he's made the right decision on behalf of power, and because he's made the right decision on behalf of the opposition.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0126par0180	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0123par0181	So... Shame on you, Congressman, who spoke to me, "Woe to you! I invite you to be decent and decent.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0127par0184	Shame on you! You're the Minister of Somalia!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0128par0185	You're the Minister, you'll know what you're talking about! What does it have to do with the National Chief?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0123par0186	This is the people's stand. When you speak here, we listen to you with respect.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0129par0187	Where do you get the courage to insult Ismet Inönul?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0130par0188	Congressmans... Mr. Secretary, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0123par0189	I refer it to our nation's discretion. You will respect the congressman speaking here...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0131par0190	What does respect have to do with your health? You talk about today!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0123par0191	... and you will respect the dignity of this bench. You will show us the same respect as we do you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0131par0192	What do you have against the National Chief? You talk about health, because I told you how unreal your story was?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0123par0193	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I make it very clear that for us, it is our nation that is most important.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0131par0194	If you want, the term before the age...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0132par0195	Mr. Horseman, please.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0131par0196	But, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0132par0197	Don't do it. Okay, you'll answer.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0133par0198	AK PARTY is a party that prioritizes people. We're a party that gets our report card out of the country. Some people are uncomfortable when we talk like this.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0131par0199	It's a shame! When you are trapped, attack Ismet Inönul. When you are trapped, attack Ataturk.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0133par0200	Dear friends, the AK PARTY is a party that, with all the actions of the AK PARTI government, has been in front of its nation many times and has taken over its nation many times, and thank God, it's a party that gets it every time by increasing the game.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0134par0202	Al, I'm applauding. Bravo.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0133par0204	If it reflected the truth that some of our dear friends of yours had expressed, if things had gone wrong, we wouldn't have gotten these votes, we wouldn't have come to power like this. In all polls, the EC PARTY would not appear to receive the approval and support of citizens with a vote of more than 50 per cent.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0135par0205	Is that what you say in the election, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0133par0206	So everyone should put their hats in front of you and think about what they did wrong. We'll do the accounting, of course, and our precious opposition will do the accounting. So, what we expect in the budget talks is that these are the facts that you're doing, but it's better if you do these things. You can say that everything we do is wrong. Appreciation belongs to the esteemed MPs of our great House, but the polls make the decision. Now, I'm asking all those who oppose the fact that SEC hospitals are under the roof of the Ministry of Health, those who oppose this parliamentary bench, do you still oppose it? Come on, we're opposed to having SEC hospitals under the roof of the Ministry of Health.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0136par0209	You did it wrong, it'd be better. Without politics...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0133par0210	The congressional logs are valued MPs filled with statements of a dozen such oppositions. I'm asking those who object to citizens taking their medicine from pharmacies.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0137par0211	Who's against it?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0138par0212	Who in God's name opposed it?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0133par0213	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, this is what the House's transcripts show.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0138par0214	Who opposed the pharmacy?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0139par0215	Mr. Secretary, can you tell us where the money from the budget was spent last year?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0133par0216	Are you still against it?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0138par0217	Speak the truth.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0139par0218	Can you tell me where the money from the Health Department was transferred last year?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0133par0219	Who opposed it? You shut down the pharmaceutical factory of the Republic People's Party, and you shut down the pharmacies of the USSR.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0139par0221	Mr. Secretary, can you tell us where you spent last year's budget money?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0140par0222	Mr. Tanal, please...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0133par0223	You can't turn back history.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0141par0224	Did you or did you not shut down the pharmaceutical factory, the vaccine factory?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0133par0225	Look, I don't really want you to...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0142par0226	You brag about selling the country, you don't do anything else.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0141par0227	Let the citizen take his medicine. Why are you closing the pharmacy?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0143par0228	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0142par0229	You sell the country like your grandfathers.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0144par0230	I say to myself and to the valued lawmakers, this is what I'm saying.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0145par0231	It suits the Minister to tell the truth. It's a shame! Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0144par0232	Let's all take note of what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0146par0233	Can you tell me where the budget money went last year?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0144par0234	Because good lawmakers never allow history to destroy the truth.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0146par0235	You took the money last year, tell me where you spent the money from the Ministry budget.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0144par0236	Whatever you've said, whatever you've put in the records, it's gonna come out tomorrow, and it's gonna come out in front of us, just like it does to you, but what's important is what's being done and what's being done, and I'm telling you again. Of course, for the success of this transformation programme, the support of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister, the government is essential. So, once again, I give thanks to all who have supported us in this goal. If it weren't for the success of the economy, the stable governments, we wouldn't be able to do that in health. Today, we can spend three times the amount of health we spend on health in the country, in a real sense, thank God. If my government hadn't given this opportunity to the underprivileged Ministry of Health, I wouldn't have been able to achieve success as the person assigned to this Health Transformation Program. So, of course, this success is a common achievement for all of us.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0147par0239	Compare your success to 60 years ago!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0144par0240	We've made a lot of laws here. In the laws we've made, our esteemed deputies, our friends on the commission, have been so wonderful to us.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0147par0241	No, they don't step on their brains, they don't help you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0144par0242	But there is a consequence, my dear friends.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0147par0243	You're the smartest!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0144par0244	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, from the beginning, I brought you some international literature on purpose. Today, the health system of the Republic of Turkey has become a model for the world, and Turkey has become a model country in health. Today, Turkey is the first and only country in the world, for example, to receive what the World Health Organization describes as 100 points, with its practices on tobacco control. Aren't we going to be happy about this? We'll all be proud of it, we'll all be proud of it. We will also give thanks to the nation who supported us in our success. Dear MPs, for us, for the AK PARTY, for the AK PARTY governments, for the AK PARTY, are the support of the people who are most important to the parliamentary group, the nation's prayers. As we have endeavored to receive this prayer so far, we will, of course, endeavor to receive it from now on. In the rest of my speech, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to inform you and our beloved nation of some practices that we may or may not expand in 2003.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0148par0248	2003 is just a new date!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0144par0249	In 2013. In 2013, we're going to run scans of all of our school-age children. We're running mouth-to-mouth scans in schools, but in 2013, it's going to be a year when it's spread and we're trying to reach all of our children. In 2013, we will begin a scan of our children, our newborn children, for the problem known among the public as the hip dislocation from birth, which we will add to their new birthing scans. You know, when we took over, we could vaccinate our children with seven kinds of vaccines. Today, thankfully, we came between the 13 vaccines and the world's number-one inoculation countries, and we reached the top of the major league in the vaccine. This breakthrough will continue in 2013. In 2013, we'll be inoculating our children with 13 antigens by adding the chicken pox vaccine. Again, there are children's monitoring centers that we've started. In particular, in some way, we have children's viewing centers to protect our sexually abused children, to save them from appearing in public or from suffering in court corners. In the 23 counties, we'll have 29 children's monitoring centers in 2013, hopefully. We're bringing in a hard tracking system, as well as medical equipment and cosmetic products. We will never allow our citizen to be threatened by cosmetic products, even if it's in terms of his health. Again, in 2013, we're starting a big campaign in terms of conscious drug use, in terms of rational drug use. And in this regard, I ask you to support our esteemed Parliament, and I advise our citizens to rely solely on their doctors to take the medicine from the pharmacy, and only the pharmacies. My dear friends, our citizens are absolutely not supposed to take drugs via the Internet or in other ways. We're dealing with this seriously, but in this regard, our citizen has to do his part as well. In 2013, we'll add snowsled ambulances to our snow palette ambulances. In some areas, we can't see the need in palette ambulances. We've got marine ambulances, we'll spread our marine ambulances. We will demonstrate the standards of implementing at least 10 methods of alternative and complementary medical methods based on evidence, allowing our citizens to benefit from these treatments but to use them wisely. Unfortunately, we have a large number of citizens in Turkey who are waiting for cornea -- the lens in the front of the eye -- to be transplanted. We don't get enough donations. We'll provide cornea in 2013, God willing, for all of our patients who are waiting for cornea transplants, somehow bringing corneas from abroad. As you know, our fight for obesity, our struggle for fatness, continues in a very common way. In this regard, I expect the support of our great House in 2013, as before. Dear lawmakers, there are talks in Turkey about measles, tuberculosis, malaria rising, explosions. I wonder if my friends who actually say that never follow the world. Dear friends, today all across Europe, France, England, Bulgaria, almost all European countries are suffering from severe measles epidemics. We also see measles in Turkey. You know how we see it? None of the measles cases are caused by an established measles virus in our country. Turkey has had a very serious exchange with abroad in recent years. We've got cases coming in from around here. Do not my friends, the valued lawmakers, know that in 2001 there were 30,000 cases of measles in Turkey -- more accurately, 30,000 registered cases? Probably more cases back then. We do not see local malaria in Turkey right now. If we get malaria from the outside, he's coming, and we're doing everything we can to control him. Dear lawmakers, the Change in Health Programme will continue to give our citizens the health care that they deserve in 2013, with good quality, first human. We serve our nation, the power it takes from our nation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're a party that knows how to transform and that's how it works. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0149par0267	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0150par0268	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0149par0269	Now, wait a second, Mr. Tan...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0150par0270	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0149par0271	Sir?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0150par0272	Mr. Secretary, you're thinking like the Chief of the National Assembly. He insulted the founder of our party and our republic. There's more to it than that. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0149par0273	Yeah, but there's a line. 1st place is in Mr. Six Tan.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0151par0274	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0149par0275	Wait a minute... Mr. Special, why did you lift your finger?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0152par0277	We both did.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0149par0278	Why?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0152par0279	Sir, Mr. Secretary has distorted our words by referring to an approach that we have never used, based on style, according to material 69. I want to clarify.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0153par0280	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0149par0281	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0153par0282	I've asked for a promise before.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0149par0283	What did you want it for?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0153par0284	We had our band picked on.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0149par0285	Your what? To the group.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0153par0286	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0149par0287	What did he say?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0153par0288	The BDP is against GAPP, it doesn't want investments in the region.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0149par0289	Now, wait a minute, there's an election zone...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0153par0290	He's accused our group, and he's made unrealistic statements about the electoral zone and the region, about our policies, and I'm going to fix it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0149par0291	That's four so far. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0154par0293	I'm in, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0149par0294	Oh, not so much.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0154par0295	But the Minister twisted the facts.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0149par0296	Here you go, Mr. Tan. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0155par0299	Mr. President, thank you for your promise. First of all, let me tell you something very brief about this Gap. Here's the speech report on the GAP. I've got one sentence, one sentence at a time. If you've got something, come up and say it. What are we saying? $19 billion to the GAP, money to the dams, but $23 billion in electricity was obtained in return. 86 per cent of the dams are finished, 15 per cent of the channels are finished. 7 million,200,000 people live in these seven provinces now, within the scope of the Gap. If it's over, you've said it without -- 3,800,000 people will get jobs, 20 million populations. There'll be 13 million more people there. Why doesn't the government finish the dams at work? So it doesn't end up side by side in a region of 20 million Kurds and attraction-based oils. That's what we object to, plain and simple.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0156par0302	I couldn't believe it! I couldn't believe it!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0155par0303	There's going to be 20 million populations, 20 million populations, loud and clear.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0156par0304	I don't believe it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0155par0305	There are now 7 million 200, with the numbers you gave me... The other one, sir, is polemic, there's touch. Brother, if you do polemics, you'll be made king of polemics. 999 lambs are also accounted for, and 330 billion rooms are accounted for, and 71 billion lamads are accounted for. My grandfather had a friend back home, Hadji Ali Misto. He got a little rich, a little rough. And her relatives are poor. He's got a bad mouth. He says, "Look, I swear to all of you, motherfucker, but don't you swear to me." Why? My brother, is that a thing? Is that a thing? Then you won't do the polemics, you'll be careful. Your house is glass, you will not throw stones at anyone else. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0157par0310	Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0158par0312	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, here's the minister in charge of the GAP, and the DAP. According to the level of socioeconomic development of the provinces published by his ministry this year, the last 10 places are: Mush, Hakakari, Ağrı, Şırnak, Siirt, Bitlis, Van, Mardin, Ardahan, Batman, Iğdır, Kars, Diyarbakır. I guess that's all there is to it. He's a Bingol MP. Look, Bingöl, the population is 250,000; the migration outside is 300,000. The number of voters is 153,000, and the number of people with green cards is 128 thousand. The time is short, so I won't comment on it, so you can comment on it. The airport he mentioned hasn't been built in 17 years, started 17 years ago. The Gülbahar Dam hasn't been built in 17 years. Diyarbakir-Bingöl Road... there's been work on that road for as long as I can remember. Tens of people die there every year, and so on. You can't make the 40km of Bingöl-Solhan Road, let alone Diyarbakır-Bingöl Road for ten years. Let's say we're right about what you said. It hasn't been done for ten years, and every winter there, dozens of our citizens are dying. Our deputies are on their way... two of our college students lost their lives there this year... because there were no overpasses on the freeway in the flat tree area. On the other hand, why do we care about this office, the Undersecretary's residence, the case of the lamacun? Look, half of Bingol is in debt to Tokyo because of the earthquake's victim. Because he couldn't pay, he owed interest to banks. That way, if you spend trillions on your office room while half the city is in debt for housing, if you buy your undersecretary a trillion-dollar dwellings, we'll come and talk about it here. It is our duty to answer for the children of Bingöl when they lie hungry and dream of their magpies, if you take out the 160 grand of lamacun, the cake, the kebab bill, on behalf of our people. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0159par0318	Mr. Slim, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0160par0320	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, our friends are critical of health policy, and you're in the 1930s. You're telling the truth, the National Chief was tech illiterate, he didn't know how to use computers, he didn't understand the Internet; in the time of the National Chief, for example, the technology in hospitals was so backward, there really wasn't a C.T. device in the hospitals; I wouldn't be surprised if you said that. So you're going to leave all this. Look, I'm going to ask you very clear questions: One, you mentioned our contradictions. Didn't you oppose the mandatory service and then bring it yourself? Number two: who had a bad look at the vaccine? Look, let me ask you something much clearer: 3 trillion dollars, $925 billion, 4 trillion in the bank account of a hospital manager's wife in a district -- a district in Trakya, a major district. Investigators are detecting it, they're asking, and I've just been informed that my wife has about four trillion dollars. Mr. Secretary, what did you do about this? If you can't remember that county, I'll remind you of it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0161par0326	Thanks.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0160par0327	Another: The nation is voting for us. The people didn't vote for you at one time. This nation didn't make Mr. Erdogan the MP in 86, it didn't make Beyoglu the Mayor in 89, it didn't become a preferred member in 91. Today he gives you, tomorrow he doesn't give you, today he gives you more, today he gives us less, tomorrow he gives us more, gives you less, that's what democracy is like. The people voted for us. Are you capable of doing anything you can think of? You're here in this county -- you're in charge -- ask about the money. Have you filed an investigation? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You should be able to tell what district it is right now. I'll pass it on if you don't understand, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0162par0332	Say it from the stand.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0163par0333	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0164par0335	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, it really embarrasses me that my country's Minister of Health is getting up here and giving a speech like this.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0165par0337	You don't have to do that. You'll know when you look at the services.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0164par0338	Now, let me ask you a question, let me ask you a question, let me ask my friends. Guys, what does this AKP do when it's stuck, what does it attack?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0166par0339	He shall attack Ataturk, and attack the Inön.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0167par0340	He attacks the Innu.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0164par0341	He will attack Ataturk, or attack the Inön.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0168par0342	What else does he do?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0164par0343	Whenever he is in distress, he arises here, and attacks the Inönon, and Ataturk. The MP here says, "What else does he do?"
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0169par0344	▪ We received 50 per cent of the vote.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0164par0345	Whenever we get stuck, the people vote for us, the people say behind us. We know all about that. Get up here and answer what I'm asking you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0170par0346	Give me yours.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0164par0347	If you're brave, answer my questions. He says to me, "From falling behind to leading." Look at the title, the title! Who made that title? Your men have cast this title, your men!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0171par0349	If you want an answer to your question, fix it first.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0164par0350	A magazine, a scientific magazine -- look, I have a considerable amount of literature -- does not interfere with the contents of this magazine, it does not vouch for its accuracy in any way; it only sees if it is technically done, if it is properly written. You're responsible for what he's got in there, you're saying to yourself, you're out here, the world praises me. Tell me, is the baby death rate 7.7 in a thousand or 12 in a thousand? You're standing here saying that the World Health Organization praises me. The same World Health Organization says: "No is not 7.7, it's actually more than 12 percent; let's agree, let's report it at 12 percent." So you say, "Yes." And then you get up, and you come up here and you say, "Our kids did research; they did 7.7." Is that a thing? When you're doing the World Health Organization reports here, your people haven't read the places that start after comma, and you haven't read them, so read them. ▪ The people were pleased, but never at the European level, he says. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I've read them one by one, line by line, and you can read them and learn a little.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0172par0355	Thank you. Which one of you first? No, two minutes from there...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0173par0357	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0172par0358	Oh, for God's sake. Mr. Special, I mean, there's nothing nice about being a brat, so not if we put it in order, that's not true. I mean, I've promised people who are interested. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0174par0362	Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers have just announced that both the GAP project and the investments are important, and I'm glad to hear it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0175par0363	Mr. Secretary, that's what we said in the beginning.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0176par0364	It's against the BDP. You said it's against the BDP.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0175par0365	Mr. Secretary, that's what we said at first.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0177par0366	But let them take a second look at a conversation made by a friend of ours, and examine for themselves what was said in that talk about the GAP.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0178par0367	Look, here's the report...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0179par0368	Here's the report, read the report.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0180par0369	There's a record, there's a speech.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0181par0370	This is where I...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0182par0371	Here's what we said, in the transcripts!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0183par0372	Here's the report, I'll get it for you!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0181par0373	Here's what I suggest from here...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0184par0374	Send a report to the group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0181par0375	Here's what I suggest.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0185par0376	He doesn't say anything, don't wave. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0181par0378	From now on, let's protect these public investments, private investments, together. Let's take care of all the investments that will increase the welfare and employment of that region. Criticize us if we do, and we'll fix them, but let's keep these investments together. I believe that whether he voted for the AK PARTY or voted for the Peace Democratic Party...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0186par0380	Peace and Democracy Party, speak the truth.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0181par0381	All our people, all our people are our brothers. I believe they all want service, I believe they all want peace, and we have to do it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0187par0382	Then end the war! Give up the war, make peace!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0181par0383	On this occasion, there was a question about severance, and I want to give him an answer, and I have some time. Here, the law says that the services of those returning to previous institutions are assessed in the earned rights monthly and phases of the agency. In this case, if the severance pay is paid, that's not going to the institution they're going to, those rights, those responsibilities.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0188par0384	Mr. Secretary, there is no such thing as payment. There is no such thing as payment, it cannot be paid, it says.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0181par0385	That's the current information I've been given.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0188par0386	Mr. Secretary, you're reading it wrong. He says it's not worth it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0181par0387	No... it says here that the earned services of the agency are assessed in their monthly degrees and levels of rights at its new institution. But I don't want to evaluate it there. I don't want to pass these rights on to that new agency. Give me severance. When the board says, "There is a payment like this, but we can renegotiate. " So...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0188par0389	He gets two severance checks at the same time.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0181par0390	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0189par0392	Yes, thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0190par0396	Mr. President, they're teasing and answering...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0191par0397	But you can't, Mr. President. Twenty-five minutes of conversation should last two minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0189par0398	I swear to God, this whole taunting thing... think of a train, one of them starting, all the cars behind him, even the end of the rope, it's not worth it, it's like the condition of Nasretttin Hoxha.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0191par0399	But you promise to talk for twenty-five minutes, and then you promise again, no!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0189par0400	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0192par0402	Dear President, thank you. Here, we should make it a principle not to be tolerant but to respect one another. For example, a valued MP, who has just been mentioned as being bullied, spoke and spoke when talking about me. A man may say to a man, or to a man, or to a man, a matter of choice, but while I'm speaking from here, I'm going to refer to him as his precious MP. Because this is a platform that requires that kind of talk.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0193par0405	You've got a lot of respect!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0192par0406	The whole nation is watching us from here, the whole nation is following us here, the precious MPs.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0194par0407	I'll get the transcripts out, Mr. Secretary. That's what I call it. I'll release the records and send them to you, Mr. Secretary. Then you'll be ashamed. Look, I'm talking about you guys.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0192par0408	Look, dear lawmakers, now, I didn't mention an article. Congressmans, I have presented to you the success of the Republic of Turkey's health reform, health transformation, from dozens of reports by international organisations. I'm not talking about an article. See, it's the latest report published by the World Health Organization in 2012. ▪ Successful Health System Reforms: Turkey's Example. Turkey has done what few countries can do in a short time. Health and health care has dramatically improved outputs. The World Health Organization says so.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0195par0412	How much does the baby say to die?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0192par0413	And while I point to a period of time, I say, dear lawmakers, that there is no longer a period of single-party rule. Everyone's happy. People are happy, but people don't know why they're going to be pleased. There's no point in saying something like that. It is the great nation that makes us speak on this stand. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0196par0416	Mr. President, after the speech I just made, Mr. Secretary, when he spoke, he referred to the words that we didn't use...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0197par0417	Your name didn't come up. Now, Mr. Special, well, I'll get the transcripts, I'll look at them, and I'll make a decision.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0196par0419	Sir, it has nothing to do with you bringing in the transcripts, I've requested a word as normal as the request of our other friends.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0197par0420	Maybe. I didn't hear it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0196par0421	It's unfair of you to promise me here, to promise our other friends.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0197par0422	Not to your other friends, but to your Group Vice President.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0196par0423	They're all our friends.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0197par0424	Reverend, wait a minute... I promised your group's deputy, plus Mr. Pitcher. Since I've been following that subject...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0196par0426	You obviously didn't follow up on my subject.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0197par0427	No, since I saw that speech, Mr. Horseman spoke to the Minister, and the Minister has returned and invited him to the service. Therefore, I promised Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0196par0428	I don't want a word out of words.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0197par0429	I get it. Now, therefore, I'll see to it that I get your report, Mr. Special. If there's such a pollution of knowledge, an insult to you, a mistake to you, a taunt, I promise. Okay? Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0198par0432	You wouldn't listen to me, Mr. President, but you wouldn't listen.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0197par0433	Sir?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0198par0434	You didn't listen to me. I'm not making that claim.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0197par0435	What do you claim?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0198par0436	I say in my speech that my views were not reflected correctly by Mr. Secretary, and I have a request for the second sentence of Article 69.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0197par0437	And I say, since it's the right of a friend here to make a decision based on the clause 69, I'll bring in the transcripts so I can make that decision and see if your claim is true.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0198par0438	But your...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0197par0439	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0198par0440	Don't mention it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0197par0441	When the transcripts come... it's already written. I'll make a promise to Mr. Kaplan until the statements arrive.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0198par0442	Of course, but since you've established the distinction there, I'm uncomfortable and I'd like to request it. Otherwise, you'll have to discuss your attitude...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0197par0443	I'm gonna start a procedural debate right now. Here you go. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo President) The voices, applauding]] Just a minute, Mr. Special... let's get the stuff.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0199par0447	Against...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0200par0448	Against you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0201par0449	Mr. President, in favor.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0202par0450	Lehte...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0203par0451	Against Mr. Special, Mr. Tül; in favor of Mr. Şandir, Mr. Aydın. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0204par0453	Don't you want to go first, sir?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0203par0454	No, you came here first, because I sent you back... that's why I gave it to you. If you'd like, I'll give you what's in your favor, if you're giving up. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0204par0458	Mr. President, I've always been in favor of almost all the attitudes you've shown for the administration you've shown so far, in my own inner world. And I've always appreciated your sense of justice, and I've shared it with you from time to time, with our other friends. However, I have made a principled promise that a member of parliament should be younger, be younger, and be more active than other friends' attitudes, not create a weakness at the point of using the rights of the Civil Code. Thank you for your understanding. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0203par0460	Mr. Special, I'm afraid you're only going to talk about my attitude. It's about the procedure, not the minister. Talk about me.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0204par0462	Mr. President, in that case, allow me to share with you these verses that I care very much about your attitude, that I love very much, and that I think will contribute to the point of expressing your attitude.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0203par0463	Yeah, sure, sure.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0204par0464	We know what makes us sick, When we get sick. They say, "You're in ten years. In fine schools...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0205par0471	Are you referring to the presidency?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0204par0472	You've spent the world's money. He has knowledge to be. Then it's in your hands to heal us. What do you think, you got it? To see you when you get here. They're taking our clothes off. It's not difficult to understand the cause of our illness, Take a look at us. That's when you learn everything. Because whatever's wearin' our dress, He's the one who's worn out our bodies. You mean the damp, the pain in our bodies. Because it's a stain on our walls. Why the damp? Hard work, little food. As for you, [O Muhammad], you are an admonisher. Your lesson, live in the flesh! It's like saying...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0206par0493	Is this a poetry contest?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0204par0494	Get out and live somewhere else. How much time do you have for us? Look, you have a rug in your house, That's at least 5,000 examinations...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0207par0498	What does that have to do with the President's attitude?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0204par0499	In order to prove himself right, It's not my fault. You say it, you say it, you say it. Go to the wet spot, ask, That's all he'll say. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0208par0507	I want to applaud you standing up, bravo!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0209par0508	He kept his promise here because they didn't promise him in the elementary school play.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0210par0509	Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0211par0510	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, Mr. President, dear friends, this Parliament has passed many budgets so far, many debates in numerous laws, but unfortunately, we have the first in this budget. The anthems were sung on this stand, on this stand, unnecessaryly, even though it was the Presidential Court, the poems were recited...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0212par0512	He needs to talk about the procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0211par0513	I suppose after a while, my friend comes along and starts playing the reed.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0213par0514	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0211par0515	Dear friends, Congress requires seriousness. This is the stand of the nation, and there is no time to waste an hour on this stand, let alone an hour or a minute of loss. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Mr. President of the House, Mr. President, in fact, until today, both last semester and this semester, in a very serious sense, has led this House, and on behalf of myself and my group, I'd like to thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0213par0519	Don't mention it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0211par0520	And to this day, I really want to thank all of the Speakers for having a very fair government, even though they're from a different group, and I invite all the Speakers of Parliament to work in the same way. In fact, in this Congress, we see the Deputy Speakers, we also see the positions, we see the speech of the MPs in the group here, but I'd like to express that I'm in favor of your current position, and I'd like to express my gratitude once again because of your attitude so far. Our friend, however, has been unfairly controversial. Yes, opening up a legal debate is a right born of the Civil Code, but the 69th article there is very clear: it says that the accused is being bullied.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0214par0523	Read the rest, read the rest.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0211par0524	I would like to request that a friend make a persistent request, not to make a promise, not to be even made, if there is one. I would like to make a statement, but I would like to thank the Council of Parliament for its position. And I would like to thank its position again. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0215par0527	Mr. Slim, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0216par0528	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. President, allow me to make a break for it: Eighty-eight years ago, my family and Mr. President's family left a state and came from two villages side by side to country. Now, my dear citizen, the President, Mr. Free Private, is a member of my party, one of my party's young, cervical voices. Now, I didn't want to burn the skewer or the kebab, so I thought I'd catch a break. And it occurred to me that my free brother, the afflicted child, depends on where you look at it. I think, on the bright side, she's cute, she's hardworking, she's good, she's a bit of a tease. That's not so bad. Yeah, a little like you. From time to time, we are able to speak out of this chair or from that stand. Unfortunately, I said that to a young friend of ours one day: your ink isn't dry yet, you came yesterday. However, when I came here, I was 38 years old, Mr. Free Special, and now I'm 48 years old, but 38 years old... I mean, he was 38 when he went up to Samsun. This was the beginning of the salvation of this land. I don't think Mr. Free Special should make a sad conclusion here, and I think Mr. President should take it as a compliment, because you're actually a good orator, and you're good at it. For the first time in ten years, I've tried to handle the situation on this bench. This is the first time I've done this. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0217par0535	Thank you, Mr. Slim. Now, first of all, dear friends...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0218par0537	Mr. President, I want a word because the speaker who just spoke, I'm afraid he's going to come and play here. This isn't a reed-stealing place. Ben, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk to you about this.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0217par0538	Wait a second. Well, we're not done yet, we're done. We've got plenty of time. We'll finish it. Can I finish a sentence, please?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0218par0539	Sir, look...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0217par0540	Yes, Reverend, Mr. Shandır will speak, and the discussion of the procedure continues. If you'll excuse me, have a seat.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0218par0541	Okay.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0217par0542	Mr. Lawmakers, please... I said Mr. Special is a troubled child's attitude, because I accept it as a lovely style. I've never dealt with people's age or their head. I have no idea how old Mr. Special is. I apologize for the word of the afflicted child, it will never repeat itself again. That's the first one.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0219par0544	Don't mention it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0220par0545	Don't mention it. That won't be necessary, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0217par0546	But I try to address you very carefully, I say. To avoid interrupting the words of most of you...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0220par0547	Mr. President, there's no need to apologize.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0217par0548	No, no, I apologize, for the record. So I didn't understand him at all because I thought Mr. Special was going to bring in the rules because I said he wanted to. So, if he only had any objections over the poor child's behavior, I'd already apologize, and I'm sorry.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0221par0549	I apologize to you, too.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0217par0550	It won't happen again. I try not to interrupt your words, to be as tolerant as possible, sometimes to allow you to express yourself in two minutes' time, to loosen the Civil Charter, to bend it, but it seems that I have to apply Motamoth to the Civil Charter; I have learned this lesson today. Therefore, I invite everyone to follow the letter, to the letter, to the point, to the comma. Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0222par0553	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, first of all, I have made a commitment in favor of Mr. President of the Civil Code to discuss this procedure. The President's applications are not in violation of the Civil Code. So I also watched the President's speech with sadness. Dear friends, we're in a really heavy, important negotiation. Budget talks are not just a power-Muslim dispute; it is a common responsibility, the obligation of this Assembly, this General Assembly. We're budgeting the country. So, we're going to have criticism, we're going to have objections, we're going to have suggestions, but our common responsibility is to complete budget talks with a healthy negotiation, even if it's conditional. If Turkey is a state of law, it's a law enforcement process. It's a heavy negotiation. We've been working for a week. We'll be working for another week. So, I know you're tired, but I advise everyone to be patient, to be respectful, to be respectful, to start with myself. The actions of fatigue may be misunderstandings. I recommend that we be tolerant of each other. The nerves are getting tense, but I, as lawmakers, would like to remind these friends in the front, believe me, our friends in the back, sitting on the bench, sitting on the presidential court, their work is much harder than ours. So far, 11 o'clock. It's been under discussion for about five hours since 00. We've all been out there at least 10 times in these five hours, but, ma'am, she's sitting there. So let's respect the work, let's be tolerant of each other, try to cover up each other's shame, cover up each other's wrongs, and there's no point in hurting each other by taking advantage of each other's wrongdoings. I believe there is hardly anyone in this room who is displeased by our President's administration. I also want to thank Mr. Aydın for giving him the right. And we thank Mr. Akshener for his leadership as our group. With health, with peace, I demand that these negotiations be completed, and I pray, and I wish, and I pay all of you my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0223par0559	Thank you, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0224par0560	Mr. President, if you'd like, I can give you the report, but I've addressed the Minister, who said I'm calling him. He addressed me as...... For his information, he can take care of the report himself. My respects.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0225par0562	The report of the latest talks? [[Continue]] 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency Central Management Budget for 2013 TOURKEY CAMU HOSTAGES BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Institution Central Management Budget for 2013 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Budget for 2013 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Development Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Undersecretary of the State Planning Agency 1) Turkey Statistical Agency Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey Statistical Institution 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2013 Central Management Budget I) CONNECTION PROJECTION PROJECT CENTER OF CONNECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman of the 2013 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget 2013
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0226par0601	On behalf of the individuals, the last speech is against Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0227par0604	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Aydın, said that artists come here with reeds.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0228par0605	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0227par0606	You exaggerate a little, see, there are words from the Prime Minister of Sivan Perwer, who says in 2009: "When you say "Hazal and Aleppoce," we dive deep into the heart of the world." Now, what did Shivan Perwer say when he said Aleppoce? I'll read it to you in two verses, it's going to be bald, it's going to be verbal. I'll read the Turkish to be understood.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0229par0608	You can also read Kurdish.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0227par0609	But your Kurdish-rooted deputies -- which you were banned from Roboski yesterday -- were released from Dobroski -- will understand very well. It starts with saying.......... aleppoce, meaning: Again, it is a decree for us. There's jet booms and grunts from above. It leaves fire, smoke and fog everywhere. From below, the screams of children, the voices of parents' help. History is repeating itself again, like a time of time, as usual. Now, we see the Health Department budget. The Prime Minister of this country said: "Every abortion is a Uludere. " I mean, matching the mass murder of Roboski (Uludere) to the abortion hurt even more. It has greatly increased the suffering of parents, brothers, and sisters, and has exhausted their faith and hope. Of course, Uludere is not an abortion. The nation is a mass murder, a crime of humanity. Women stormed the squares against abortion debates on their bodies, against male-dominant violence against women, against cesaryne, and from his doctor's point of view. The Prime Minister stepped back there, but every abortion is a Uludere. How painful, winging, humiliating, humiliating, heartbreaking, cruel. In Uludere, women still wear blacks, and in Uludere, parents came to this assembly, seeking justice in this assembly. Is it too much to ask for? Find the man who ordered the hit, bring him to justice. But yesterday, the Prime Minister told you that there is an administrative and criminal investigation going on for a year, but the families in Roboski are being arrested and imprisoned. 60 of them are being investigated, and endless investigations are turning into endless tortures. Is it too much to apologize for? So proud, so cruel, so proud, so proud, so strong, so drunk, it poisons you. The error is not an injury, and compensation is not an injury. Turkey's conscience stood, Human Rights Association, MEZLUM-DER, Medical Association, all NGOs, all gone. The nation's cry for help began in film, documentary, song, generation after generation, from century to century. Who gave the order to shoot at the F-16....who dropped bombs on 34 lives? Do those who call the seekers of justice a hero who is responsible for the massacre? The nation is the cruelest approach to medical history with the analogy of abortion. Science and humanity, of course, will know that pilots are doctors, that bombs are not scalpels, that when they look at the autopsies of 34 disintegrating souls that start from 14, they will take into account those responsible for an era in front of the public and history. You Kurdish-rooted lawmakers, you'll only have one honorable stance, and I say an apology to the Prime Minister and you'll have to answer for it, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0230par0619	You are not the keeper of our honor.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0227par0620	You keep being Dobrovski Metiner from Roboski!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0231par0621	Don't talk, Mr. Hasip.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0227par0622	If you had honor...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0232par0623	Everyone talk about their own dignity!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0227par0624	Roboski's... (Whispers) Get out of here!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0233par0625	Mr. Hasip... Mr. President, step in, will you? (x) Some words were expressed in a non-English language by the Hajip in this chapter.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0234par0628	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0235par0629	Everyone is the keeper of his own honor.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0234par0630	Dear Metiner, please...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0235par0631	You're the last person to talk about the honor bet!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0236par0632	One day I'll tell his films from this stand.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0235par0633	You'll be damned if you don't!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0237par0634	Dear Metiner, Mr. Kaplan, please...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0238par0635	Mr. President, my statement about artists has been distorted, and I'd like to explain it according to 69.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0237par0636	Who twisted it? Mr. Kaplan?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0238par0637	Yeah. I want to make a promise that the speaker twisted my earlier statement in relation to the artists.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0237par0639	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0238par0642	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, we've just made a promise that we're going to have a procedure and a manner of discussion, and we've talked about the position of this House as the seat of the nation, the importance of language and language to be spoken here. And when I said that, of course, we saw examples that we weren't used to, and we said that the anthems were read, the poems were read, and I was afraid that the person who took the reed would come here and sing the song the day after tomorrow. I've never had a negative opinion about artists, and I never will. I'm a man who likes to talk and talk. In that sense, he'll get up and... of course, he'll be an artist, but he doesn't belong on this bench, I mean him. Look, we're discussing important issues, we're discussing budgets, and we need to use a more stable, more appropriate, more sophisticated language when we discuss budgets, and we need to talk about budgets, and I'm trying to express that. Secondly, friends, of course, especially regarding the abortion, our Prime Minister stated that abortion was a massacre.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0239par0646	He said Uludere.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0238par0647	That's right, there'll be a massacre. What does that mean? In connection with the nation, did he express that this was also a mistake? Did he say there was a mistake here? If it's a massacre, if it's like him in Uludere, it also means the error in the nation.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0240par0648	Abortion is a right, not a massacre!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0241par0649	You can't decide that abortion is a massacre, the Prime Minister can't decide!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0238par0650	If you could read this statement, if you could read it, by asking your conscience sincerely, you would understand what the outcome is.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0241par0651	Abortion is a question of women, not your concern, not the Prime Minister's.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0238par0652	Besides, look, dear friends, it's a terror zone, it's a troubled place, and it's already been breached before. Didn't the writing and the visual media say where you were when you were being breached, or when it happened? Why were you late? It's a mistake in the absence of the new Gediktepe, and we've accepted that wrong, and we've decided to do whatever it takes from the administration and from the legal standpoint, that there are those who have been suspended, and they need to be removed. We're definitely not behind it, but we're following it to the end. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0242par0655	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0243par0656	Mr. President, what I'm referring to is a website on the stand. Mr. Aydın now comes out and makes a second mistake because of bullying. I'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0242par0657	For God's sake, look, it's been filed.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0243par0658	Now, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0242par0659	Now, look, I, uh, just a second...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0243par0660	Mr. President, a group of vice presidents has told the members of this House, the MPs, that they're going to take the reed and play it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0244par0661	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0243par0662	There's nothing more disrespectful than that.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0244par0663	Wait a minute... a bunch of vice presidents don't call you that, I didn't disrespect you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0243par0664	This language, according to the Civil Code, is not a clean language, Mr. President, and I have been very careful here, really, speaking.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0245par0665	Now, now... look, Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0246par0666	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0245par0667	Mr. Chandar, I mean, your name didn't come up or anything. What are you doing? I mean, it's like this, it's been a while, and you've been remembered...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0246par0668	Mr. President, look, Mr. Aydın did it himself, and then he made his own statement again.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0245par0669	And then he apologized.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0246par0670	I'm not saying he's mean, but look...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0245par0671	I mean, well, you're...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0246par0672	No, I'm not talking about politics.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0245par0673	No, what do you want to say? I don't understand him.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0246par0674	For the record, I don't want to talk about it, because it's not something to talk about. Mr. Aydın, I'm not saying that you're mean, but please, you're saying that it's language and you're saying, "Watch your language," but you're saying something that insults artists when you talk to them.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0247par0676	Mr. President, I just...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0246par0677	I'm the professional singer here.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0248par0679	Okay, it's on the record.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0249par0680	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit03spe0250par0682	Mr. Kaplan, I'm taking a break. There's no way I can pull this off. I'm asking you... Yeah, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0250par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 40th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue negotiations with the 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2011 Central Management Computation Bill. [[Continue]] 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency Central Management Budget for 2013 T) TÜRKEY KAMU BUILDING OF HOSTELS [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Institution Central Management Budget for 2013 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Budget for 2013 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Development Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Undersecretary of the State Planning Agency 1) Turkey Statistical Agency Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey Statistical Institution 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2013 Central Management Budget I) CONNECTION PROJECTION PROJECT CENTER OF CONNECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman of the 2013 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget 2013 Commission? Here. Government? Here. Congressmans, the talks on the 7th round are complete. Now we're going to question-answer. Mr. Erdogan, please.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0251par0046	Mr. President, thank you. My questions are for the Minister of Health. Minister, in your ten years of power, you have made no investment in Mugla. Mugla Sıtký Koçman University Medical School has been taking students for two years, but there is no research hospital. When will the research hospital be held? When will the 100-bed Medieca public hospital be held? When will the basement hospital be held? Do you have any work to do on the return of capital and family assistance to 4/CH personnel who work in your ministry's units? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0252par0051	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0253par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. My questions are for the Minister of Health. Mr. Secretary, will you have a study to reflect all return funds on their pensions, regardless of the distinction of health personnel? It's been on the agenda for a long time, but there's been no development. Another question is about the appointment of the Public Hospitals Association. How would you respond to the allegations that there has been serious staffing, which has been reflected in the press, without a merit and promotional exam? Are there any employees in the Ministry who make contracts to ensure that they get a higher salary? How many of the vice principals and vice principals have been assigned as researchers and have been deprived of their rights and have suffered economic losses? What duties will researchers perform in their institutions? My other question is, do you have a plan to make the pharmacists look like a staff grocery store with new legal regulations? Where is the 1,232-bed hospital that you claim will be built every year in Mersin? When will the production begin?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0254par0059	Dear Private...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0255par0060	Mr. Secretary, as I'm about to present to you in the envelope, I have prescription back printouts from patients who have been purchased from various pharmacies at various times and written in various hospitals about very simple treatments. Just to give you an example, while the state pays $21.79 for a prescription with a painkiller, a muscle relaxant tablet, and a muscle relaxant cream, the amount of medical care, the price difference, the part of drug participation, and the amount of prescription participation that needs to be paid is $31.12. So if the citizen didn't put it on his report card, he'd try to get it out of his pocket, 12 bucks would be cheaper. I know there's an arrangement with the Social Security Agency, but I also think the Health Minister should feel responsible at the point of access to health and access to medicine. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0254par0062	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0256par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Minister of Health. In addition to Article 663 of Decision 663, the 4th amendment has made researchers of vice principals and branch managers of the health department, whose salary is now between $2,076 and $2,300. In accordance with the 5th amendment to the same law, public hospital units were established and the assistant hospital managers and managers were also investigated; their salary is between $2,800 and $3,000. Again, integrated county hospitals are the first digits, but the principals continue, and they are paid between $3,600 and $4,000. Right now, your Ministry has three different-paying investigators. Do you find these different fees given to the same staff fair? Do you have any work to compensate for this injustice?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0254par0065	Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0257par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question is to the Minister of Development! Minister, during your speech, you talked about the gold's contribution to growth and the negative contribution due to the stocks. Can you give me any details on him? Thank you very much. And I have a question for the Minister of Health, Mr. President. Minister, during your speech -- you're a ten-year minister -- you showed confidence and then called yourself Chief of the Nationals and went into politics for no reason at all. There have been developments in health care during your time, but there have been significant developments in history, but not in health care, but only in terms of hotel services, not in real medical services. Do you have any information on this? Can you give me paintings, other than hotel services, about health care? Do our doctors do better health care than they did ten years ago? Can you give me some information on these, please? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0258par0075	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0259par0076	Mr. Secretary, with the newly released Metropolitan Law, there have been 16 and 13 newly added cities in all 19 cities. However, new districts have been established in these provinces. In which of the districts of Kazepe, Başiskele, Darica, Çaırova and Dilovai have been hospitalized in the new districts of the districts of Kopeli, which have previously been built and have been modeled today? If you didn't, when do you plan to do it? It's 1700 p.m. in Cartepe County. Is there an urgent and needed health care after 00? If not, how do you propose citizens receive these services? When are you going to start building the very old state hospital in Izmit County, which is on the agenda? What is the share and order in health investments of the province of Kopeli, which has contributed the most to Turkey's economy?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0260par0080	Your Highness...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0261par0081	Mr. Secretary, last year the Prime Minister's Full-Day Act was breached, and this year it's the same for your wife. First of all, I wish your wife well. Both the Prime Minister and your wife were operated on at the university hospital by private physicians who had to leave the hospitals where they worked for the full-time. The professor who performed this surgery said there was nothing ethically wrong with you, that the law doesn't matter in such cases. Of course, the Prime Minister of this country is important to his people, to his family, to all his loved ones, and I'm sure your wife is very dear to your family, to you. If you ask me, there's nothing more important to me than my sons. However, with the Full - Day Law, many families became sick and waited for surgery at the doors of the O.R. I'm sure they're the most precious of their families. Mr. Secretary, don't you think these two incidents are contrary to the Constitution's principle of equality? Mr. Professor, as the doctor says, in some cases in this country, doesn't the law matter? Shouldn't you be the first to follow the laws you make and are always proud of? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0262par0086	Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0263par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of Health: The Bursa Acemler has been in the press where two hospitals will be replaced by Central Command. Is there a deal with the Joint Chiefs? If so, what will the General Staff receive in exchange for the land? Will these hospitals be built? What kind of financing is it going to be? My second question, Mr. Minister, what will be the situation of the Lotus State Hospital on Fatih Sultan Mehmet Boulevard? Will he be part of the 2013 Investment Programme? My third question: Will the Ingegöl State Hospital and the Centre for Mouth and Dental Health be completed in 2013? Last question: there are significant increases in violence in health care institutions in Bursa. I'd like to know if you have any special precautions for the scholarship and your thoughts on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0264par0093	Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0265par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of Health, how much damage has the state suffered due to a swine flu vaccine imported and not used by your ministry? Is there any procedure for the responsible or is it being done? My second question is: The Simav State Hospital, which you evacuated after the earthquake in Simav, has not been booked for nearly two years. What will be the end of this hospital? Are you planning to build the hospital in its present location? Another question is: there have been debates about the place for the Kütahya State Hospital for ten years. What's the final point in this matter? My last question: why hasn't your Ministry ever allowed the 520-bed Center for Physical Treatment and Rehab, which was built two years ago at Dumlupınar University Central Campus? What's the outcome of this? And to the Minister of Development: I want an explanation of the status of development agencies and the status of the Victory Development Agency in recent years.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0266par0100	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0267par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to Mr. Health Minister. Minister, what is the outcome of this project, this hospital, which is supposed to be one of the 27 district hospitals that will be held in Turkey? What stage is the project at? First of all, this project was planned as a regional hospital, and then referred to as a city hospital. Is this gonna be a local hospital or a city hospital? That's my first question. My second question: when will this project be implemented? What's his current status? Or will this theme, which has been used as election material for three or four elections, be used in several more elections? Can you clarify this situation that undermines the credibility and credibility of the political institution? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0268par0106	Now, the questions are done. The rest of the questions, except for two questions, have been asked to the Minister of Health. Now, is two minutes enough for you, Mr. Yilmaz?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0269par0108	I'll try to get it together in two minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0268par0109	Okay. Then I'll make a promise to the Minister of Health first. Eight minutes for you, two for Mr. Yilmaz. Yes, please.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0270par0113	Dear President, thank you. Of course, as in many cities, we have invested ten years in our power. I'll present these in writing to our esteemed congressman, along with the amount we've spent. Meanwhile, we continue to work both in Centralca and in Bodrum, as well as in the city's research hospital. In particular, we have planned to build the educational research hospital on the campus of the university so that its funding can be provided by the Ministry of Health and our university can benefit from it. Like I said, we're still working on it. The issues related to return capital or family benefits to 4/C are currently being carried out according to the existing legislation. We don't have any serious 4/C/C staff in our ministry; we have more than 4/B/B/B or 4924. Mr. Oz had a question about the return of capital to pensions. In fact, there are no insurance cuts, not only in the Ministry of Health, but in public, under the name of payment, and they do not reflect on pensions. So that's the kind of debate that's started in public, as if this wasn't done in additional payments at the Ministry of Health, but it's done in other public employees. If this is to be discussed, it must be done for all public employees who receive additional payments. On the contrary, we're currently conducting studies on the return of additional payments to retirement to a certain amount of physicians in the Ministry of Health, but, as I said, the whole issue here is the common practice of public practice. In public hospital units, of course, we've appointed the new recruits according to their merits and licenses. But, my dear friends, there's no way that he could raise a staff here, or rather appoint an executive. Why? Because the postings of executives, the classic executive appointments, are all about the constant appointment of that manager to a certain staff. But public hospital troops don't have permanent management in their logic. We're throwing out executives for two years. We're setting them up with a strategy and a set of goals. They will continue to manage according to their achievements and performances within the framework of these goals. So the new method, in fact, is a very modern method that measures the performance and success of the manager, and in my opinion, our applications will show that this will be an example of the entire public administration in the future. I'll also pass on the issue of the number of investigative staff members to our esteemed congressman. I'm going to give the stage of the project on the 1,200-bed hospital in Mersin to our esteemed congressman in writing. I'd like Mr. Private to present to me the example he mentioned. However, along with prescription turnouts, you know, examination attendance shares are also taken in pharmacies. So let's assume that this citizen is being examined in a private hospital, including the number expressed by our esteemed congressman, the contribution of the citizen to a private hospital or private headquarters. So we can't move on one example. If he gives it to me, I'll look into it. As he himself said, this is the case of the Social Security Agency, the Department of Labor, but of course we work together. The question of Mr. Korkmaz's questions regarding the different rates of the researchers, if he pleases, I will do my research and give him the answer in writing. In the last ten years of the Ministry of Health, with the transformation of health, of course, there have been improvements on all the fronts of health, not hotel services. So today we're going to explain to our young in Turkey that our children are being vaccinated with 13 antigens, that these vaccines are the world's most advanced vaccines by hotelry? Or will we explain in a village, in a village, in the country, in the city, in the town, in the ambulance of a bleeding mother in a helicopter, or the removal of a citizen who requires an organ transplant in an ambulance and transplanting in an ambulance, and the number of transplanted citizens in the country, with hotel services? So, the Change in Health Program -- and I've expressed it in my speech -- is a very important transformation program that the whole world appreciates, and that's with all its outputs, financial outputs, medical outputs, service outputs, access to the service and rights outputs. It is one of the cities where we invest most in health in Turkey. We've built many hospitals. I'll also present to him the information on the counties expressed by our esteemed congressman.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0271par0127	That hospital was built in 1923, Mr. Secretary, not in your time.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0270par0128	It is certainly not the perforation of the Full - Day Law. Based on the answers asked by both the Social Security Agency and the Higher Education Agency in this regard, it's very easy to understand. Members of the faculty, who are in our universities as educators and have the right to work outside, are unable to perform direct revenue-producing procedures on their own. Therefore, it is not legal for them to participate in surgery or treatments that are being performed as a team and are responsible for a team. It's not just my interpretation, it's been asked by our universities, both by the NGO and Social Security Agency, and it's been made clear that this is the case. Therefore, there is no violation of the law. Since 57 applications have been submitted before, our universities have been informed that it is not illegal to set a precedent. For our big city hospital, which we're going to build in Bursa, you know, we've set up a place in the hay, and we've got projects here, and we've got contracts going on. Unfortunately, since the decision was made to stop the execution, we had to wait, but I'm hoping that we'll be able to get some of the land in Yunusian, some of the armed forces, and in fact, we've had our preliminary talks. If that happens, there'll be a better place for him.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0272par0131	There's a lotus, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0270par0132	A swine flu vaccine that wasn't used doesn't exist in Turkey, my dear MP. Turkey has used 3 million swine flu vaccines, and 3 million doses have been purchased along with the right to replace the antigen. We had 43 million doses of contact, but we only paid for 6 million doses. I'll make that a compromise. I'll answer the other questions in writing, and I'm out of time. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0273par0135	Minister, can you answer Elızýg?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0274par0136	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0275par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll try to answer in a little while. Let me tell you again, Mr. Kusoglu's question about the gold and growth relationship is that we have two types of domestic product computational computational computation. One is the way of production, one is an account of the value of domestic agriculture, industry, services, and the other is an informal domestic account of expenditures. That's where this foreign trade comes in, etcetera. As much as spending seems to affect growth in our account, the gold trade is our primary method of production. We're balancing the difference in the way we spend it, and we're constraining the effect of gold in this sense. So, basically, I can tell you that 2.6 percent of the growth in the first nine months, even if gold exports and imports were zero, it would almost happen at this rate, because the gold that's going on inside is involved in the added value growth. And we have a certain assumption there, that we grow beyond it -- like I said -- it's not because of the gold. He asked for information on the activities of the agencies, Mr. Light. So far, 20,000 projects have been submitted to agencies for 146 financial support programmes. We financed over 4,000 projects. In addition, 2,500 projects were offered direct operational and technical support, capacity developer support. We have a total of 810 million. We also offered guidance and information support to 16,000 investors in our investment support offices. We've conducted around 80,000 education and information activities in approximately 892 districts. I didn't quite get your question about the Victory Agency, so if you'll excuse me, we'll also answer it in writing.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit04spe0276par0143	Thank you. Now, I'm going to let you read separately and vote on the parting of the budgets in the 7th round, respectively: I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Health shall take part in the central management budget in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 62,247.200 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.859.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 2.424.102.450 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 2,490.208.650 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Health adopted parts of the central management budget in 2013. I submit to your votes that the health department's final account of central administration in 2011 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (A) C E T V E L [[TL]] Total allowance 17.907.031.638.74 Budget Expenses 17.231.337.492.27 Compensation Expenses 1,084,053,818,56 Canceled Fund 1,759,746,420,32 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 1,361,265,145,25 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. In 2011, the Ministry of Health approved parts of the central administration's final account. I submit to your votes that Turkey's General Health Directorate of Borders and Coasts will take part in the 2013 central management budget: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.19) TECHNICAN HUDUT AND AGREEMENT 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 10.047,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 19,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.755,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 115.390.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 127,211.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 01 Taxes 150,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 595,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 5.905,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 156,500,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained Turkey's General Health Directorate of Borders and Coasts was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of 2011, the Office of Health of Turkey's Borders and Coasts, shall be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... those who don't. 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total Payment 234,633,455,32 Budget Expenses 121,911,164,18 Canceled Fund 112,712,291,14 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 72,745,838.00 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Acquisition estimated 125,000,000.00 Net Collection 197,178,925,05 Ret and Returns 173,140,68 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Turkey's General Health Directorate of Borders and Coasts was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2011. I would like to submit to your votes that the Turkish Medicine and Medical Devices shall be transferred to the section of the 2013 central management budget: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.59) TÜRKEY MEDICINE AND TİBBI TERRIBLE PRODUCTION 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 50,561,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 336,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 28.311.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 79.208,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 59.494,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Earnings With Donations and Aids 19,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 714,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 79.208,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained Turkey's Medicine and Medical Device Agency adopted parts of the central management budget in 2013. I would like to submit to your votes that the Turkish Public Hospitals Association will take part in the central management budget in 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 15.75) THE BUILDING OF TURKEY CAMU HOSTELS 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Institution Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 20,419.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 8.099.403,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 8.119.822,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey's Public Hospitals Association has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Public Health Institution will be transferred to the central management budget in 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 15.76) BUILDING OF THE PEOPLE OF TURKEY 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 77,679.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 5.999.728,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 6,077,407,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget were adopted in 2013. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Development will take part in the central management budget in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 1,146,837,650 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 800,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 6,200,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 44,410.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 1,198,247,650 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Development was adopted in 2013 as part of the central management budget. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Department of Development in 2011 will take part in the final account of the central administration: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Development Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total Payment 442.148.196.00 Budget Expenses 407,478,026,66 Compromise Expenses 189,11 Cancelled Grant 34,670,358,45 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Development was adopted into parts of the central management account in 2011. Undersecretary of the State Planning Agency, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration of 2011 be transferred to its chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Undersecretary of the State Planning Agency (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total Payment 199,005,094.00 Budget Expenses 199,005,065,39 The grant goes to 2.95 A.M. Canceled Fund 31.56 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Undersecretary of the State Planning Agency was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the chairman of the Turkish Statistical Institution shall be transferred to the central management budget in 2013: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 32.75) THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTION 1) Turkey's Statistical Institution Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 238,619.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,116,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 10,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 239,745,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Turkish Statistical Institution was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Statistical Foundation President's Central Administration's final account in 2011 will be transferred to the chapters: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 251,887,000.00 Budget Expenses 199,285,403,85 Canceled Fund 52,601,596,15 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The head of Turkey's Statistical Institution was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the president of the GAP Regional Development Administration shall take part in the central management budget in 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.34) GAP CONTROL 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 4.443,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 92,068,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 96,511.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 04 Special Incomes 96,311.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 200,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained TOPLAM 96,511.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The GAP Regional Development Administration was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. I submit to your votes that the GAP Regional Development Administration's Central Administration account of 2011 will be transferred to its chapters: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 63,631.000.00 Budget Expenses 56.731.104.27 Emancipation Expenses 986,689,36 Canceled Fund 7.886.585.09 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 63,631.000.00 Net Collection 58.212.409.54 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The GAP Regional Development Administration was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the President of the Eastern Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration will be transferred to the central management budget in 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2013 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 23.737,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 23.737,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 23.732,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 5,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 23.737,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration's chairmanship was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Chairman of the District Development Administration will be transferred to the central management budget in 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.55) CONTROL PROJECT CONTROL CENTER 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman of the 2013 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 104,665,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 104,665,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 04 Special Incomes 104,660.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 5,000 TOPLAM 104,665,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The Coal Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Office of the District Development Administration of the Consolidated Plain Project will be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2011: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total Payment 1,240,000.00 Budget Expenses 320.816.96 Canceled Payment 919,183,04 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Net Collection 1,240,000.00 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Office of the District Development Administration was adopted as part of the central management account in 2011. I submit to your votes that the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman of the 2013 Central Management Budget will be transferred to the chapters of the Central Budget: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget 2013 [[TL]] 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 23.719.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 23,719000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 23,714,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 5,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 23,719000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. As such, the central management budgets of the Health Ministry, Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate, Development Ministry, Turkey's Statistical Agency, the Chairman of the GAP Regional Development Administration and the Office of the Council of Konya, the Central Management budgets of 2013, and the final account of the State Planning Agency for 2011, Turkey's Medicine and Medical Jihaz Foundation, Turkey's Public Hospitals institution, Turkey's Public Health Agency, the Chairman of the East Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration and the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration's Central Management budgets for 2013, and the final management account of the State Planning Agency for 2011. I wish them well. Congressmans, the 7th round of talks has been completed. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit05spe0276par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 40th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue negotiations with the 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2011 Central Management Computation Bill. Now, we'll begin the 8th round of talks. The Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, Forestry General Directorate, State Water Affairs General Directorate, Meteorology General Directorate budgets and final accounts include the Turkish Water Institute Budget and Foreign Trade Undersecretary, Export Development Centre, Environment and Forestry Ministry final accounts. [[Continue]] 1) Economy Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Undersecretary of Foreign Trade: Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Export Development Center 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks 2013 Central Management Budget 2) The Forest and Water Affairs Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The Ministry of Environment and Forests Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The Forest General Directorate's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Forest General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology: Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2013 Commission? Here. Government? Here. Members of parliament, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour can enter the system. In the eighth round, I read the names of the members who asked for the names of their groups and individuals: On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mersin MP Mr. Ertuğul Kürkcu, Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy, Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Denizli MP Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan, Sakarya MP Münir Kutluata, Adana MP Mr. Seyfetttin Yılmaz, Adana MP Muharrem Varlı. On behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Müslim Sarı, Bartın MP Mr Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya, Bolu MP Tanju Özcan, Çanakkale MP Ali Sarıbaş, Amassian MP Ramis Topal, İstanbul MP Melda Onur. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; on behalf of Sakarya MP Mr. Şaban Dhelli, Koniya MP Mr. Hüseyin Býnız, İstanbul MP Hüseyin Şahin, Karabük MP Mr. Osman Jatanci, Aydın MP Ali Gültekin Kılanç, Antalya MP Mr. Hüseyin Samani, Elazığ MP Mr. Faruk Septioğlu, Burdur MP Mr. Hasan Hami Yıldırım, Hatay MP Mr. Mehmet Öğurk, Konya MP Mr. Gülay Samancı. In favour of İstanbul MP Ahmet Berat Çonkar. The government. On behalf of his subjects, Istanbul MP Mr. Faik Tunay. First word on behalf of the groups, the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Congressman of Mersin, Mr. Ertugrul Kürkcu. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit05spe0277par0047	Mr. President, dear friends, today, before these budget talks, where the Ministry of Economics is being discussed, we have learned that Mr. Secretary had a heart condition yesterday. If only he hadn't been here, he'd be better off resting; stress might not be good for him. But, we're just saying, get well again. Now, there's no need to repeat it; it's a legal argument. Because of the matter of the Court's reports, we have expressed this view. By the way, of course, I'd like to ask the Republican People's Party. They said it was illegitimate, not just legally absent. And it's important for us to know what they're going to do with this budget. But, of course, there is a point in discussing the actions of the Ministry of Economics politically, because this is an assessment of the total economic activity in Turkey. In fact, even though the ministry is called the Ministry of Economics, we are dealing with an international trade ministry budget. It's hard to understand why it's called the Ministry of Economics, because the economy covers all relations -- decent and spiritual relations -- stemming from human productive activity, production, division, consumption and production activities. Whereas, here we are mostly discussing a ministry budget for foreign trade and foreign trade-axis activities. However, this budget approach has problems. We also understand that from the Minister's presentation of the Plan and Budget Commission. Because, in general, as we draw the world table, and in particular Turkey, we see that there is no mention of the great crisis that awaits the world and Turkey in this presentation in any way. In general, behind the budget of the Ministry of Economy or the economic approach of the Ministry of Economics, we have to separate Turkey from the global economic process and the crisis that covers the capitalist world on its own, as if it were perfect for time and space, as if it were the magnanimity of capitalism, which puts an extremely misleading picture in front of us. One is that we are the second fastest growing economy in Europe. That doesn't mean anything in terms of economic facts, because in general, the entire European economy, Western Europe, the United States, even China, is generally a decline in the world, when it's a downward trend, where it's going down, it doesn't tell us anything -- because it's a closed expression in itself -- but ultimately we have to tell the people that we're in a capitalist economy that's going down in a whole way. First of all, where's the global truth? Here: The United States is moving towards a recession of the world's largest economy in the next year -- in 2012 -- due to increased taxes and cuts in public spending. China is heading towards a severe decline, and there is a slowdown going deeper in G-20 countries called rising markets. Now, if that's true, it's impossible to imagine that Turkey would stay away from this trend. Second: In terms of Turkey's growth trends -- let's forget about the past -- the growth data of the first nine months showed that growth has remained at 2.6 per cent in these nine months. At the end of the warning by all serious economists, TÜİK also accepted the warning, and in fact, when these growth figures were purged from under it, it was not really like this, he said: "The impact of gold exports should be noted in the high rate contribution of net exports to annual growth." Now, of course, this may seem like a mystery to everyone, so what's going on? We're constantly exporting gold? In fact, it's very simple, because of the sanctions of the United States of America against Iran, Turkey is paying for natural gas, oil and oil products from Iran in gold, so it's not in dollars or dollars, it's in terms of money, it's in terms of assets, and it's in between gold. Thus, it seems that the money Turkey is paying Iran is an export pen, in exchange for the goods it imports. But all the economists who analyzed it -- by the way, TİK -- are actually showing that this number of development, this number of growth, is way behind. Of course, we are not happy that Turkey is not growing as shown. Why should we be happy that we didn't grow up when we could grow up? What concerns us is that instead of warning the people of the crisis, instead of warning the large poor people who will be the lowest of the crisis, as if there will be no crisis, Turkey will be tested by reality by a painting presented as if it were going to survive without a major setback. Now, the reflection of this, of course, will inevitably show itself with unemployment figures and expectations of unemployment. Gene insists that unemployment is passed by 8.4 per cent, and it is above the average of the European Union, and above 15 European countries, according to the picture the Ministry of Economy's budget offers us. This comparison, however, is not a comparison of the same kind. Turkey has a 50% turnout in the labour force today. So those who live in their homes, who don't look for work, who don't work when the working age has come, are 50 percent compared to those who work with them. In European Union countries, however, the participation in this labour force is 68 per cent. Thus, true unemployment in Turkey reaches 8.4 per cent, in fact 15 per cent, 16 per cent, if all are cleared. Now, in the face of all this, our Ministry of Economics is offering us two solutions. One is to expand employment with the National Employment Strategy, and to introduce a new incentive strategy for this employment. Now, when we look at this National Employment Strategy, we're scratching against the magic word: ▪ Flexibility. • What we call flexibility is actually polite to say whatever it is that the employer wants to say. The bosses will run the workers however they want. The bosses will pay whatever they want to pay, and guaranteed work, insured work will now become an exception in Turkey. Rental labor, loan labor; work through temporary, private employment offices, part-time work, sharing work, forced the same worker to work in multiple subcontractors, all of which are flexible. The removal of job security is one of the most important goals of the new National Employment Strategy. Here, the magic word is "responsibility." Participation, which is resistance to the employer's pressure. He will not resist, he will be soft, he will be weak, he will give, he will give, and he will be cleansed of the harshness of his heart. The hours will be early, but the delay of working hours will not be simultaneous with the reduction of the working hours, so the public sector will also be assigned to shift work, and the burden of severance will be lifted. The unions of the Turkish working class describe it as the biggest attack on labour in the history of the republic. Now, the unions are reading it not because they don't like pleasure or because they don't like work, but because they don't like to work, but because the wages and rights they've earned in exchange for unit-time work are going backwards in the real, real economy, and they're actually reading it as the unemployment of a large part of the working class. Now, there's also a regional reflection of this huge inequality. And he's trying to respond to this with a regional minimum wage approach, the National Employment Strategy. So in Turkey's 6th district, the fact that the minimum wage in the cities where the Kurds, which we call "Kurdistan" live mainly and live intensively, is really lower than the west of Turkey, results in the fact that the spending of the bosses in this area has increased the tax burden of work on the people of the economy, by the state, by your taxes, by yours, by the people of the economy, while the tax burden of the real taxpayers is increasing. Now, this is what he finds in the face of the crisis. Second, of course, the incentive system. I just said part of this incentive system. That incentive system is basically reaching this far, and I'll tell you: the $18 billion tax that should be taken from the capital is being waived, so that's 5 percent of the budget. In addition, 5.5 billion Turkish liras are being waived for a five-point discount on the employer's bonus. There is a 5 per cent subsidies for loan interest support, including 11 billion and 2.8 billion for SME support. With tax expenditures, it is equivalent to 11 per cent of the budget. The 2013 budget envisions the tax spending of 116 pencils at 22.4 billion. About 19 billion Turkish liras are nothing more than incentives for those who receive direct capital revenues, exceptions and exemptions from income and institutional taxes. Now, it means that our government, our Ministry of Economy, has found a solution to the crisis, to investigate the capital as best as possible, to protect it from the crisis, but to do so on the backs of the working class, the poor. Now, if that's what the Ministry of Economics is doing, it's doing its job. But the promise to the public is to increase the well-being of the people, to increase the income and prosperity of workers, and to keep Turkey unique in the developing economies. TİK data shows that none of this is real. In Turkey, 20 per cent of the population seizes 42 per cent of the income, while the remaining 60 per cent are divided by 80 per cent of the population. In fact, with thinner, more sensitive calculations, we can see that the first 5 percent of the population has seized a large part of that 40 percent. Now, this painting, in fact, corresponds to the distribution of developed economies such as Western Europe, the United States, as Turkey said it was going upside down, which is not like its own. It couldn't have been expected otherwise. However, because of the weakness of the economic level of development in Turkey, all of this is even more distorted. And while I'm at it, I'd like to say that if Turkey is going to live in capitalism, it can't wait for a fate that's different from the world's most advanced capitalist countries, for its own future. If another fate is waiting, then, above all, it is expected that, above all, capital sovereignty, the judge in Turkey will step out of relations, distribute them, set up a future for himself. Otherwise, the rest of you will be chatty. Advanced economies show their image to those who are further behind. As a country more backward than the European Union, Turkey will face all the challenges the European Union faces today. If he doesn't want to face it, he'll change his way of development and his way of saving. It's been called for decades, centuries, it's socialism. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Socialism will defeat capitalism. As long as we don't get rid of capitalism, there's no judgment on all these troubles, on all these crises.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit05spe0278par0066	Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit05spe0279par0068	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party on the budget bill for the 2013 Centre of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, in a country where the state does not value humans, other creatures, nature, and forests are not expected to be valued. In a country where people, children, are slaughtered collectively, nature will be slaughtered. When children are killed by bombs being dropped from fighter planes in Roboski, the same bombs being thrown out of the same fighter planes and helicopters, of course the forests are burned, and nature is destroyed. Unfortunately, the culture of democracy and human rights in Turkey has not developed, nor has its culture been developed enough to protect culture and nature. Turkey's wealth, which has a radical historical culture and natural potential, is being destroyed, looted by conscious and unconscious policies. The European countries allocate serious shares in their budgets for their project to protect history, culture and nature's assets. In this sense, serious campaigns are being carried out to raise awareness of the public, trainings are being given, but in Turkey, this consciousness and reflex is scarce. Let us not forget that the protection of these creatures and historical sites, which are the common heritage of all mankind, and the transfer of them to future generations, are primarily the common responsibility of states and mankind. Dear lawmakers, proof that Turkey does not care about the environment, historical structures and nature is the destruction of thousands of hectares of forests. In a period when environmental problems are dealing with every dimension, it is unacceptable for thousands of hectares of forest to be burned each year and some of it to be dedicated to tourist areas. Millions of trees, thousands of hectares of forests, are sacrificed only for golf courses, hotels, villas, cities, crazy projects and new roads. There's also the fact that because of the war and violence that's been going on for over a quarter of a century, the forests in Kurdish geography have been burned down, destroyed. Sadly, he was burned by soldiers who had taken thousands of hectares of forest, just because they were hiding among the PKK people, becoming more comfortable camouflaged. I've witnessed it myself in many places. In addition, millions of bombs, cannons and bullets thrown from the air and land have made the region barren, the mountains, the soil, the streams, poison, poison life to the living. I'm betting that if the bomb had been planted in the last 30 years, the number of bullets had been planted, there wouldn't have been a square square foot in Kurdish geography. Let alone Kurdish geography, and all Turkey would have no empty space. Dear MPs, Turkey has the capacity to own 80 per cent of the forest area. Sadly, only 27 percent of the country's land is now covered with forests. For a country's forests to be sufficient, 30 percent of that country must be covered with forests. Turkey, no doubt, is not in a very bad position from this point of view. However, given that about 80 percent of the existing forests are inefficient forests, this does not appear to be a positive picture. In his speech at the commission meeting, the minister boasted that the forest areas rose from 20.2 million hectares in 1972 to 21.66 million hectares in 2012. But we have to remind you that 40 years have passed, and the last ten years of this 40 years are their own time of power. Still, it's not right to talk about a real forest growth. For in the 1970s and 1980s, most of the need to burn like wood was provided from the forests. I think that in the last 20 years, alternative solutions would have to come out, and in comparison with technological advances, forest areas would have to find 50,000 hectares. Again, another thing the Minister boasts about is the successful results of forest fires. In response to a question motion, he said that between 2002-2011, during their rule, 19,739 forest fires occurred, resulting in 83,638 hectares of forest areas burning. How can it be seen as a success that about 20,000 forest fires occur in nine years and that about 84,000 hectares of forest are ashes as a result? Dear lawmakers, another important issue is the Law of 2/B. As it is known, there are about 7.8 million citizens living in forest villages. These citizens in the villages are one of the poorest in the social class. The forest is ranked last in the income distribution of peasants. There is no distinction between the current law and the poor forest peasant and the agricultural producers who operate on these areas and the wealthy who build luxury housing on these areas. This arrangement to determine the price of sale is not appropriate. A large number of citizens will soon become workers working on their own land -- best-case scenarios. The law is unfair because it puts everyone in the same position; it doesn't differ from those who build a factory in the forest, build a villa in the forest, build a resort on the edge of the forest, and provide enough income for their livelihood. Fifty-eight percent of forest villagers meet the need for firewood from the forest, 13 per cent earn their income from forestry, and 84 per cent of its income is very low. The total annual income of most forest villagers is around 2,000 Turkish liras. It would be unfair to compare them to the resort, as if they were equal to the hotel owners. In addition, direct sales will take place at more than 70 per cent of the value. Payments will be reduced by 20 per cent and 10% to those who pay half in advance, so those who have money will be rewarded with a 45 per cent reduction of the value. Dear lawmakers, in Turkey recently, another important incident of destruction and looting is taking place on the waters of the country. It has become forgotten or completely denied that the water of the country, which is intended to be made into a profitable meta by the government, is a vital entity and belongs to the public. Rivers that gave life to nature and human beings, underground waters, the Aquatic Rights Convention, and for forty-nine years, have been pursued into the private sector and sold in many places. It is clear today that global fast and capital groups are becoming increasingly aggressive, that water and nature are commercialized with different influences and are being tried to destroy them with mutual projects and works of interest. There are nearly 2,000 river-type HES projects planned by public and private sectors across Turkey. It is a pity that in 2023, such extensive and flammable effects, he is able to meet only 5 per cent of the demand for electricity. This is a very high price, given the damage done to the environment. The same hydropower plants and water rights are given to multinational companies, and not hundreds of people, but just a few people work in these companies, and those companies provide an unimaginable rate. Although there has not yet been enough awareness in our country, or not enough of our citizens' heavy daily problems, global warming, the destruction of forests, desertification, has become increasingly the world's agenda. In Bergama, in Fatsa, in Diyadin, in Artvin, private mining companies destroy nature where they search for mines, and poison clean water sources. While part of the valleys planned for the HES projects were declared a tourist zone, many of them were declared a SCE area and some were included in the national park. Over the past few years, Dersim has been threatened with the 85km long Munzur Valley, and its environment is destroyed by eight dams and hydropower plants. 13th District Attorney's office. His apartment and Ankara 8. Despite the ruling court's decision to abort and stop the execution, the work of 4 dams and 28 HES projects continues in Dersim, on the grounds that it is of superior public interest. In Turkey, a national park for the first time was decided to be the public benefit of the dam. No public benefit is greater than ecology, protection of nature. In addition, it is unacceptable for Hasankeyf, the most important witness and cultural heritage of Mesopotamian civilization to date, to be sacrificed to this policy. The Ilisu Dam and the 10,000-year-old cultural heritage, historically and culturally unappreciated, are wanted to drown in this artificial water. Valuable lawmakers, HES projects, are also used as a strategic weapon under the name of the AKP government as a strategic weapon to create an energy source beyond Fırat. The HES projects set up on rivers such as Dicle, Zap and Munzur, which are vital in agriculture and animalism in Kurdish geography, cleanse human geography. The HES project, which was thought to be built on Zap Water, and is still under construction, is a project aimed at separating the border between the Iraqi Fedre Kurdistan border and the Turkish border to the entrance of Kazan Valley. With the route here flooded, some villages of Çukurca will be cut off from northern Iraq. On this occasion, the evacuation of some villages in Zap Valley is clearly targeted. Just as in Munzur Valley, the state aims to empty villages that it has burned, destroyed, at gunpoint, by changing strategy, using rivers in the common use of man. After years of assimilation policies, the Kurds are the ones who want to be taken from their hands by weapons, tanks, bombs, their language, their culture, their identity, their land, their right to live. Of course, the same resistance against previous methods would be shown by the Kurds against the anti-humanization strategy to be implemented by the HES project. No one should have any doubts about that. Dear lawmakers, the other important issue is no doubt business accidents in the process of building HES projects. The number of workers who lost their lives in the construction site area has exceeded 300. That's a very sad and terrible number. Now, it's also a fact that this type of worker's murder is intentional. We don't want any more lives created by unsecured measures, unsafe working conditions. Political authorities are responsible for these deaths, sufferings because they are preparing and implementing these legal arrangements, these negotiations, these unsecured working relationships. It is also possible that these murders could be prevented by radical changes and cultural changes, like any other murder in our society. Mr. Secretary, we urge you to be more sensitive about this, you need to be more sensitive about HES construction. With these feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit05spe0280par0092	Mr. Nursel Aydoğan, Diyarbakır MP.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit05spe0281par0094	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as part of the budget bill of 2013, I have made a pledge on the budgets of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, the General Directorate of Meteorology and the Turkish Water Institute on behalf of our party. First of all, I salute you all with respect and love. And again, my dear Selma River, Gülseren Yıldırım, Faysal Sarıyıldıldı, and again Kemal Aktaş, İbrahim Ayhan, who was elected by a very high vote in the 2011 elections, who I thought were watching us at the beginning of the KCK operations in Turkey, who were not able to do their legislatures, who were not present in this hall with us, and who had always been a member of the Kurdish people's heart, and who had been chosen for 85,000 votes, and who had been elected, but who had been taken away from him as a member of parliament. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Dear lawmakers, the fact that water is the most basic requirement for human beings, although the water reserves in the world are dwindling day by day, increases the importance of water today in 2025, when one third of the world's population face severe water shortages. Therefore, determining governments' national and international water policies is more than a requirement, it is now mandatory. How the Turkish Water Institute, founded a year ago, will create a water management strategy is crucial. Dear lawmakers, the destruction of our forests, one of the greatest natural massacres in our country, is the consumption of both our air and water resources. While the air pollution has decreased from previous years -- especially in cities like Ankara where natural gas use has increased -- we now know that 10 percent of the causes of death are due to air pollution. The negative effects of air pollution are observed even in healthy people, but are particularly serious problems in children. This is also an indication of how dangerous the current policies have been to public health. Dear lawmakers, more than 473,000 hectares of forest lost every day due to the lack of necessary measures and the intentional forest fires and deforestation have been opened as part of 2/B instead of reforestation. We all know this law could lead to more forest looting. However, the 169th article of the Constitution states that new forests are raised instead of burning forests. However, the government has opened its vault and has provided substantial amounts of ground to some environments, by zoning areas that have lost the quality of the forest. If you're always bragging about 50 percent of the vote in 50 percent of the vote, I'd also like to point out that these circles have a significant share in the amount of money you're supplying. Again, the 169th Amendment of the Constitution states that the state makes the necessary laws and measures necessary to preserve the forests and expand the territories. Despite this clear ruling in the Constitution, during military operations, for the past 20 years, forests have been burned in Haqkari, Dersim, Şırnak, Ağrı, Mush, Diyarbakır, Kurdish geography. Only 60 percent of forested areas in Hakkari have been burned for this reason. In the past summer, security forces had also included the Turkish media in Cudi, despite the attempt by security forces to extinguish the fire by the local people as a result of the bombs fired by fighters in Şemdinli. It's not enough that the forest is burned out, but we're dealing with understanding and mentality that opposes putting out. I would also like to point out that the forest left over from the fire in the area has been allowed to be a hub for the rangers and other sections. As for the idea of narrowing, eliminating PKK's living spaces and destroying PKK, we would like to point out that you must abandon these policies that have been tried, unreachable and unproductive for over 20 years. Because you're destroying the country's greatest riches, as you can't get results. Not only are you destroying it, but you're committing a Constitutional crime, I'd like to remind you. The AKP government, which came to power in 2002, also embraced security policies, such as the previous governments, rather than solving the Kurdish problem in peaceful ways. We all know that some of the dams built in the area were built for security reasons. There has never been a security dam anywhere in the world today. The choice of a method that destroys our nature, polluts our waters, destroys our forests is not understood when there is a cost-free way to resolve the Kurdish problem. But it has to be known that the security dams, no matter what, will prevent the Kurds from fighting for freedom unless they seek the path to peace. The Kurdish people will have absolute rights and freedom sooner or later. Developments in the Middle East also increase the belief that all Middle Eastern peoples, not just Kurds, but all Middle Eastern peoples, will be completely liberated. While the people are liberated in the Middle East, the government's dirty policies against the liberation of the Syrian Kurds will not yield results, and the 21st century will be the century when the Kurds are liberated. Therefore, the dams, built and built for security purposes, will not contribute in any way to peace, resolution, democratisation. Because there is no safer way in the world than peace, my friends. Dear friends, hundreds of HES constructions continue on rivers and rivers, Turkey's largest wealth. Currently there are about 1,500 HES in Turkey, and around 200 HES per year. We're obviously curious as to where the government's love comes from. What is the source of the insistence of the HESF, which has caused a total natural slaughter, if it is not enough to meet even 5 per cent of the country's energy needs as it is now, to disrupt ecological life, to cause irreversible damage to people's habitats? Well, we all have to know that the big doors are now in Turkey. While everyone knows that CED reports are flying around, sold for thousands of dollars, the HES projects may be tried to sell as public interest, but now Turkey, especially environmentalists, is no longer buying them, friends. See, it is currently illegally handed over to the Energy Market Editing Board, which opens the way for publicisation in case of emergency in 1939 and can be obtained by the Council of Ministers' decision. In urban transformation projects, it is possible to use the disaster law to pass through parliament in the past few months for the immediate publicisation of HESEs, which we will face more frequently in the coming days. Again, CED reports for HES construction are no longer a problem for companies. Because companies are not made up of CED reports, but of CED reports to companies. It is also supported by the state that has moved people from their homes without the consent of the people who live in that settlement in the HES constructions, with the decision to quickly nationalize people who do not want to leave their village, their territory. Moreover, even though the initial investment cost was high, companies seem to have been forced into the HES-making race because the government guaranteed to buy energy. So, why are we against these HESEs? Members of the law, HESEs is another name for privatisation of water. WHAT frightens us is that water is controlled and rented to companies for forty-nine years. HES companies, which build dams on water basins, basically control the water. We are in favor of the life of participating and democratic practices against central water policies that advocate the privatisation of water resources and water services. That's what it's like to create politics for the public's benefit. We say that local governments should be authorized to generate electricity to run water facilities. We say that those who lack this opportunity should be given a reduction in the price of energy required for running water facilities. We say water basins should be determined and governed by natural boundaries, not by administrative and political boundaries. Basin management and planning should be created in an ecological integrity, considering the environmental, social, economic dimensions of water resources. We say that local governments in the water basins should be able to form troops for the basin management. Dear lawmakers, water is described as a natural resource that can't be replaced by anything else. Water, an important part of life and ecosystem, meets the most basic needs of man, but is the main elements of agriculture and industry. Therefore, the question of who will run the water supply is crucial. The management of a source that affects many sectors on a primary level is highly strategic. Therefore, water resources must be managed in a way that guarantees ecological solutions, not in terms of market economic solutions. First of all, water is public property, so it can't be used as private property. The international document, which is the largest definition of water rights, is the European Committee for Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of the United Nations, published on 26 November 2012. According to the United Nations, everyone has access to sufficient, safe, physically accessible and affordable water, ▪ It is said that no family can generate more than 2 per cent of its income. Although the state's obligation to water rights is not fully defined, the state is responsible for providing safe, accessible water for water rights. The state is obliged to provide safe and healthy water for all parts of society. On January 3, 1976, Turkey signed the contract on August 15, 2000, and on June 4, 2003, it adopted it at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In 2010, the United Nations General Assembly acknowledged that access to safe and clean drinking water and violence is a basic human right to benefit from life and human rights to the end. This clause has been adopted by 42 abstentions in exchange for 124 countries' yes vote, and Turkey is among those abstentional votes, my dear friends. However, let us state immediately that the 90th article of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey is under the law of international agreements enforced according to the law. International contract provisions are based on conflicts that may arise due to different provisions of fundamental rights and freedoms such as water rights. In other words, Turkey will eventually have to sign this agreement. Dear friends, there are constitutions in the world that recognize water rights. In 2004, a constitutional amendment was made on water with the referendum in Uruguay. In the new constitution, water is an essential asset to life and access to drinkable water and sewers is a basic human right. Think about it. In 2009, a clause was added to the new Bolivian Constitution. Each person must have the equivalent of universal drinkable water services. Water and cleansing are human rights, privilege and privatisation are unacceptable. This is also necessary in the constitution of a state claiming to be a democratic and social law state. As the Peace and Democracy Party, on the basis of democratic autonomy, we move forward in a gender liberal and ecological political line, making all our policies in this parallel. We've been saying on every platform from the very beginning that we have a democratic, libertarian, egalitarian constitutional demand that all individuals and people take advantage of human rights and freedoms in international standards. In this context, we believe that the new constitution should be written with an ecological approach, not just with humans, but with the existence of all living things in the world. Each individual and the living have the right to access water of sufficient quantity and quality. This right, like the basic human rights, must be seen among natural rights. The right to access clean and quality water must be included in the basic duties of the state and secured constitutionally. That's the whole point of being a social government, dear friends. Dear lawmakers, we have also faced serious problems with drinking water. Today, due to the decline of the quality of network water, as well as the deliberate negative speculation of network water in very large cities such as Istanbul, Ankara, the public has to buy bottled water because it cannot drink water flowing from the taps. Thus, the people were condemned and condemned to fill the water companies' vaults. Already, more than 20 dignitaries and foreign capitals are doing their water-botttling at Uludağ National Park. As a result of the government's neoliberal policies, the public's available drinking water is continued by pursuing domestic and foreign capital. Now, today, it's time to call this policy a halt, dear friends. Dear friends, at the World Water Forum held in Istanbul in 2009, after announcing that waste is essential for future drinkable, clean, fresh, fresh water and breathable air, we continue with this awareness, without slowing down our efforts to use our water resources in a much more efficient way. So we ask the Prime Minister, we say, is what you do without slowing down, is you start construction of the Ilisu Dam in Hasankeyf, and you bury thousands of years of history in the water? Is what you do without slowing down is run policies that consume the country's water supply? Is it cruel to allow dozens of HES constructions in Munzur? Again, is what you do without slowing down, slaughtering nature and building dams for safety at border length? Of course, one important thing is our international waters, dear friends. Today, there are hundreds of HES and constructions on the Tigris and Fırat. And let us not forget that the HESEs built on the Tigris and Fırat are taking away the rights of other countries to reach this water supply that will use these waters with us. As we know, thousands of years ago, before the borders were drawn, these streams of water were here, and we think it's not right to claim more rights than the people who used that water on water sources that occurred thousands of years before the borders were drawn. In short, the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs said in a speech, "The Water sleeps, the Turk looks." We want to tell Mr. Minister that water sleeps, Turkish takes care of it. We want to say that his policy has brought us to this point. We don't think the water sleeps, the Turk looks. We think the policy that people say about water should be followed, not followed. We think the policy that people say about water should be followed. On behalf of my party, I'd like to salute you all again with these thoughts and feelings. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit05spe0282par0122	Thank you. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0282par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 40th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue negotiations with the 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2011 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? Here. Government? Here. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan is now in charge of the 8th round of talks. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0283par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised to present the views of the National Party of Action on the budget of the Ministry of Economics in 2013 and on the final account of the Foreign Trade Undersecretary. I hereby salute your high council. No one in the world is alone, and we are not alone. Therefore, the developments in foreign trade are not independent of the political relations established by countries and foreign policy. Given the world's progress in this regard, foreign trade and foreign direct capital entry have increased at a higher rate over the past 30 years compared to the growth of production worldwide. In this period, the amount has increased by 2.6 per cent year-on-year, while the world's goods trade has increased by 7.3 per cent. In particular, the increase in exports of manufacturing products has been effective by an average of 8.4 per cent annually. At the same time, foreign direct capital entries worldwide increased by around 15 per cent year-on-year between 1982 and 2007. At the same time, the sales and exports of direct foreign capital units worldwide increased at a high rate of 10.2 per cent and 8.8% per year, respectively. World exports increased from $2 trillion in 1980 to $14 trillion in 2010. Between 1990 and 2010, the share of developed economies in exports of the world has been reduced, while the share of rising and developing countries has increased. The ministry website has an export strategy and a foreign trade expectation survey with its action plan in June. Turkish brands are being created, export markets are diversified, new investment incentives are being implemented; exports are increasing as a result, and the current is being tried and regressed. However, the first 1,000 exporters' share of exports is 64 per cent, so the COBIs are still unable to become manufacturers, exporters. Our total exporter number is 50,000. There are only 39 companies exporting over $1 billion. The number of countries we exported over $1 billion is 32. In this case, exporting to more than 230 kilometers of the country or customs area does not show the diversity of countries. The number of exports over $1 billion is 31. This suggests that product diversity has not reached the desired level. On the other hand, when we review the results of the 2012 foreign trade expectation survey, we see that the problems of sectors that existed ten years ago continue today. 66% of exporters still say energy costs are high. 60 per cent say logistical costs are high. Although the impact of imports on the current deficit is partially diminishing, the reasons for imports do not change. The lack of domestic production is 47.5 per cent in terms of imports, the lack of domestic production is 42 per cent, the higher domestic prices are 37 per cent, and the lack of domestic quality is 34 per cent. These are the most important reasons for importing. So what problem did the AKP solve? The problems of the firms that have existed in the past continue. These are lack of funding, high costs, competitive pricing, not being able to do enough market research, I'm not giving them the numbers, but the weight is here -- not being able to set up enough distribution networks. More than that, the Council of Ministers' decision is very detailed in addition to the programme. I've been reminiscing about it over and over from this bench. All these problems are an indicator. So, what's the sign of? It's a sign that we still have a problem with production. The problem with production is that your ability to innovate is also low. When you can't innovate, your added value increases don't happen. We're number 29 in the European Innovation Index. As a result, your competition is not expanding, so your competitiveness is not increasing. Mr. President, good lawmakers, while economic growth in Turkey is slowing down, industrial production is a significant issue at a rate that exceeds expectations. Turkey is under pressure to grow. It is also evident that the domestic demand can't be cut down, and exports can't be increased and balanced, and soft landing can't be achieved. Mr. Secretary, it is possible to present your witness's remarks about the Central Bank as a witness. You know what all this is about? Investment, production, production is the result of structural degradation in the export chain, which has increased and reached the height of our country's AKP power during your time in power. See, in 2011, 28 per cent of imports were expressed in a loud voice that 72 per cent of imports were directed towards internal consumption. In fact, Mr. Minister, at your press conference on imports, we understand from here that Turkish industry uses its intermediary and investment goods imports mainly to the domestic market. The developments in our country's foreign trade after the crisis are higher than the average for foreign trade developments in the world. I'm grateful for the increase in exports, which you've done very well, very well in advertising, along with the record-breaking imports, current transactions, and foreign trade deficits. Look, watch out for your foreign trade. The AKP is still in power to be the midwife to independent Kurdistan. Be careful of exports, trades in the southeast. Any fugitives in the internal processing regime? Look, because of your policies, your Energy Minister can't get into Iraq. In fact, it was included in the press and statements that were blocked by the United States of America. Isn't the economic plague of Syrian politics a loss of trade? The rumor about olive oil alone has even caused the Aegean Exporters to panic. What did they do? They must have had to explain. Let's say gold exports are acceptable, let's not argue, but given the fact that international market and economic actors are not sustainable, the continuity of forward exports is not possible. As Mr. Babacan said, this gold business is not exports, it is not a payment tool. On the other hand, the golden days are already coming to an end, both in our social lives, in sociological terms, among the ladies, in terms of revenue distribution, and in terms of exports. Mr. President, members of parliament, during the AKP period, the current price has exceeded $300 billion, and the foreign trade deficit is around $500 billion at current prices. The Republic of Turkey, what happened to its economy with its citizens? It's been moved, I say it everywhere. Cari is falling, not as expected; the budget deficit has started to increase; the economy has started to increase; the economy has started to increase 2 deficits; its need for external financing is not reducing as it wants; domestic financing is increasing; demand-restraint policies in the economy in 2012 did not yield; consumption and investment spending narrowed down; consumption and investment imports have declined; for a long time, the growth rate of growth has fallen; financing dynamics are not functioning, even destroying itself; industrial production -- your own space -- has been paralyzed. Now, since the Midterm Program targets are out of date... you were supposed to take them off on October 9th, if only you'd taken them off after the 1st of the month, which was no surprise. I'm saying this for the government, it has nothing to do with your Grace. The economy is parallel to politics. Look, you've had a press conference on imports, you've shown sensitivity, it's really admirable behavior. But you say you arrived late at the number of imports. But as you've been tracking exports, the people here know that customs monitors imports on a daily basis. So what they're saying is not true. But he's collecting customs. As exports increased, something else happened in Turkey: the number of executive agencies in cities such as Denizli, where exports have increased, has unfortunately increased from two to nine. Now, you have to make good use of that, too. At 21.9% in 1999, the gross share of the manufacturing industry is down to 15 to 16 per cent in your time. There's no way to tell if that's a good thing. Look, Minister, you know the industry well. Back in the day, the bad check was unusual, and now the mutual check is out of the ordinary. Bank ads have reached the height of creativity in these matters. People are subletting their consciousness. The Prime Minister gives us an example of Dutch imports, but he doesn't provide an example of exports. He talked about it on this stand, and I wish he'd said that. Now, Mr. Minister, the jewelers came to me and said, "Go to the opposition, if the opposition supports this, you'll get the law..." What's the deal? It's very clear. They're going to export, and the TVT tax for imported gems is 20 percent, but if you import a ring that's made of stone, the VAT will be 18. So let's figure this out, and let's think about this sector -- the trouble in Belgium, the trouble in Israel -- let's make a very important potential and export $10 billion. Why did you come to us? Why doesn't power do it? I told him we'd help him. But last time, what did Mr. Prime Minister do because of his gold research, because it caused the loss of the vote of 1.5 per cent and 2 per cent AKP? They've given up. Mr. Secretary, bring it in, I said: is he asking the opposition at 4+4? Did I ask the opposition about anything else? I asked the Treasury Ministry, the bureaucrats. They're solving the incident with a sentence, but the power is to bring it down to the opposition... Look, it doesn't solve the jewelers' problem. I'm asking you in particular. Solve their problems. There's no way you're going to put this in trouble because I'm going to get a point two points. In fact, they're a mess. They'll create jobs, they'll bring money to the country. The AKP is officially in the way. I need to be very clear about this. Minister, one thing I admire about you is that you listen to the opposition, you don't talk about imports. You mentioned it, it's a long explanation. I made it very clear in the General Assembly of TİM. I used your numbers, but what did the AKP minister who spoke after me do? This one uses the figures in Haluk Ayhan DPT. I mean, I told him here, where you're sitting. Elifi's gonna think it's a merch. He's a man who doesn't understand, who doesn't know what he's doing, and that's what he's saying now. Really, Minister, what do you have to do? You need to fix the imbalances within the government. Loud and clear, what needs to be done? It has to be explained. Now, what did we do last year for $65 billion, 10 months? Cari had an opening. The net external source entry was $57.5 billion, economic growth was 8.7. This year, the current transactions are down, the net external source entry is the same, but you know what it says? The difference between growth performances in the two years of the same level of net source entry is amazing. The same amount of foreign financing comes in, the same amount of funding comes in; imagine, the current account deficit drops to 20 billion dollars, and your growth falls from 8.5 to 2.5. How does an economist make sense of that? No AKP people can explain it. Mr. President, thank you. I'm not done talking, and I'm not up to budget figures, but I wish you good luck again, and I salute your grand delegation again.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0284par0035	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Mr. Münir Kutluata of Sakarya.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0285par0038	Mr. President, Congressmans, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the basis of the budget of the Ministry of Economics. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, starting with the arrival of the 2013 budget in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we continue to explain our views on the budget as the National Movement Party on various grounds and on this ground, and try to enlighten the public. I'd like to focus on the situation of the economy, which is based on the budget in my speech today. I think we should take a look at the painting first, put this painting out there. Very briefly, let's look at Turkey's debt tables in ten years. The total foreign debt rose from 123 billion dollars to 323 billion dollars, reaching 2.5 times that. Total domestic debt rose from 155 billion Turkish liras to 395 billion Turkish liras, reaching a little over 2.5 times that. Turkey's in-house debt rose from $216 billion to $544 billion, and it was a little over 2.5 times that. The private sector's foreign debt has increased from 43 billion dollars to 212 billion dollars, which is close to five times that. Cari was open between 1923 and 2002 and 2002 billion dollars in 80 years, but between 2002 and 2012 was $335 billion in the 10th year of AKP power. $42, $335 billion in ten years in 80 years, as of today, as of last month. So, despite the time difference, there's been an eight-fold increase. The consumer debt rose from 6.7 billion Turkish liras in 2002 to 284 billion dollars in 2012. This means that the debt of the household is increased from 4 per cent to 48 per cent. The additional $328 billion debt burden that the economy has been placed under has been reduced to 1.6 per cent in the third quarter in 2011, despite the current account deficits, which have won 1.8 billion in the world, and the growth rate of 8.5 per cent in 2011 has been reduced to 1.6 per cent in the third quarter. When we remove it from season and calendar effect, it reaches a level of 0.2%, which shows that the growth rate in Turkey has come to a standstill. Everyone knows that in developing countries such as Turkey, the growth rate around 2% is the sign of a recession if a few quarters continue. Before, we were growing up in the explanation of Cari. Now explain the current and it turns out that it's not fascinating. Why growth has fallen, if you look at it: one reason is the narrowing of the external markets, and the power often says that, but one of the main reasons is that internal consumption has stopped. The citizen has no income, no savings, no spending power because the household has been made to spend today's revenues from yesterday. How will the economy take action again? Everyone thinks, and so does the government, but the government's explanation is remarkable. The government's statement came from Mr. Finance Minister. Mr. Minister says that we rely on the solid structure of banks and the potential of debt of citizens to revitalize growth. My production will increase, and the household income will be restored, and the consumer will spend its own income, as you may have noticed. Thus, both the coming, the falling, the falling recession point is dangerous, and the government's explanation gives no hope. When we look at the debt situation of the household, it is said that the savings of the household in Turkey are 12 per cent. This was the number of 2007, with 12.2%. In 2011, Turkey's household average savings dropped to 7.5 per cent. That means the household's expendable income and the consumption of households are close together, so it has to consume 92.5 percent. In such an environment, we need to accept that growth cannot be revived by the spending of households, and we need to see, we need to know. Another traumatic aspect of Turkish household debt is that poor people's debt is too high. The 60 per cent of the poorer population has high household debt, up to 80 per cent of the fourth percent of the population, or less or less than 80 per cent or less than 80 per cent of the debt. In this case, we see that the health structure of the Turkish community is corrupting the spirit structure. I just want to give an example of Sakarya, but the situation across the country is even worse. The number of executive agencies in Sakarya, which previously had two executive offices, has increased to 6, after 2006. There are 130,000 executive files in the district of 860,000 inhabitants. Almost every household has a file of execution. On the other hand, unfortunately, 24 of our citizens have lost their lives and 64 have been injured in the attacks of 66 conflicts from 2012 to today. The government, of course, is responsible for this departure because the numbers are increasing every day, but there's no work being done to eliminate their cause or mitigate its consequences. The government sees these debts less, tries to increase them and encourage them, but its reason is that the national rate of debt in the developed countries is much higher. In developed countries, household debt is mostly made for investment, in Turkey, for the debt of households, or citizens, to survive, we think we should separate it from each other. How did it get to this point? Now, I'd like to make contact with this, dear lawmakers. 335 billion dollars came to this point with a clear bill. Before that power, Turkey was around a half-billion years old in Turkey, with 525 million figures, while it averaged $35.5 billion a year during the ruling period. It was half a billion dollars because there was only $626 million in 2002, the current deficit of Turkey. The simplest rule in the economy is that consumption demand increases production. Increased production will increase revenues, and save opportunities and demand for consumption will grow again. This additional demand is covered by the turning of these savings into investments, and the economy is both growing and improving. This is very important, and the critical point is that within the system, lawmakers: this government has set up the process of transforming demand into production and has led the demand to the production of foreign countries. That's the essence of import-based growth policies, that's what it is. So the flow of water has been forced to change, and the Turkish economy has been barren. The economy's rules, the nature of things, the fact that everything we produce, everything we don't produce, has been imported, causing structural disorders in the economy's production system. I'd like to give you an example in this respect: Now, in 2002, 5.1 percent of exports were based on high-tech products, while the amount fell from 3.5 to 2.8 in exports. In 2002, the production of products produced with six medium technologies increased from 26 per cent to 30 per cent, while exports increased from 22 per cent to 36 per cent, so it increased by 50 per cent. Now, we congratulate Mr. Minister and our exporters, who say they're trying to increase exports by moving around the world a lot, by trying so hard, by diversifying markets, by going around the world, but come on, what they're doing is dealing with the sale of the goods. However, he knows, he says, and we argue all the time, that the straight-up in Turkey is based on the production and export of high-end products. In that sense, in Turkey, the industry's structure has improved, let alone improved, it has increased, it needs to be taken care of. In that sense, it has to be known that in order to exist in the world, in the world markets, new products must be produced to protect your own markets under competition. However, new products are produced with new technologies and new information; there is no way out of Turkey unless you create and develop this spiral. The Minister also knows this, and the Ministry knows that they often express and complain about the production structure. Congressmans, because the deadline is limited, I'd like to make a few final points: one of them is to clarify a couple of issues that we don't understand. One of them is the valued lawmakers: Turkey had 8.5 per cent growth in 2011, 9.8 unemployment. Growth has dropped to 2.6 in three quarters, and unemployment has dropped to 8.8, and there is not much of an environment where growth has dropped rapidly and unemployment has fallen. We think it's a great benefit to explain how this happened during this period of power. Another point, Mr. Prime Minister, on this bench, expressed in the opening statement of the budget, is the issue of a national income account per capita in Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's a mistake here, there's a misdirection, there's a misusing. Now, the power itself says that average growth during this ruling period is 5%, and we agree that all resources and all studies in Turkey show that. Growth from 5 per cent in 10 years will grow by 50%; if it is cumulative, you can get a little bit more because it's a little bit more cumulative. So how come the national income was 3,492 in 2002, and we raised it to 10,873? Growth of about 50% is a national income that folds up to three. 205 percent is a number of growths... how does that work? Again, the Ministry of Development declares the answer in columns next to the same column at fixed prices in 1988. According to these fixed and real prices, $4,225 per fert in Turkey in 2002 has increased by $6,089 for the end of 2012 today, so only 43 per cent. Yes, we can accept more than 50 per cent. We said, if you take the population increase, the income per fert has only increased by 43 per cent. How is it that we've doubled it to three in the morning and in the evening, and that's why it's being used in public? Using it, we have no way of preventing it or doing anything. But this shows that when it's often used by those of the most competent mouths who are involved in economics, in Turkey, something in the economy doesn't go well...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0286par0052	Mr. Secretary doesn't use it, does he, Hajji? We've tripled it. It doesn't say.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0285par0053	...and the issue is that he needs to take refuge in those numbers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're out of time. Sir, I thank you all, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0287par0057	Thank you. Adana MP Seyfettin Yilmaz. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0288par0061	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the MHP Group on the budget of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs and the Director-General of the Forest. I salute you all. First of all, the forest fire season ended a month ago. Indeed, the Turkish forestman has done self - sacrificing work in the fight against forest fires over the past years, and has done some very serious, selfless work this year. I thank all the forest workers from here for their selfless work. I would also like to remind the minister that, you know, in the fight against these forest fires, the forest service has actually martyred close to 108. In these, the forest district managers, forest managers, forest engineers, forest conservation officer, workers, forest rangers who have worked with sacrifice to the arazis drivers, have been martyred, and I have a special blessing to ask the Minister: Look, in 2007, some of the forest workers were put on staff, and half of them were not elected. These include ten, fifteen, twenty years of workers working in forest fields in these fires. Between the lips of the executives at the time, they said, "Let's give staff to the staff for six months." But you put them to work, and they didn't work? They've all worked. Now, from here, to fight forest fires and other forestry activities, we need to get these workers on staff, and I want to make it very clear. Again, I'd like to point out that half the forests of Turkey are corrupt forests, which need rehabilitated forests, and we have about 5 million hectares of young forests, and we have a lot of forest engineers who have finished their studies, Mr. Secretary. This requires maintenance of around 1,200,000 hectares of young areas each year, and it is very important that the rehabilitation areas be made by forestmen who perform technical properties and are trained. So even if you don't even agree to meet with forest engineers, even if you ignore the Forest Engineers' Chamber, the forest engineers, you have an obligation to buy forest engineers for the future of this profession as soon as possible, and I want to make it very clear. Dear lawmakers, indeed, the forest service has been one of Turkey's most radical institutions for nearly a hundred and seventy-three years. During this period of time, our radical organization has been able to do great work with knowledge, experience, experience, memory. Now, with the numbers that will soon come out and brag again, that's because of this savings, but unfortunately, Mr. Secretary runs the Ministry of the Forest with an understanding that ignores the knowledge, the experience of a hundred and seventy-three years. That's because he's a teacher, we don't say anything about teaching, but the ministry is different, the university teacher is different. He still sees this place as a university, and he sees his employees as a student, and when he works with bureaucrats who write poetry, he gets the illusion and perception that the history of forestry began with him. This is all wrong. Now, we're going to see that many of the projects that he's brought in are connected to them. It started in my day, we started it first. All of it was done by the Turkish forestman for 50 years, 60 years, 80 years, and brought it to this day. Mr. Secretary, after coming to the Ministry, look, he has corrupted the structure of such an old and solid ministry. First the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, no, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. He shuts down the headquarters, shuts down the district managers, opens up the business managers, closes them down, so how can I destroy a ministry with this many hundred and seventy-three years of experience? I mean, I'd understand if there was a logical reason for his work. The environment has shut down the forest county offices; see, the environment has closed down the forest county offices. We're very proud of the Department of Forestification and Erosion, but in 1995, the Code 4122 was passed by the National Law on Forestification and Expedition. It's not like it's 2008-2012. He shut down the ORCY General Manager, who said: "The forest headquarters is the main roof of forestry, which is a hundred and seventy-three years of tradition." Well, we understand that, and then you shut them down in 17-18 places, and then you form the department's district manager's office or regional parks district manager. If you love God, can you explain to me one right reason for God's sake? If you're going to continue with this structure, then you should have tied them up in the wooding, in the ORCY, the experienced people who grew up around here -- now that you've shut them down, most of them haven't been in the institution, most of them have stayed in their places. Right now, no one of our chefs -- I assure you -- wants to be head of the forest business. ORKOKs face many difficulties with their accumulated loans, workloads, workloads. I'm telling you, I'm always proud of the forest rangers, I'm proud of the forest rangers, the minister who said, "The previous fire has removed its overtime, I've just told you, the fire has lifted its overtime, but now I'm asking you: there's no forest man, there's no forest engineer, there's no forest ranger, there's no forest ranger, there's no forest worker, there's no forest worker." I asked him in person: he's getting the chief of staff of chief of staff for strategy development and his salary; what is it? 6,400 additional indicators, the gentleman's been working hard. Yeah, forest engineers, forest workers, forest rangers are in a fire for three days, four days, and none of them are leaving the field, including the weekend. Not while they're working so hard, but get the chief of staff something special. Put your advisor in charge of the department, appoint him as counsel, bring him there. After that, bring the congressman who lost in Afyon to counsel, bring the mayor, put the MPs' son on the staff from the chief of staff. I'll tell my master, his followers, his relatives, take them from there, but they don't exist... now, it's too short for me. Look, let me put it this way, Mr. Secretary, I've made a lot of allegations in the gene, and he hasn't responded to any of them. I was still saying that he didn't respond to our claims here, but he fulfilled them. He continues to work with the staff, with the administration signed in a ten-million-dollar embezzlement at the Ministry of Forestry. I haven't made any claims about the Çanakkale Design Centre, I haven't made many claims. But the next thing I know, it's a huge advertising campaign. At 12/12/2012, he launches a campaign called 112 Giant Arts. He puts pages and pages of ads on the back of newspapers, all over the papers, all over the newspapers. He's not even satisfied, he's in Digiturk, he's advertising Super League games, he's renting billboards. Look, in this snow, he brings men from Kayseri, Kastamon, Erzincan, Erzurum, Balıkesir to this meeting in Ankara in the winter. It's the obligation to bring it to everyone who works at the ministry. What's the point of bringing those workers here in the winter in the snow? Now, I'm going to ask you, do you know what's in 112? There's fire ponds, fire pools. I've been the director of the forest district. In Adana, in Antalya, in Mersin, in Mugla, we have opened up about 500 pools, we have pooled in the campaign. Do you know how much these cost? With the old money, it cost 3 billion, 6 billion, 7 billion, 10 billion. And Mr. Secretary is making the Prime Minister open these. Now, if Mr. Prime Minister says, "What about Veysel Hodja, let me see your pool with that fire pond we opened? What do you really want to open with 6 billion investments, 10 billion investments?" Look, the forest road opened up in this thing. You'd think there'd be double roads, sir, highways, asphalts. Yeah, well, that's what we're supposed to do. The woodsmen watching me and the bureaucrats sitting behind you all know it. We make these forest roads every year with our own dozers and contracts. In the 1980s, in the 90s, the Forest General Directorate made the amount of road made in your ministry within a year. Do you know how far these roads go? Two, three, five, 10km of forest-based, trees-based roads based on production. So it's a stable way. He's got his thing here. Now, if Mr. Prime Minister says, "Mr. Secretary, you've given us a lot of roads, you've opened a pool, you've opened a pond. Let's see if we've actually opened these." Now, why do you have a hard time completing it to 112? He's been given the gene, and now there's some trouble, Mr. Secretary said he'd be opening with a little dignity, and he saw it. Now, look, in the case of Agaoğlu, the reason for canceling in 2010... Agaoğlu took over in 2010. Now, he says: I canceled it because of something. Where have you been since 2010, Mr. Secretary? If it weren't for the geneorization and the pressure of the public... its development plans were approved by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Don't let the same trouble be in the Parkwoods now. Look, how much did the Parkwoods cost last year?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0289par0077	Ask him if anyone has bought a villa from Agaoğlu.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0288par0078	Let me also point out that there are a lot of allegations, but I'm hoping that he'll answer to the second gene, Mr. Secretary. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0290par0081	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Adana MP Muharrem Varlı.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0291par0084	Mr. President, I've been promised the budgets of the State Water Affairs General Directorate, Meteorology General Directorate, Water Ethics General Directorate. On this occasion, I salute you all. Of course, I don't want to say too much about the meteorological General Directorate. There's only one matter of transfer, Mr. Secretary. I don't know if the General Manager is here, but a friend of ours, Sebahin Ahmetoglu, worked as a technician in the Executive Office of Financial Affairs in Ankara, while his wife, Pursaklar, was a teacher in Eskişehir III. He's been assigned to the District Department. What's this about a transfer? I have information on that, too. Please, we'd appreciate it if you'd ask Mr. General Manager about this and inform us here. And this friend of ours, I'm sure he's looking for an explanation. Now, about the Department of State Water Affairs, I mentioned it myself yesterday because I'm a farmer, and I'm a farmer, and I'm a friend who's trying to earn a living on this job. For him, the State Water Affairs General Directorate is also a very important general directorate for farmers. There are a few things I'd like to share with you about this institution, and I'd like to share with the public. Mr. Secretary, I mentioned this last year when I took out the Irrigation Units Act here and then gave an off-the-book speech about the problems of the irrigation troops, but you didn't pay much attention. Now, there is now an increase between 80% and 100 per cent in watering costs. In Egypt, cotton, soybeans, and other products, irrigation rates rose between 80% and 100 percent. What's the reason for this? The reason for this is that before, the assembly of irrigation troops determined it, it was made up of farmers in that region. They were consulting the agricultural chambers, taking the ideas of the farmers there, and they were setting a price for the area because they knew very well how the people there lived, how the farmers lived, how they suffered, how they tried to lift the burden. Now he's got the cotton watering price from $17 to $31, and he's dictated it to the irrigation troops. Is that a favor from God? What's that like? So, which of the agricultural products have you increased so much that you're making a 100 percent increase in these irrigation fees? Egypt is below last year's price, wheat is below last year's price, cotton is already vile, cotton is already vile. Well, when you don't see a 50 percent increase in your ten-year-old power, when you don't see a 50 percent increase in corn, when cotton counts in the same place, what if it's a 100 percent increase in God? How the hell do you get that for a farmer? I mean, I can't handle it. I can't accept it as a farmer. So if you give an increase, if you provide the farmer's well-being, and then you do these increases, of course, everyone will probably look at that in a reasonable way, but you... the fertilizer prices are gone, 400, 500 percent increase, the diesel has increased 400 percent, 500 percent. When the farmer is overwhelmed every day under these burdens, his field is weak from bread, and you get up, you raise the irrigation rates by 100 percent. I swear to God! So there's no way to understand it, there's no way to accept it. I'm speaking here as a friend of yours, a man who really is a farmer, who knows how the farmers feel. My dear friends, look, again, you've sent a sentence about deep wells. Here, for the deep wells to be put on counters. For the deep wells, until the 13th of February, the farmer will go and apply and wear a meter. With this meter, you'll follow how much water the farmer uses. If he's used too much, you'll cut off his water, and if the farmer hasn't applied, you'll cut off his water again. And in this snow, sir, how did this farmer come from the village of where, until the 13th of February to complete the process? Then how will this farmer water his field, Mr. Secretary? Have you been able to complete the drip watering all over the place, to ensure that water is underuse all over the place, and yet you resort to such a system? He's gone to the head of his own field, he's banged his own way, he's hit a deep well, he's got the power, he's got the transformer, you're coming, brother, I'll give you all the water I want, you'll use all the water I want. Is there such a thing? What kind of understanding is that? What mentality are you trying to manipulate people with? Mr. Secretary, please give up this decision, and please give up that 100 percent increase that the DSI bureaucrats have imposed on the irrigation troops. This farmer is not your enemy, this farmer is the man of this land; he sows, reaps, produces.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0292par0088	He voted for them, too, that farmer.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0291par0089	These are the people who get up at five in the morning, go to their fields at 5:00 in the morning, grow crops in their fields until the middle of the night, trying to feed our people, trying to feed our people. You will not be able to justify them. Have fear of God. My dear friends, again, about base drainage... I told you here last semester, we'll look, we'll look, we'll do it. But I know from my own district, both from unconscious irrigation and unconscious fertilizer, our land is getting barren, base drainage is required. Without the base drainage, a few years later you will find no land to reap in Çukurova. Please, give your bureaucrats the proper instructions on this matter, and start working on these base drainages as soon as possible. This is a very serious matter, a very important matter. There's no barrenness in the fields with base drainage. Go in the winter, see, when it rains on those fields, go see, the bottom drains out of their drainages, draining all the water from the field and moving it into their canals. Therefore, the fields in Çukurova are essential; you must do it, you must do it. Again, this Seven-Eyed Dam... you've completed the energy-related part. Again, you've brought up the part about irrigation, which is a good development, but every period of your reign over the decade, before every election, your politicians are going to go to the region, and we're going to water you next year from the Seven Eye Dam. We're going to water 750,000 acres of land at work. See, I'm talking about Kozan, Imamoğlu, Sarıçam and Ceyhan districts that are going to be watered over 750,000 acres of land. You said he was being auctioned off, but so far there's been no significant improvement. I don't expect this will start or end soon, but for our farmers there, for our peasants there, the irrigation system of this dam needs to be finished, and it needs to be watered as soon as possible, and the economy of the farmers there is very important for both our country's economy and our country's economy. 700,000 acres, guys, that's a lot. You know, in villages, there's a phrase like that, in case we plant a man, there's no man left, you know, there's a lot of strength in them, but you can't water them. Why? The watering system of the Seven-Eye Dam cannot be watered because it cannot be finished. And they're members of the ruling party that always does politics in that region: we're draining your water next year. They've gone, they've fooled the villagers there, but, unfortunately, for ten years now, there's been no progress. Again, Mr. Secretary, this is about drainage channels... and I mentioned it here last year. ▪ Get these drainage ducts cleaned up quickly, and the irrigation troops cannot afford it. I said these drainage channels need to be cleaned with the hands of State Water Affairs. But now, I'm looking at who's got the pull, who's a strong politician in AKP, sir, the big, giant cleaning tools are working on their turf. What's the poor bastard's fault? Is it the poor wretch's fault to be poor or poor to own a few fields, that they are farmers, that they are not peasants, that they need their services, that the government has no duty to provide for them? But you've laid it on the backs of the irrigation troops, and the irrigation troops don't have the strength to handle it. Solve the personnel problems of the irrigation troops. We said, "You didn't solve them." Sir, let the irrigating troops clean up. You say you're out, you're out. The irrigation troops have no power to do that, and again, the State Waterworks must step in and clear these channels. I believe it's a very important decision for our land from a farmer's point of view. Again, it's a good thing that a former deputy is a deputy minister, and he'll understand how the MPs are doing, and he'll do better for them. I hereby pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0293par0096	Thank you. The first word on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group is Mr. Müslim Sarı. Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0294par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I have been promised to express my views on the Ministry of Economy. I salute everyone. And I wish the Minister well from here. I'd also like to share my regret that the budgets of the Ministry of Economy and the ministry are being discussed, but the AKP ranks are empty. I think it's an indication of how seriously the AKP or the government takes the budget production process. Back to the issue: I have a report card, an economic report card for the AKP government. There are behavioral notes here, notes taken in some courses other than behavioral notes. Growth, unemployment, external balance, debt, inflation and finance policy, these are failing grades. As you can see, it's a failure. Let me try to explain why you failed. One: growth. First of all, let's put this illusion aside, dear friends, that the Republic of Turkey has not grown too high during the AKP administrations. Official figures of the state: since the Republic was established, the Republic of Turkey has grown by an average of 5 per cent by 2002. If we assume that growth assumptions will be true or reach these goals by 2015 during the AKP administrations, it will only grow 5 per cent. Thus, it is wrong that Turkey grew too high during the AKP administrations, and it is not true. Second: Turkey's growth remains below compared to the growth of developing countries, see, official figures. Between 2003 and 2007, Turkey grew 6.9; developing countries grew 7.6. In 2008-2012, Turkey grew 3.2; developing countries grew 5.5. So Turkey has not grown too big, it has grown as much as its potential, but has grown under developing countries. For seven quarters, the rate of growth in Turkey is falling downward or the rate of growth is falling down. The last place we came to, the third quarter was 1.6. Growth almost stopped. The growth from the calendar and seasonal effects is 0.2. It's certain that their growth goals won't hold. The 2012 growth target, 4%, has been moved to 3.2 per cent, and is now nearly certain that growth after the third quarter of the figures will be below three. The growth figures 2013, 2014 and 2015 are also very unrealistic at the intersection of the world economy and given Turkey's structural problems. The employment figures are low, and the employment rating is low, by the government. See, the Republic of Turkey averaged 8.3 per cent of unemployment in the 80s, and the average unemployment average in the 90s was 8.2. Now, you claim to have grown too high. When you grew up very high, unemployment remained at ten percent, two percent. Even at the end of 2015, you think that you will reduce unemployment to 8.7, you have done such a projection, and the structural problems of employment have not been solved. The employment rate and employment averages are below 50%. Do you know what that rate was in the 1980s, my friends? 57% and 55% of the jobs you've done through a narrowing, shrinking pool, you haven't been able to reduce unemployment even over the employment figures you've created; unemployment numbers are problematic. The external imbalance is one of the economy's weakest, most fragile, least graded, and most broken on the report card. In the history of the Republic of Turkey in 2011, we set a record on a current deficit; 77-78 billion dollars in current transaction deficits, 10 per cent of national income. After Belarus and Georgia, we became the country with the highest rate of current transactions. And even if the current deficit of the Turkish economy is facing a partial improvement in recent times, compared with the sacrifice we made without growth, it turns out that the decline in current transactions is not enough; the current accountability deficit is reduced from 78 billion to 60 billion dollars. There's an 18 billion-dollar recovery, but we're dealing with a growth rate that's three times greater than what we've made before we grow up, down from 8 percent, 9 percent to 3 percent. So, from this angle, we're dealing with a conjunctive that's not very positive. The quality of financing of the cari transaction deficit is failing. Look, I'll give you an example: when we invest $19 billion in the current account deficit in November 2011, we get $36 billion in portfolio investments today, so we're financing the current deficit from debt-making pens or fragile pens or short-term resource inputs every day. This significantly increases the fragility of the Turkish economy. Debts are one of the weak spots on the report card. You're saying we've narrowed down our debt stocks to 31 per cent. Yeah, that's right, the public doesn't borrow money because of their extracurricular policy. The public debt has been disciplined, there's a discipline in public finance, but the total debt of the economy is growing because the economy's debt-making dynamic is growing. If so many current transactions are compromised by an economy that finances this deficit with creative pens and the public doesn't owe money, then who's going to do it? That's when the private sector makes the debt. Look, in your reign, in 2012, it was only $43 billion, but in Turkey, the foreign debt of the private sector reached $212.5 billion today. Four times the amount of debt made throughout the entire Republic's history was done only during your administration. In parallel, the real sector exchange position gaps are growing. Real sector exchange deficits have risen from 18 billion to 130 billion dollars, so the real sector is at a very serious risk of currency. In 2001, private sector companies face the same risk of the same currency, as the banking system faced such a risk and failed. This increases the vulnerability of Turkey's economy. And the people of the household are well-nigh tenfold in your government. Inflation is one of your broken grades on the report card. During six years of inflation targeting, you've achieved inflation in just two years, and he hasn't been able to recur the targets in four years outside of it. The deviation in 2006 is 94%, the deviation in 2007 is 110 per cent in 2008, the deviation in 153 per cent in 2008, the deviation in 2011, 89 per cent in 2011, and it is not possible for a government to meet its 5 per cent inflation target at the point where we have reached where the domestic demand has collapsed, which says domestic demand will increase and growth will be formed from here in 2013 and later in 2013. Finance policy is troubled. The 2012 budget has gone from $12.4 billion, and the budget, the overall progress in the economy, the financial policy, has not been defined as a friend of growth and employment. Investment costs are reduced by the government from the budget, both in real terms and nominally. The goods and service pens are real negative. Therefore, since growth targets are not realistic in the coming term, we will face a budget, a financial policy that will finance this loss of tax performance in the coming period, as there will be a serious tax loss in the indirect taxes. I declare here today: there will be a huge increase in 2013, because growth will not hold goals, it will not maintain financial balances because it does not hold goals, and the financial balances will be tried to recover from the back of the citizen. But let's not be unfair; while the government's report cards are poor on the economy, there are areas in which it is very good -- external addiction: 10 out of 10. Ten out of ten. The ability to raise: 10 out of 10. Intense economic reality: 10 out of 10. Don't look down on the worker, the officer, the peasant: 10 out of 10. Don't look down on the citizen: 10 out of 10. So there are areas where you are successful. Your economic policies are not successful, but your behavioral points are very good. So, what's the result? Let's look at the report card again: since the situation and the progress are not good, give confirmation quickly. My respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0295par0120	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0296par0121	Who gave you the report card?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0294par0122	The citizen will give you the confirmation as well.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0295par0123	Mr. Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0297par0124	You win because you're the boss of power, not everyone can make money.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0295par0125	Mr. Tanal, let's hear your spokesman. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0298par0127	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0295par0128	Sir?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0298par0129	There's a lot of noise, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0295par0130	Well, they're all making noise at work, Mr. Yalcinkaya.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0299par0131	You haven't ordered a meatball yet. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0300par0132	Have it your way.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0295par0133	Reverends, I can't tell if you're joking or yelling. If you're yelling, I'll take a break.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0299par0134	We're not yelling.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0295par0135	Oh, if you're joking, please shut up and let's watch Mr. Yalçınkaya. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0301par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on the exact budget of the 2013 Central Management Budget Bill, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs budget and the Ministry of Environment and Forestry. On this occasion, I salute you all. We are gathered here today to discuss the budget of an organization that dates back to 1839. The Forest Ministry was founded in 1969, but was founded by the Tanzimat Ferman. Unfortunately, after a coup on September 12th, your governments were forced to close in time or become part of other ministries. Mr. Secretary, in 2003, it was your power that united the Department of the Forest with the Ministry of Environment. Then, on June 3, 2011, you formed the Ministry of Environment, Forestry and Urbanism and turned it into the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs on June 29, 2011. Mr. Prime Minister, in order not to have to choose between you and Mr. Bayraktar, he chose the easier way for himself to close down the ministry he had just established a month ago and open up a new one, allocated environmental and urbanism to Mr. Bayraktar and to you the forest and water work. Unfortunately, you didn't just play fun with the department's roof organisation. You've also made the interconnected headquarters and the rural organization unrecognizable. Thanks to your frequent changes to the ministry and rural organisation structures, you've passed what you don't want from the executive positions of the forestry organisation, and the right to appeal to the court. You've made the rest of them look between your lips by appointing you as acting officer. In 2004, you changed Mining Law number 2613, and even in the most sensitive forests, you've brought all kinds of mining and running opportunities, including the quarry. This law, known by the pressures of domestic and foreign business environments, was your government which opened private areas of forest, wooding grounds, private protected areas, national parks, sites, water basins, coastal areas, tourism areas, military restricted areas and individuals to mining activities. In 2003 and 2008, you are the one who changed the Tourism Instruction Act 2634, which allowed cultural and tourism protection and development zones outside the development zones and tourism centers, national parks, conservation areas, nature parks and monuments, the establishment of Special Environmental Protection Institution 383, to rule against the establishment of a new law under the Law, and against the laws of Culture and Tourism, which allowed the establishment of local and foreign tourism investors to rule out tourism through this arrangement. During your time, our forests have been severely damaged by changes and regulations in the law over the past ten years, and there is no turning back. Permissions for mining, tourism, hydroelectric plants and quarryes have also led to environmental problems, environmental massacres; hotels, villas, crazy projects, 3 Τ throat bridges and freeways, luxury housing, shopping malls, thermal plant projects, urban transformation projects. In your party's 2011 election statement, between 1992 and 2002, the previous governments averaged the restoration of 75,000 hectares and corrupt forests, while your ministry raised seven times that number from 2003 to 2009, showing the success of entering the world's first 3 · Global Voices in the development of trees and deforestation in 501,387 hectares. Based on your figures, Mr. Prime Minister is also using the term "three hundredth" in the world in treeing, but, Mr. Secretary, forestry experts say that your statements have been exaggerated and inconsistencies and that the amount of area that has been planted during your time has only increased by 20 per cent compared to the previous period, which is a parallel to the overall development of our country. According to experts, the rise in the alleged large amount of wooding is due to an extraordinary increase in rehabilitation studies, but unfortunately, these rehabilitation studies are done in what is described as a corrupt forest, which is wrong to describe as "the planting work." In fact, it takes 20 times the cost of rehabilitation to plant a 1 hectare of land. You chose the cheap one. Mr. Secretary, in addition to rehabilitation studies, you're making it look like you've increased the number of trees, you're misleading the public, because you've included erosion control, mera rehabilitation and so on, in the work of planting. Mr. Secretary, it's ridiculous to stand up to the HESESTs, and you've become the number one guardian of the HESESTs. YOU are far from considering the irreversible damage done by HESbooks on the forest. The streams are sacrificed to the HESEs, and the streams are dried up, and the people rebel against the destruction of the streams. Sadly, people who live in these basins and water their fields and gardens are forced to migrate from their homes for many years. Do you not realize that the losses of the HESEs are becoming more and more apparent? Even the MPs at your party are slowly making a sound against the HESECs. When will you listen to this rebellion of the people, and when will you give up your wrong practices? Mr. Secretary, according to the 170th article of our Constitution, you have transformed the 2/B areas that should only be assigned to forest villagers into an object that anyone can buy by violating the Constitution. We put users first in buying, but you know it's impossible for the real owners to buy these fields at the same price as you've determined. You open up the forest village's use of land for many years into other people's use, and you can rip it out of those areas where they've been protecting and protecting them for years and owning them. How will you prevent the conflict between the new owners of these areas and their current users, and therefore between these sections and the state? We've made this arrangement for the forest villager. You're saying that, but you're shutting down the ORCI General Manager's office, which has been authorized by law to organize the allocation of areas 2/B to the forest villagers, and you're handing these things over to the Finance Ministry. You also oppose our party, which argues that the land should be given to its rightful owners for free, at a price of 70 percent. So it turns out you're already trying to protect the forest villager or prevent budget deficits. My dear friends, I'm afraid the government has also failed in forest-ville relations. According to the latest data, there are approximately 7 million inhabitants in the village of 21.278 forest. The infrastructure, health care and education of our villages is very low for other parts of society, and our villager is trying to make a living with cutting, dragging, and transportation. Due to the narrowing of rural development activities every day, unfortunately, migrations have begun in these villages. It must be known that jungles can't be protected without protection and forestry can't be developed without a forest peasant. I welcome you all with the hope that the budget will be a blessing for our country and for our nation.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0302par0152	Thank you. Mr. Tanju Özcan... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0303par0155	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, and on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I have made a commitment to express our thoughts on the budget of the Director-General of the Forest. I salute the General Assembly. Congressmans, as you know, as a facial measurement, I'm entering these issues as a member of the district where the most forests are in Turkey. I've talked to our Minister about this seven or eight times before, and I've talked about the problems of the forest villager, and I've run out of hair in my tongue, so to speak, but I'm also sad to see that so far, no concrete steps have been taken by the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. I want to repeat it here. We're talking about the problems of the poorest part of Turkey. We're talking about about 20,000 forest villages, about 7.5 million people living here, Mr. Secretary. Forest villagers are now 10 per cent of Turkey's population, but in 1970, forest villagers were 23 per cent of Turkey's population. Today, the share of forest villagers receive from national income is less than 1%, members of lawmakers. Whoever calculates it, whether it's the unions, whether it's the yellow unions, whether it's the trade unions, or whoever calculates it, it's the fact that all the forest villagers in Turkey, their families, live under the age of hunger, they earn money.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0304par0158	That's right.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0303par0159	Due to poverty and poverty, 23 per cent have dropped to 10 per cent since 1970, Minister. I've told you before, lawmakers, and now I want to say that the most important problem for the forest peasant is the policies of the AKP government. The forest peasant has always voted for the AKP for three semesters, but -- let our forest villagers listen to this -- the AKP has never favoured the forest villager, the poor poor man has not sided with the poor, nor has he sided with the strange guru. He saw the co-ops as an illegal organization -- the forest co-ops -- our Ministry of the Forest saw the forest villager as a liability. Look, the Forest General Directorate we're talking about today is one of Turkey's most profitable public institutions with the least expense, but the heads of this organization have no conscience, unfortunately, valued MPs. Look, why? In the Republic of Turkey, the Forest General Directorate acts as an institution. The tree grows on its own. The woodsman cuts it up, robs it, delivers it to the warehouse. That's all the forest headquarters sells, so the tree goes from nature to the peasant, the money goes into the headquarters of the forest. There's something strange about this, it's a very strange order, these precious MPs. However, the Forest General Directorate is one of Turkey's most profitable public institutions and is one of the most tax-paying public institutions in the state. Do you know what the result is? The director of the forest gets a plaque first before the Prime Minister does, and then he gets elected MP from Karabuk. Our new CEO's term probably expires in three days, which is the best news I've heard today.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0305par0162	If someone else comes, it'll be empty, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0303par0163	Hopefully, in exchange for his services, he will come to Parliament as a member of parliament from a diverse city of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0306par0164	You don't want to be too happy.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0303par0165	Mr. Minister, the esteemed lawmakers, the forest peasant, with the world's most expensive diesel, do the hardest job in the world, can't make money, can't feed. I've just mentioned the condition of the forest peasant, and I've mentioned it in previous conversations. I've even proposed a law on this matter, Mr. Secretary. I said, "Let's fix the price of the valley. Let's change the 40th article of the Law of the Forest." I said: "If the Emvali Forest General Directorate, which is delivered to the warehouse by the forest village, is selling it for a year from the warehouse in that area, let's offer half of that price to the forest peasant as a price. Of course, that offer has been rejected with your shielded fingers, my friends. You've upset 8 million forest villagers. As a government, you didn't give the forest villager the price he deserved, and you took the contractors into the woods and you took a loaf of bread out of the woods.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0307par0166	There's plenty of bread in the woods.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0303par0167	Congressmans, I warn you from here: the process of selling from the obelisk, which is around 23 per cent today, if, as the general manager tells me, the general manager mistakenly assumes me to be a ruling party MP in Bolu. If I'm raised to 60 per cent, the audience that we define today as a forest peasant will become a contractor's worker in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0308par0168	So he thinks you're the ruling party's MP, the general manager?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0303par0169	He said that by mixing it up, Mr. Tünce. I'd like to warn Mr. Secretary that, please, give up this obelisk sales app. Give this money to the forest peasant, give it to the forest peasant. At least let the forest peasant work and get paid for his work. Mr. Secretary, you're laughing, but the situation of the forest villager is a mess. I told you before. You're breaking, you're very fragile. Then, I'm sorry. I have to tell you, but I can't stand it when I laugh. I've told you before, Minister. Look, I'm a young man who grew up in a forest village, a young MP. If I'm a congressman today, there's a great deal of work from my late grandfather's labor in the forest. I came to you. Again, I said: Mr. General Manager, Mr. Minister, the forest peasant has a very big problem. What did you laugh at me for? Honey, where did this come from? I'm telling you again, Mr. Minister, let's go to Karabuk. Let's go to Bolu. Let's go to Çanırı, let's go to Adana. Let's knock on any villager's door.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0309par0172	Go to my redhead!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0303par0173	...let's gather the villagers, ask them if they're happy with you. God bless you, Mr. Minister, we're very pleased with our situation, and if they say we're in power, I'm ready to tear up the MP's office and return to Bolu. Look, I'll repeat that again, but if it's different, you can't stay on that mission. Mr. Secretary, I'm calling this a challenge. Minister, I have something important to say, and I have an important claim to make. You have a forest manager who is currently stationed in Sakarya. His name is Hasan Türkyilmaz. The Bolulus know him as Hasan the poor, Hassan the poor, Hassan the poor. Do you know why, Minister? Have you ever seen a director of forest business in Turkey -- I'm asking you, Mr. Lawmakers -- who's been informed of poverty? In 2006, he received a knowledge of poverty from a village in Beyköy district of Düzcetem.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0310par0175	Let's give the minister a green card!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0303par0176	You took this man, you made him regional manager to Sakarya.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0311par0177	There's more, there's more.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0303par0178	I've heard worse. Let's hope we don't get caught up in the rain. Mr. General Manager, it's said that after you retire, you're going to make this ruler of the forest. Don't do that, Minister. Don't do that. You can't get rid of the plague of 7.5 million forest villagers, so don't do anything like that.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0311par0179	He'll definitely do it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0312par0180	You just raised his chances!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0303par0181	Of course, I can't go into detail because there's a deadline. The speakers before me have made a promise about the problems of the forest rangers, and I'm not getting into it. However, Mr. Secretary, you still haven't opened the Fourdivan Forestry Manager's Office in spite of the State's decision. I don't know what the bureaucrats are telling you about this, but I'm pressing charges against you from this stand to the state's attorney's office because you haven't carried out a court order. I also say that we will vote in this budget, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0313par0184	Invite the prosecutors on duty.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0314par0185	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. Mr. Ali Sarıbaş of Çanakkale. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Yellowhead, please.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0315par0189	Mr. President, I'd like to present the very valuable MPs on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the budget of the State Water Affairs Directorate in 2013. First of all, I give my love and respect to our citizens and to your grand delegation who listen to us on television. Dear friends, on December 12, 2012, I'd like to begin speaking with your attention to the Deeper Dam, where our Prime Minister unveiled it as an engineering marvel. When the AKP took over the project in 2002, the cost of the project was $1 billion,723m, $957m. Today, at the end of 2012, 6 billion is declared $12 million. The AKP has set its first record, costing $3.5 billion for the project that will cost $1 billion. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is right, Turkey is getting a new record, what's the difference of $2.5 billion? Electricity, which will cost 45 cents in 2002, costs 165 cents when we arrive in 2012 as a result of AKP delaying ten years. Which means more money comes out of our citizen's pocket. This is the second record the AKP has given to our citizens. These records are a New Year's gift to our people. Good luck with that. Dear friends, in the 2000-2011 period, we see our energy production increased by 15 percent, while our energy consumption increased by 34 percent. We produce about 24 percent of the energy consumption that we depend on, like 76 percent, with our own resources. The GAP, one of the major milestones in the country's independence, began in 1936 by order of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and came to the agenda at the end of the 1960s. The GAP is a project to produce 22 dams in 75,358 square kilometers and 19 hydropower plants and 27 billion kilowatts of energy and water 1.7 million hectares. The grant of the project, calculated to cost $32 billion in total, has been delayed by a regular reduction during the AKP period. In 2007, the grant, which was 29 per cent in 2003, was reduced to less than 8 per cent. The GAP has not received sufficient funds, but 12 billion 124 million Turkish liras have been transferred from the unemployment fund, including the 2010-2012 period. This is the money that must be paid to the unemployed and used in the Gap. During 2003-2008, 1,8 million hectares of final irrigation were targeted in the GAP Action Plan, but 73,843 hectares were accomplished. The GAP Action Plan, which has set an additional target of 850,000 hectares in the 2008-2012 period, was able to achieve its goal by only 6.7 per cent in the period of its four-year period, with $4.5 billion to be set by 2012, despite the completion of 1 million 60,000 hectares. Also, 19 hydropower plants planned to be built under the GAP project have not been activated. Mr. Secretary, when you came to visit Çanakkale, you said that we would build the city of dams and ponds. It was in an environment with me and the President. It's good to talk. However, the Bosphorus and Bajramdere dams, which began construction in our region in the 90s, have not yet been completed. You'll say: "You opened the Bayramdere Dam, as I just told you." No, what's the use of opening a dam that doesn't run out of irrigation ponds? Don't fool our people, Mr. Secretary. In addition, the amount of investments that have not been completed in Çanakkale, as in Turkey, although often boasted about State Water Affairs investments. In this sense, the construction of the Bell Kara husband, Sixkuleç, Biga Ayiyetdere, Hajipehlivan, Kaynarca, Ayıtdere Belt Plain, Yenice Hamdibey Asor, Lapseki Bey head, Ezine Akçin pond and irrigation is still unfinished, Mr. Secretary. Meanwhile, other irrigation ponds are also continuing. Besides, we have a lot of ponds that continue to plan. We'll make the chanakkale a city of dams, ponds, and irrigation facilities. It's easy to throw it away. In the tiniest rain, the fields of crops are flooded, while our animals are being wiped out, while our citizens are dying of their lives and property. Dear lawmakers, at least 8,000-10 a year per person in the world. We see 1.430 cubic metres of water per person in our country, when 1,000 cubic metres of water should be used. According to State Water Affairs data, since 2030, water will drop 1,100 cubic metres per person, which means we will continue to take part in the water-poor countries. This is the vision of our State Waterworks and Forestry Ministry, which aims at 2030. Is this the vision of the AKP? You're drawing our water back to strangers under the name of privatisation. As for our citizens, in a new way, we write ads, put clocks on your wells, and give money. We have over 1.5 million citizens living around the Kazdağs. Water sources are under threat and siege by multinational corporations, gold companies and their contractors. Because of the drillings in many places such as Willows, Glasses, Halilachı, Hadjibekirs, Murats, Ants, Olives, Cherry, Ornithrians, Ayvacik Gardense, the sources of drinking and using water will be lost. The licensed territories are located on the watering basin of the Kazdağs. As long as you gave them this area, you gave them drinking water, using water, and not just people, but the industry, which you gave them. On September 17-18 and December 2, 2012, he flooded our influential rain fields, vineyards, gardens, greenhouses, and businesses that rained on Çanakkale and in our counties. In Biga, two of our citizens died in flood waters. Our bridges have collapsed due to the flooding of teas and streams. I once said that 55 percent of Çanakkale is a forest. Why did you shut down our district office, and why did you manage forest districts with 2% forest? Is that partisanism? I wonder, what is the primary role of the Forestry Department, or the Forestry Ministry? Dear friends, here, as we have seen the 2030 vision of State Waterworks flooding all over Turkey, says the Republic People's Party, which is not prepared for this budget and failed, I offer my deepest love and respect. (Applause)
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0316par0203	Thank you. Mr. Ramis Topal of Amassian Congress. (Applause) Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0317par0206	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, the General Directorate of State Meteorological Affairs. I salute the General Assembly. In view of the budget of the meteorological General Directorate, good lawmakers are continuing renovations this year, as every year. New stations, new systems are being installed. This year, however, many of our citizens who have been flooded with floodwaters have struggled or lost their lives, the bridges have been destroyed, the village roads, the city roads have been flooded; floods have flooded their villages, cities, and fields. As we wished for rain to bring blessings to our country, we prayed that every rain and snow would not be a disaster. Why can't solutions be produced, warned in advance, and taken precautions? Isn't it the government's duty to protect its citizens from such disasters? It's the same with the other department's headquarters. General administrations within the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs are not well managed. Mr. Secretary, you were there when the law on the sale of 2/B properties came to the commission. Regarding the sale of these properties, we have decided that the 2/B land will be sold to the villagers at 50 per cent of the cost, along with our friends from AKP, MP and CHP commissioners. Our commissioners found this 50 per cent of the price too much, and our commissioner has given you a notice: Mr. Minister, I hope you will lower that value in the Council of Ministers. When this bill came to the General Assembly, it was raised to 70 percent again. I wish you'd convinced your own congressman there so you wouldn't be so inconsistencies. One name of the Law was the development of forest villagers. However, you transferred 90 percent of the income to TOKI. So, what did TOKI do with all this money? When the poorest part of Turkey was using the money he made from the forest villagers to develop these forest villagers again, you went after your followers through the TOKI. It's already been in the local press for the past two weeks, so I think it's going to be even more in the national press. Mr. Minister, actions are being carried out on the implementation of the HES project throughout Turkey, demonstrations are being performed, roads are being cut off, roadblocks are being set up. The public is facing security forces. Have you ever considered that the public might be right about this? Why do these people rebel, react against the HESEs, and do not want to be done? Let me tell you: There are 22 HES projects in the Amassian Valley of Greening. What does that mean? It means that the beautiful apple orchards of Tasova, the cherry orchards, and, in particular, the earth-branded Stoneova gumbo, have been cut off. Taşova is a town of 20,000 people who provide for agriculture. How many kilowatts of electricity do you think you're going to produce by taking his bread out of his hand? Don't play with the future of Tasova, Minister. Of course, the people whose future has been tampered with, the people who have been taken away, will rise up and react. I want you to review these HES projects. Mr. Secretary, I'm going to try to explain to you how the Ministry's budget has been squandered by an incident in Amasya, which may be a subject to films: During 2011, the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs gave cows to the villagers in Amasya. These cows were said to be the world's most milk-giving cows. The company, which signed with the ministry, sold two of these fine cows to the villagers for two years without repayment, five years with equal installments of $18,540. The villagers who were already in trouble would take their milk and buy bait, pay their mortgage payments. The offspring of the breeding cows would have profited. Unfortunately, the account at home didn't fit the market. Our villagers took care of these cows for a year, fed them, watered them, took medicine, and paid for them according to their budget. These cows had offspring, but they couldn't feed their young with milk because they didn't have milk. The villagers milked milk from their own black cow cows and tried to feed the young of these cows with a bottle. I've been to these villages, I've seen them. There were so many pathetic situations in the villages. Some of the nerds who were given plenty of milk can't see. I've seen cows with no tits and no babies. Mr. Secretary, an old uncle came to me in a village, and I'm 70 years old, and I haven't owed anyone for 70 years. I trusted the government, and I took it from these cows. These cows don't give milk, they don't breed. He asked, "How will we repay these debts? ' I'm asking you the same question, Mr. Secretary: how will this peasant uncle repay this debt? If he can't pay, will his home, his field be impounded? Officials of the county and agricultural administrations have been studying these cows with this warning. In the study, these cows were found to be cut Angus cows, not dairy cows. The district governors also reported that these cows should be cut off as soon as possible. For 18,500 TL, the Anguss received as milk cows are not worth 5,000 euros today. The villagers, on a small account, were ripped off for $13,500 a year. Mr. Secretary, how are these villagers going to pay off these loans? Will you make it easier for them? Mr. Secretary, the point is, these animals entered the country as male cattle, but by the time they entered the country, these cows were given female passports. What do you think that means? This is a scandal, isn't it? Isn't that corruption? Mr. Minister, in the 21st century, we have villages in Turkey that have no drinking water and have no roads asphalt. The roads with asphalt are also made by the YSE thirty years ago, but now it has lost its asphalt property, creating very deep pits. I wish from this budget that you would put budgets on those villages to asphalt their roads, to bring drinking water to those villages, but to rid them of these persecutions, these sufferings, these sufferings. I hope you'll ask about these scandals, investigate, create the necessary solutions, and do what you have to do about the criminals, Mr. Secretary. Your ministry wishes you to use the budget for the benefit of our country, our village, our farmer, and I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0318par0225	Thank you. Mr. Melda Onur, Istanbul MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0319par0228	Thank you. Mr. President, we were very happy when the Turkish Water Institute was founded because the water was the most basic human right, because the water had to be guaranteed constitutionally because the water had to be protected, but the institution's number of tasks are for the wild use of water. One mission, however, was sufficient for the survival of life to ensure that everyone was able to provide healthy drinking, watering, use water, Mr. Secretary. Now, when I look at the Minister, I always remember a sentence. I won't leave it to you, I'll tell you: water flows, Turk takes care of it. That's the minister's favorite thing to say, and so on and so forth. You even turned it into another form: the water flows, the Turk looks, and Veysel makes Minister. No applause this way? He's doing it because he's doing it, and he's opened 112 facilities at 12/12/2012. It's not that he doesn't, it's that he did the world. I'd expect a round of applause for him, something like that.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0320par0232	We're used to it...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0321par0233	If we hadn't built these facilities, you wouldn't even be able to drink water in Istanbul.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0319par0234	Of course, it's a good thing the Prime Minister didn't say 1,212 because who knows how fast, how unfinished, how unresolved, how many unfinished tasks you may have lined up to fill 112. Every time I hear a mass opening, I'm worried that whatever facilities are at these mass openings are trying to suck it up to make meaningless numbers. We're asking: Mr. Secretary, you give away these HES licenses without a CED, without asking a citizen, without asking a question; the answer is: the water flows, the Turk looks at them. Mr. Secretary, but people are farming, they need water; the answer is: water flows, the Turk looks. Mr. Secretary, the HES companies are out of control, workers are dying in subcontractors; the answer is: the water flows, the Turk looks, and we need energy. Now, I gave the Minister four questions about Ashkale -- all in these -- answers; an axe fell, a cow drank -- I don't remember. Like the rhyme, the Minister of Interior said, "There is no neglect." He said, "The Minister of Labor blamed the dead workers, the Minister of Forest threw the ball to the judge, and the Minister of Energy threw the ball to the Minister of Finance." We said, "Let's ask the Finance Minister; he gave a neat answer, but I think the Finance Minister is the most irresponsible one here." And I didn't ask the Minister of Justice anymore, and he's already in trouble, so I really need to pay a lot of attention to what these openings, these mass openings, these lack of supervisions will bring later. Unfortunately, people die from water, while you are making many openings under the name of this water revolution. Now, Mr. Secretary, the HES, which cost the lives of 10 workers, where five bodies still remain in Adana, was the work of what collective opening? There are still 15 people in the tea shop who do not have bodies. You know there's a bridge down here. What was that before the mass opening? I'm saying it's hard because if you go to the Township of Teacuma, before the Prime Minister comes, you'll see how the old bridge was spilled on its cracked asphalt. I didn't bring it here because I didn't like to show pictures. In Samsun, what collective openings did you have in the creek bed where people trusted you and thought it was a warm home and cost them their lives? I don't know who's the minister of this responsibility, but maybe the Minister of Environment was supposed to be here. Mr. Secretary, what group of openings is HES, which is the subject of the murder that 5 workers disappeared in front of us in Ashkale? And the dams are named after politicians, Cemil Cicek. Now, some newspaper writers took it as a joke, but I can't laugh because I swear if my name was thrown into a dam, I wouldn't be able to sleep at night, I'd be on guard at that dam, who knows what would happen. I'd like to convey this to Mr. Cemil Cicek. By the way, I keep looking at you, and I say, "Sister, there's no shame, is there? Because recently, a senior minister of ours here has shown an embarrassment. I just wanted to make sure it wasn't too uncomfortable for him. Which minister was he?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0322par0244	Bulent Arinc.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0319par0245	"Brenkent Andic." Bulent Andic, who cried over the press (EC PARTY desks) over the years saying, "We've been talked about," and then read to the students one newspaper, and that's enough for you. My tongue slipped, I'm sorry, let the reports go like this. I'm going back to my own minister. Minister, I'm going to ask you two questions before I finish my speech. Recently, he was somewhere with the Minister of Energy... about the HESEs: One has admitted that they have not properly supervised the private sector. Two, I said to the Minister of the Forest, "Let's give up some HES. Let's not do some." Now, two questions: one, how much money did you spend on your budget to supervise the private sector? How much money did you save? Two: Will you follow your friend's word, the cabinet in charge of energy? Is that how you designed your budget? Thank you. I salute all the workers who have lost their lives in the name of brutal capitalism.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0323par0253	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0324par0254	Add one minute to us.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0323par0255	How do we give it to him? It's over, because it's the last word.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0324par0256	Tomorrow...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0323par0257	I'm out tomorrow, you can tell the other one. Reverend, I'm not here tomorrow, so tell our friend tomorrow that I'm a buyer. Yes, first word on behalf of the Justice and Development Party, Mr. Şakaria MP Şaban Toothli. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0325par0261	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group regarding the budget of our economy ministry in 2013. On this occasion, I salute you all. In this last month of 2012, I will briefly look at the image of us in the world's mirror and our reflection in our own mirror, as the country's economy. Turkey's economy has passed through major transformations and has grown strong in stability through successful programmes that have been implemented over the past decade. Both our country's economies and international economies confirm this at every opportunity. The leaders of the 27 countries who joined the EU summit at the latest also have a common opinion: the dynamic of the Turkish economy contributes to the prosperity of the European continent. Since the first day we came to power as the EC PARTY, we continue to work with the zeal of our esteemed ministers, always raising our goals, without breaking our promises. So today we are the 16th largest economy in the world and the 5th largest economy in Europe. In this direction, our national income, $230 billion in 2002, rose to $774 billion, $3,500 per person, to $10,700 per person. Again, Turkey's public debt burden has dropped by about 40 points in the ten-year period of financial discipline and effective debt strategies we have implemented. With this result, we are far better off than 21 countries in the EU. This important transformation in our economy has also been reflected in exports, tourism revenues and investments. Exports, with $36 billion in 2002, set a new record with $150 billion, and Turkey, according to nine months of data in 2012, is the fourth fastest country to increase world exports. The diversity of our country's products and markets is increasing steadily. This success is even more important, especially given the economic crisis that led to Europe's bankruptcy. The number of products we exported from nine to 32, the number of countries we exported from 8 to 30, so the international competitiveness of the Turkish business world is increasing every day. On the other hand, our revenue of tourism, which is $8.5 billion in 2002, has increased by three times in 10 years by the end of 2011 over $23 billion. We became nine percent of the world's tourism revenues. In particular, in recent years, through investments, we have moved Istanbul to the world's 1st place on congressional tourism. The same transformation is seen in international direct investments. Turkey is ranked 13th on the list of most attractive countries for investment. Investors are coming to Turkey, which has successfully emerged from the global economic crisis and turned it into an opportunity, so they're coming to trust, so they're coming to stability. While many economies have not recovered from the effects of the global economic crisis in the past years, some European Union countries have cried out their bankruptcy by press conferences, while the ruling parties one by one are moving away from power, while some countries are being led by appointment prime ministers, while Turkey's economic success is being set up throughout the world. After 18 years, Turkey's credit rating, though late and inadequate, is being upgraded to the level of country that can be re-investigated by Fitch. And what this success will do to our economy will soon be seen. Turkey has become an unusual rising economy on a global scale, thanks to its superior performance in such a short time. To ensure the continuity of this, our vision of 2023 was prepared, presented by our Prime Minister in the last election and received the support of our people. So our people believed that Turkey would reach the size of a $2 trillion economy and become part of the world's top 10 largest economies, that it could export $500 billion in assets in 2023, and that it could achieve other goals. Budget negotiations are a transparent day-to-day assessment for the nation and for the nation. I've tried to give you a short reflection in this short period of time. On this occasion, he wishes our country, our nation, the good budget of 2013, prepared with the contributions of the worthy lawmakers of power and opposition, and I thank those who have done the work, and I give you all my regards again.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0326par0270	Thank you. Mr. Huseyin doesn't get upset. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0327par0274	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Economic Ministry of 2013. I salute you all. I'd like to begin my talk with the memory of the world-famous Mussavavani. His message of love, brotherhood and tolerance from this land centuries ago, religion, religion, sect, the call to embrace everyone, regardless of their race, their view, is still up-to-date in the 739th Year anniversary of their access to the vuslata, where hundreds of thousands of fellow citizens who follow this call meet today in Konya. I remember him once again with mercy on the anniversary of the day of the meeting with God. During our 2013 budget talks, a lot of ideas have been presented here, and I want to approach it from a very different perspective, because it's the budget for the Ministry of Economics that we're discussing. Looking back on Turkey's economy, its development, we've all seen where we came from together. I'm just going to remind you on what's seen, because in the tenth year of our AK PARTI rule, Turkey has achieved its economic greatness by strengthening its principles of justice and development. Justice, development, and development have solved chronic economic problems. Looking back, I went into politics as an industrialist from the inside of the business world, and for many years I was the manager of industrial and economic businessmen. What do we see when we turn around before the AK PARTY? We see interest reaching the seven thousand in one night. We see that inflation is very high. We see that our industrialists and businessmen can't do future designs, plans, projects. Today, however, our exports have exceeded 150 billion dollars, thanks to measures taken by the AK PARTY since its arrival in power. In 85 countries that we've done exports before, we have 250 representatives in 105 countries today, and they're working on exporting. What's important is that last year, our Ministry of Economics was established along with a decree under the law, where encouragement, investment, production and exports were co-ordinated. In these studies, I would like to state that the loans that Eximbank gave in 2002 alone amounted to $2 billion, $300 million, and the loan that was given today exceeded $15 billion. We've just heard from the speakers, and there's been talk of economic difficulties. I'd just like to point out that there's been a land distribution in the expansion area of organised industry in my constituency area recently. There were 504 investors applying for nearly 120 parcels of land. This is due to the incentives brought by our government, our Ministry of Economics. Thanks to these incentives, our industrialists, our businessmen, can make long-term calculations, can see the future, can make plans accordingly. In line with these goals, I believe that these will happen even further, and because of the work our government has done, our dreams of a hundred years in Konya have come true in the past that we can't imagine. What are these? One is the construction of the fast train connecting the two capitals, the capital of Seljuklu, to the capital of our republic, Ankara. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Here's what's happening: it's been down to 70 minutes, and the important thing is that the Blue Tunnel opened two days ago. The speaker just said he was here, talking about the dream. Our prime minister and our minister in charge of State Water Affairs have fulfilled a hundred years of fantasy and served to open the Blue Tunnel. I thank them from here. I wish the economy ministry's budget would be a blessing, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0328par0284	Thank you very much, Mr. Sadness. The Minister said, "Bravo Hussein! Let me announce the translation." Mr. Huseyin Şahin. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0329par0289	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Fiscal Ministry of Economics in 2013. First of all, I'm going to say -- a small operation for the Minister -- and although he's got two stents on a small operation -- I'd like to start by saying thank you and my condolences to the Minister of Victory who's been here with his love for service and ministry. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, we have a very beautiful saying: "Memory is damaged by human Nisyan. " I mean, human memory is bound to forget the past, so it forgets the past very quickly, forgets what was given to it very quickly, and forgets what was given to it very quickly. Of course, since we've been in power for ten years, we may not remember easily ten years ago, but it's our duty to remind you. Our duty is to tell our people about the pain we've experienced in the past, so that it doesn't happen again, uninterrupted, tireless, tireless. My dear friend here, my friend from the Plan Budget Commission, he just showed us a report card, so he tried to give us some information with some numbers in this report card. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make some statements from his perspective. It's not an answer, but my friend told me about the inflation numbers. He mentioned that inflation was not a target, that the government's goals were inconclusive, that there was a 150 per cent deviation at work. The figures he calls 150 percent deviation are single digits, friends. We lived in only one month, ten years ago, 15 years ago, even after the country began to run on coalitions in 1991. In our country today, we lived in an inflationist environment, with numbers of five, six, seven, and eleven. He mentioned interest, my friend. Today, just after our President of the Central Bank's statement yesterday, we experienced the immediate fall of banks due to the stability of our economy, but today, twice the amount of interest paid in one year, this country was only paying people in one month. You see, businessmen know that very well. The people of this country did not forget the days when they used loans by 10 percent a month, 12. Today, the Federal Reserve's overnight loan interest is 5.5 percent. Hopefully, with the safe hands that govern the country's economy, with the stable management of the AK PARTY, we'll see very soon, we'll reduce it to the world's levels of libor. We believe that. And for that, Mr. Minister of Economics and all of our bureaucrats who are interested in economics are working very hard. Of course, there's a lot of numbers here. We're responsible for reminding them. I'd like to tell you about a number, do any of you know the amount of investment in the 2002 budget?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0330par0295	Tell me, Hüseyin. You tell me.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0329par0296	9 billion Turkish liras today. Look, guys, we're just giving this much support in a year from the Department of Agriculture, which you don't like, which you get on the stand and criticize every day, to our farmers who are interested in the Department of Agriculture, except for government waterworks investments, we're giving it away, we're giving it away. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We invest $9 billion in land roads in just one year. Where Turkey has come from in ten years. We have structural problems, and we're working as hard as we can to fix them, and we're gonna keep working.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0330par0299	Are you talking about your own company? You're transmitting from people's vaults.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0329par0300	I'm running out of time. Five minutes went by too fast, guys. I swear I did. Dear friends, I ask you not to forget the IMF. We got $23.5 billion, and if the IMF doesn't show up that day, the country will go bankrupt. We got it from running the country, down to $900 million. We can pay it today if we want to. My Prime Minister says so.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0331par0302	Who's holding your hand, pay up.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0329par0303	Guys, I was going to tell you about the situation of the businessmen, about the gross national product, but I'm asking you to do something, please don't jinx it, work it out, work it out. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'll tell you something else. I want to show you guys what the report card looks like on our side. Look, see? So our citizen gives us a report card -- I wrote it very small -- with a vote of about 50 percent.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0332par0307	Will you ignore the other 50 percent?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0333par0308	We don't sing. We sing numbers.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0334par0309	Mussolini came with 50%, you know?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0335par0310	Mr. Osman Coffeemaker, Karabuk MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0336par0313	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs in 2013. I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs is responsible for the protection and management of two important natural resources, such as forest and water. In the period of the EC PARTY, as in all areas, there is also a major process of development and change in the management of forest and water resources. I'll be able to brief you on the activities of the ministry as soon as I can. In forestry, many firsts have been made in the area of forest protection and rehabilitation, forestification, desertification and erosion, the preservation of biological diversity, national parks, natural monuments, wetlands, and the preservation and development of hunting and wildlife have been made and have been made great successes. Congressmans, forests are the most important natural resources to contribute to the well-being and health of communities. One of the greatest environmental disasters today is the antidote to global warming and climate change. But man consumes the forests quickly. 500 million hectares of forest have been lost on Earth in the last 40 years alone. Many international processes have yet to stop deforestation. Our country is not rich from the forest. 48 percent of our existing forests are also broken. And given that 75 percent of our country is under the threat of erosion, we have to quickly plant our corrupt forests and our naked areas to increase forest existence and protect our land. This is a national task beyond forestry. The AK PARTY governments, who are aware of this, have launched a mobilisation campaign for a greener Turkey. In this framework, a five-year campaign under the protection of our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, launched in 2008, aimed at planting, erosion control and rehabilitation in 2.3 million hectares. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The work, which has been 75,000 hectares a year in our country in the past year, has reached 400,000 hectares a year in the government of the EC, reaching the highest record of forestry in the 170,000 hectares in 2009. This record has made our country the third most plant-thorned country in the world, after China and India, by the FAO. Again, as part of this campaign, all public institutions and schools, hospitals, places of worship, graveyards, and land roads have been planted. As a result of these studies, our forests in our country have increased in quality and quantity. In 1973, our forest area, 20.2 million hectares, increased 21.1 in 2005, and 21.7 million in 2011. So in the last 30 years, the annual growth of the forest area has increased to 30,000 hectares, while this has increased to 70,000 hectares during seven years of AK PARTI rule.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0337par0320	So you didn't work at all when you were principal.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0336par0321	Congressmans, one of the biggest threats of our country's forests is forest fires. With fast and efficient fire management systems and equipment developed in this area, Turkey today has become a major force in its region in combating forest fires, it can go to help countries across borders and borders, and it can export technology. We owe this success to the AK PARTY governments and our Ministry employees. On this occasion, I welcome the forest workers who were martyrs in the battle of the forest fire once again. Deputies, national parks and nature parks have made major breakthroughs in both numerical and quality. Our national number of parks has been increased from 33 to 43, and our number of parks has been increased from 17 to 182. As part of the fight against desertification, the work of avalanches and landslide control and plans to reform the basin in 28 basins. In addition, the national basin database, the tracking system of desertification, the erosion and sedimentation monitoring system, the study of forest and plant changes has been launched. The ministry has developed many investments and policies for the preservation and sustainable use of water resources. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In nine years, 1,128 facilities, including the dam and HES, were offered to our nation's service. I thank all ministry employees once again for their successful work towards the fulfillment of the Great Turkey ideal, our Minister himself, wishing our country well, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0338par0328	Thank you. Mr. Ali Gültekin Sword. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0339par0332	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Forests and Water Affairs budget in the Central Management Budget Bill of 2013. I salute your high council. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are one of our country's most important investors' ministries, along with our Forest and Water Affairs Ministry, along with its subsidiaries, in the budget of 13 billion and 851 million and $138,000 in 2013. The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs invested $50.6 billion across the country from 2003 to 2012. When we look at it, it's not hard to predict how big investments are being made. In this figure, the size of investments, especially made by the State Water Affairs General Directorate, is 46.1 billion TL. In particular, I would like to share here a number of investments from countless projects that have been year-long cravings and dreams of ending with our AK PARTY powers over the last decade. China's Adnan Menderes Dam was a dream for a hundred and forty-four years. The AK PARTY was finished in power and began to hold water. This is a source of pride for our country. China's Adnan Menderes Dam is an important place in China to meet its need for water during the extremities and irrigation season in Cogarli and Söke plains. Since the beginning of the water-holding process, tens of thousands of acres have been prevented from watering the plain and has protected our farmer from millions of dollars' worth of damage. Besides, two days ago, the Menderes River corrections were scheduled and completed during the AK PARTI administrations, with the Karacasu Dam opening by our Prime Minister, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and a number of watering and drinking water projects linked to it. Not only are these investments satisfied, new dams and ponds and our country's 50-year-old irrigation and drinking water projects are being implemented. The AK PARTY takes the service bar one step further each day, competing with itself and its services. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, our Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs has launched the National Arbor Expedition to increase our country's forest presence. The goal is to increase forest areas covering 27.7 per cent of our country to 30 per cent by 2023. Then we'll have the largest forest in the history of the Republic. We are now among the top three countries in the world in the wooding work. I hereby congratulate our Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu, the ministry's employees, all of our people who have contributed to and will give us the opportunity to achieve this goal. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the 111 urban forests so far, 116 honey forest, 1,441 mercurial areas should not be overlooked. Our country was ranked five in the world's production of honey, while it was ranked number two in the work. In addition, the 2012-2016 action plan includes 13,000 hectares of walnuts, 19,000 hectares of almond trees and the construction of peanut pine forests. Along with all this work, significant distances have been taken in combating forest fires. The 30-minute fire response period has been reduced to 18 minutes, which is intended to be reduced to 15 minutes. The legal arrangement for resolving problems in forest areas known as 2/B has opened the way for the government to reunite with its citizen. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the world's clean water supply is dwindling day by day and its access to clean water resources is becoming difficult. We can now use 44 billion cubic metres of our available water sources, which are now 112 billion cubic metres. In our country, 51% of the water per year is lost in the grid system. Investments in this matter are one of our government's top policies. During our governments, the planning of water use was very important, not to save the day, but to provide water supplies for our cities by 2050-2060, all projects have been carefully studied. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish you the best of the Central Management Budget Law in 2013, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0340par0342	Thank you. Mr. Hüseyin Samani of Antalya, please.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0341par0345	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the budget for the meeting of the Forest General Directorate. I salute you all. As it is known, forests are one of our most renewable sources of course. In our world and in our country, it has become even more important to manage the value of the forests and forest resources in a sustainable way during a growing process of global warming and climate change. One of the most important measures against global warming and climate change is to increase our forest presence. For this purpose, on 1 January 2008, the National Forestification Expedition was launched in our country, which our government supported and closely followed. Five years ago, two and a half million hectares were targeted for reforestation, erosion control and healing of corrupt forests, and by the end of this year, 2.4 million hectares of work have exceeded program targets. The battle against forest fires has been a record success, and as far as the year 2003-2011, it is clear between Mediterranean countries how successful our country is in fighting forest fires. In receiving these positive results, the brutal work of the forest organization has had a great share in improving infrastructure and developing emergency and rapid response strategies. Forest crime, on the other hand, has taken on a major decline trend and has dropped 40 percent from ten years ago. By the time we reached our forest areas, our forest area, 20.2 million hectares in 1972, where the first regular inventory was held, increased by 1.4 million hectares in 2012 to 21.6 million hectares. Our country has managed to become one of the few countries to grow its forests. The role of the protection and sustainable benefit policy, which the Forest General Directorate has been decisively implementing in this success, has been great. The goal of raising our forest existence from 27 to 30 per cent in 2023, the 100th year of our Republic, is above all recognition. In this period, the rehabilitation of the forests, the development and rehabilitation of forests have been highly appreciated. In the past years, the average annual rehabilitation of 5,000 hectares of broken forest areas has been conducted, while today there have been annual programmes that have reached 300,000 hectares, and these programmes are more than capable of doing so. In particular, in the last five or six years, forest cadastro studies have been accelerated, and at the end of 2011, 18 million 750 hectares of cadaver work have been completed in the area of the forest. A total of 18 million,750,000 hectares of forest area has been registered in the last year, with a total of 4,1 million hectares of land and a total of 18,750,000 hectares completed so far. As of 2012, about 16 million and 250,000 hectares of land were registered. The remaining studies continue for the registration of some 2,500,000 hectares. The 2/B Act, which is one of the major problems of our government and our people, is above all recognition. One of the major changes in recent years is that the forests near our cities are organized as urban forests to meet the needs of the people of the city. No doubt our jungle villagers are the ones who will cooperate hard in protecting and running our forests. The forest villagers continue to seek the highest use of forest resources and increase their income levels. Over the course of this year, the forest peasant has been contributed a total of $1 billion,279 million, including production activities, legal rights, discount sales, other activities. In 2013, it was also put into the budget for loans for $105m to the family of more than 20,000 forest villagers. The support and contributions to the forest peasant will continue to grow further next semester. Dear lawmakers appreciate the work done to protect and improve our forests, and I congratulate all workers of the forest service who work in wooding, and all those who work from forest service to county and county directorate. I wish you all the best in the year 2013 budget of the Director General of the Forest, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0342par0356	Thank you. Elazığ MP Faruk Septioğlu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0343par0360	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget of our State Water Affairs General Directorate, and I hereby salute the General Assembly. I'd like to thank everyone who's been working on the 2013 budget as I begin my speech. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, I will never compare what the EC PARTI government has done with what the previous authorities have done, but I will once again reveal the power of our power and the magnitude of what our government has done by telling them what it has done. From the day we came to power, we made great strides in the DSI, as in all other institutions. Just two days ago, by the participation of our Prime Minister, 112 giant artifacts were launched, and 2 million 345,000 per cent of agricultural land was watered and 2.581 megawatt boards were powered to produce 8 billion 393 million kilowatts of hydroelectric production per year. Between 2003-2012, the DSI opened 206 dams, 24 ponds, 179 irrigation facilities, 49 cities drinking water, 643 floods of protection facilities and 1,128 facilities, including other transportation and service buildings. A total of 79 facilities, including 12 dams, 39 floods, 8 large floods, 15 drinking water and 5 waste water treatment facilities, were targeted in 2013 as part of the DSI General Directorate's large water projects, and 439 polluting plants, including small waterworks, and overflowing of water, and watering of ponds and ponds. As a government that understands the importance of state waterworks, we raised the state waterworks budget, which was $1,380,000 in 2002, to $8,833,000 in 2013. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, no stopping, keep moving. The AK PARTI government, which is acting on principle, has met both the need for water for our people and the country's land, with facilities built for this purpose, has watered 11 million acres. In addition to Istanbul, 34 million citizens were given additional water. 3.622 dehydrated villages and links to a networked drinking water plant. We also renovated the drinking water plant of 33.497. We made a big move in hydroelectric energy, up from 28 billion kilowatts to 69 billion kilowatts. Besides, we've saved 225 hectares of land. Mr. President, I'd like to share with you some of the activities performed by the DSI in Elazığ, my constituency district. Between 2003-2012, there were one irrigations, three ponds and waterings, 25 floods and floods in Elazığıg, while an investment of 94 million and 767 thousand liras was made. During 2013, Kuzova Pumpage Waterwater was intended to be completed as part of its big water project and under the small water supply of the Gullabat. Again, the tender for Winged Dam, which has been completed, is scheduled for later this year. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As a party dedicated to public service...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0344par0374	Thank you, Mr. Septioğlu.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0343par0375	...the target is approaching 2023. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the 2013 budget to be good for our country, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0344par0379	Mr. Aydın, you've given your friends five minutes each, so... the next time I rule, please give your friends a little more than that.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0345par0380	God bless, there's so many of them.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0344par0381	That's true, too. Yes, Burdur MP Hasan Hami Yıldırım. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0346par0385	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group regarding the budget of the State Water Affairs General Directorate. As I begin my words, I salute you all. The DSI General Directorate is the most influential investor in our country responsible for protecting drinking water basins and overall developing water resources. It operates in many sectors and fields from agriculture to energy, from basin protection to land collection. Agricultural irrigation, drinking, and use of industrial water was opened to operate by building 272 dams and 461 ponds in early 2012, for the purpose of production of hydroelectric energy and extremism. They were added to 16 dams and 14 more ponds in 2012. The construction of 158 dams is still under way. About 11 per cent of the face measurement of Turkey is made up of eight and a half million hectares of economic waterable land, which has been watered by 66 per cent in early 2012. As part of the Lake Lake Project, which began in 2012, another 426,000 hectares of land were scheduled to be watered with ponds by 2014. As of the end of 2012, 367 HES projects have a total power of 19,500 megawatts, making up 42 per cent of our annual capacity to produce electricity. All of our total hydraulic energy potential has been targeted to be evaluated by 2023, including environmental and social issues. A total of 3.6 billion cubic metres of water has been provided by the end of 2012 to provide long-term drinking and industrial water supplies for cities. A total of 3 billion cubic metres of additional water per year will be provided when projects in the ongoing, planned and final project phase are completed. The DSI has also taken over the construction of wastewater collection and treatment facilities since 2007. Still, in our provinces such as Tekirdağ, Çorum, Yozgat, Tripoli, six separate dams of wastewater collecting and desalination facilities, projects and constructions continue. Honourable MPs, successful projects have been carried out by the DSI in Burdur Province. Karaman, Karaman, Karataş, Koz tree, Lakehisar, Bademli, Çavdir, Belkaya and Bucaca watering projects, which have been taken into operation, have been watered with a total of 42,300 hectares. In our province, the hydraulic energy field has completed master planning of Bucak Red, Bucak Elsazi Regulator and HES, Gölhisar Leafy and Sergeant Geriz Regulator and HES projects. Between 2003-2012, three dams were completed, four irrigations, three ponds and watering, and 30 surges and flood control were completed. 14 irrigations and 11 ponds continue. During this period, the price of the year 2012 was invested in the province of Burdur at $224,500,000. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we see the great achievements of the AK PARTI governments in every field here, with full clarity. The EC PARTY vision will undoubtedly have major contributions to the fulfillment of its 2023 and 2071 goals. With this feeling and thinking, our DSI General Directorate and the Ministry are celebrating their successful work, wishing our nation the best of the 2013 budget.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0347par0399	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Hatay MP Mehmet Önturk... [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0348par0403	Mr. President, I have been promised to discuss the budget of the General Directorate of Meteorological Affairs. I hereby salute the High Council. The General Directorate of Meteorological Affairs is one of our major institutions due to its duties and functions. He has taken on an important task to improve life, to help reduce the natural causes of production to a minimum. Meteorology serves many different sectors, such as transport, agriculture, national defence, health, tourism, energy, forestry and environment, and therefore, it has great benefits to the national economy and its defences. The General Directorate of Meteorology operates a network of systems of different types and properties throughout the country to make observations that are the basis for meteorological products and services. The observation network includes a total of 755 automatic meteorological observatorys, 10 meteorological radars, 8 high atmosphere observation stations, including 657 (657) automatic air, and 42. In addition to these observation stations, high-performance supercomputer systems, where meteorological products and services are a major contributor to the preparation of advanced technology and weather forecasting models, services are continued to be given at the highest level with the high-performance calibration centre, cloudiness, rain, heat, snow cover, forest fires, sea conditions and dust, such as satellites, location-taking systems, Economic Co-operation Agency countries. Dear friends, there are 24 hours of uninterrupted service at 65 airports with the purpose of providing meteorological support needed by the aviation sector for safe flight. The meteorological General Directorate, also making an important breakthrough in the service to the seas, filled a significant gap in sea-watching, with 40 marine auto-surveillance stations being deployed in 2012. Five days of air and radar, air and sea forecasts from the Straits of Gibraltar to the Sea of Caspian are delivered to all regional sailors from Piri Reis Maritime Pages. The Marina forecast system provides weather forecasts for sailors and tourists at three hours intervals. Co-operating with the Forest General Directorate against forest fires that threaten our country's forest existence, its meteorological early warning system determines the risks of forest fire, and the necessary measures are taken in advance by alerting relevant institutions and organisations. The General Directorate of Meteorology is also actively involved in work on reducing our country's dependence on energy and the use of renewable energy sources. The MGM, which controls the installations and measurements of measuring stations, has thus far been applied for the installation of 543 solar and 23 wind stations. The MGM supports countries in the region for climate forecasting as the eastern Mediterranean Regional climate centre. Agricultural sector is one of the major sectors where the General Directorate of Meteorology offers services. For our conscious manufacturers, it's essential. It is very important for agriculture to be known in advance of agricultural frost events, to have the best crop and harvest times known, to be able to achieve drought and rain analysis, according to weather conditions for products to be produced. In recent years, measures must also be taken for increasing timeless rains and droughts under the influence of global warming. Just two days ago, investments in dams, drinking water, irrigation, extremism, meteorological observation stations were launched within 112 facilities that cost 16 billion TL, which our Prime Minister opened. Hatay, also in my constituency, is doing serious work on this matter. In 2015, the Karachay Dam, hopefully, will be launched in 2014, and a tender is scheduled to be held at the beginning of 2013 for the upgrade of the Woodöpru Dam. With these measures, the irrigated areas, both from extremities and from drought, will water and contribute to the economy. Despite all these measures, our producers must make sure that half the insurance costs are covered by the Ministry of Agriculture, where our farmers are insured by their products and taken precautions. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish our budget of 2013 to be a blessing, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0349par0413	Thank you. Mr. Gulay Samancı... [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0350par0417	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the 2013 Turkish Water Institute budget. I salute the High Council. The foundation of life and civilization, a vital natural resource for humans and other creatures, has been a strategic substance throughout history, and as we all know, water, which is a natural resource, is not infinite. The whole world is struggling with climate change, desertification, loss of biodiversity, air pollution, water pollution, floods, as well as the inequality of access to resources and poverty tied to it. In order to eliminate current water problems, water investments needed to be weighted, infrastructure work on drinking and using water, and long-term plans for water treatment, dehydration, and drinking water plants during our AK PARTI rule have been made. With the most information spent on agriculture, modern irrigation techniques, such as dripping watering, are now watered with less water, and water quality of rivers and lakes is measured at specific intervals. The latest technologies have been mobilized, efficient results from investments to deliver water from areas where water is abundant to areas where water is needed. In this area, huge investments have been made, and one of them is the KOP project, which has been expected for many years, among the important projects that will bring the Plains of Iconia to watery agriculture. In this context, as part of the KOP project, 414 million cubic metres of water per year will be poured from the Blue Tunnel and from the Skywater basin to the Conium closed basin to the Plain of Conium. The KOP project will fill the Plains of Conconium with water. Thus, the Plains of Iconia will end in longing for water, and a great dream will be fulfilled by our government of the EC PARTY. We will open the Blue Tunnel on 16 December 2012 with the participation of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Dear lawmakers, despite the growing need for populations and water, the lack of available water resources, for reasons such as environmental pollution and climate change, or dehydration of quality, have made the water problem the world's most important agenda. In this scope, the direction of future work on water is established by the Government of Turkey's 658th Amendment, which is published in the Official Journal on November 2, 2011, in order to develop a short and long-term water management strategy, to provide co-direction between institutions and institutions that are engaged in water-related tasks, to develop strategies for the resolving of the global water issue. The work of the Istanbul-based institution, which was founded very recently, is very important. The international conference, hosted by the Turkish Water Institute, was held in Istanbul in October, according to the work the institution has done in 13 months. At this conference, water management was discussed in cross-border basins, harmonisation of climate change, river reform and conservation of water ecosystems. SUEN, an example of his work, continues to teach all over the world. Azerbaijan and Iraq were taught about drinking water and waste water. SUEN has done 12 projects of wastewater treatment facilities in the Ergene basin, and has been working on the flow and quality of underground water in the Ceylannar region. Dear lawmakers, it is one of our most basic tasks to understand the place and importance of water in society and living life, to develop the awareness that water is being used in the most efficient way and by austerity. For our country, the Turkish Water Institute, which operates effectively to ensure the global sustainability of life resources, in order to improve the awareness of fair water use in the world, including the taking of the most effective decisions on all levels, in order to protect, develop, plan, use water levels, and govern, wishes that the 2013 budget be good for our country, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit06spe0351par0425	Thank you. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0351par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 40th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2011 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The 8th round of talks is now in place.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0352par0006	Mr. President, we want positive discrimination on the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0351par0007	Long live evil.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0353par0009	But the citizen won't understand now.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0351par0010	No, no, he got it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0353par0011	Mr. President, the citizen won't understand.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0354par0012	Mr. President, they'll take this the wrong way.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0351par0013	Long live evil. Three ladies and the headmistress are ladies, four ladies.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0354par0015	We want positive discrimination.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0351par0016	The men fell into the minority. (Laughter) So I said, "Long live evil." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We took pictures, we took pictures. And it would have been even better if there was a lady minister there. Yeah, well, thank you for noticing, thank you. Yeah, it's people's turn. Lehte, İstanbul MP Ahmet Berat Çonkar. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go. Mr. Aydın, your group is in good shape.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0355par0024	Yes, thanks to you, Mr. President, you're in good shape.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0351par0025	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0356par0026	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of myself in the 8th round of budget talks. I hereby salute the General Assembly. At the beginning of my talk, I'd like to share with you some of my findings on the world economy. The financial crisis, which emerged in 2008 and dramatically rocked Western developed countries, has become a global recession that has negatively affected all countries as far as we're concerned. The political and social impacts of this process over the past five years have been very severe in many countries, and as a result, the economic status of the political system has been severely questioned. The enormous losses caused by lack of control in the financial system, excessive profit ambition and uncontrollable debt tools have been brought down on the lower and middle classes of communities, using public budget resources, printing free money and raising public debt. Excessive liberal economic policies, especially in the West, cost large communities of economic measures, shaped by the interests of giant corporations controlling capital, and have resulted in political depressions in many countries. With these problems on a global scale, macroeconomic balances have improved in parallel with the establishment of political stability in our country and the improvement of democratic standards, and Turkey's economy has become the focus of the world's attention. The achievements of our government in providing and maintaining fiscal discipline, in managing public debt, in continuing economic growth, in developing foreign trade and tourism, in implementing social policies and increased employment are followed by world countries. The increase in foreign investments entering our country, the smooth work of our financial system, the stability of foreign currency rates, the decline in debt interest are the other key factors that separate Turkey from the countries in the crisis. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you some of the numbers and improvements to assess our country's position in the economy. When we took over, our debt to the IMF was 23.5 billion dollars. Now, we're at the point of resetting this debt. As we have not made a new deal with the IMF, we are the country that lends loans to the IMF. Our economy has grown by 5.3 percent in the last nine years. At the rate of 8.5 percent growth in 2011, we became the fastest growing country in Europe. We've also made significant progress in foreign capital investments. Since 2003, $120 billion has been a direct foreign investment in our country. We continue to set records in exports, which is the engine of our economy. Our continuing exports for thirty-two months have reached 151.5 billion dollars as of today, overcoming our goals. We are the third largest export in the world with 13.4% export growth. Cari, there are positive developments out there. In the first nine months of 2011, our current deficit, 60.6 billion dollars, reduced 35 per cent in the first nine months of this year to $39.3.3 billion. This setback is largely due to export growth. In February 2009, unemployment in the 16.1 per cent fell to 8.8 per cent as of August 2012, as a result of rapid recovery and production in the economy. We are in better position than 14 EU member states on unemployment. Inflation follows at a low level of 6.3 per cent, while interest trends continue to decline. When we looked at interest spending in the budget, in 2002, real interest rates were 25.4%; interest costs were at 85.7%. Thanks to our fiscal discipline and successful economic management, the rate of interest revenues has dropped to 17.6 per cent today while real interest is zeroing. Our earlier tax revenues for interest now go to education, health care, transportation, infrastructure, national defenses, R&D and social benefits. Dear lawmakers, all together, working hard, taking advantage of the constructive criticism and contributions of our opposition parties, and carrying out the important structural reforms our country needs, and I wish you all the best of the budget, with faith that we will succeed in making our country one of the most respected and powerful countries in the world in 2023.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0357par0037	Thank you. Minister of Economy Mr. Mehmet Zafer Çağalan. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] There was a cheer. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0358par0042	Mr. President, honorable MPs, first of all, I salute the grand delegation, and I call upon Almighty God to bring blessings to our country, to our nation, to all budgets and all other budgets in the Ministry of Economics. And again, at the very beginning of my speech, there was an operation that was performed on me a few days ago, especially as you, my esteemed President, so I would like to thank you, thank you, thank you, and say that God gives us all health, health, pleasure. Dear President, honorable lawmakers, first of all, I'd like to thank everyone here today for speaking about my Ministry. As always, I'd like to start by expressing in particular the criticism, constructive criticism, once and as Minister that we will make the best of it and give ourselves a direction. You know, at the commission meeting that we did at the Plan and Budget Commission, I sent all the answers to the questions of all of our lawmakers that I couldn't answer because of the lack of time, before I got here, before the budget, in a big pamphlet. I assume our deputies have the answers to the questions they're asking. Yes, first of all, on a few things we've talked about, I particularly want to bring to your attention a few things to clear up the confusion in the minds. The situation has now been passed through the world, especially in a variety of ways by our lawmakers, in which developed economies, developing countries, and at least developed countries have been affected from time to time by this economic performance, and the development of growth in both Turkey and the world economy. But I want to make it very clear that there's no way to change the numbers in the middle in any way, and there's no way to interfere with them. Turkey is a country with an average of 5.25 per cent annual growth success between 2003-2011, and it is the most important, most qualified detail of the success of Turkish industry, the Turkish economy, in particular, in the international field, that this growth has now shown an export-oriented growth performance as of the last quarter. At this point, I'm not going to flood you with numbers. I don't want to drown you with numbers today, especially in the Maastricht Critters, who are trying to apply the Maastricht Critters seriously, in an environment where even those who set these criteria don't fit. But I want to make it very clear that Turkey, on the one hand, is growing economic development, and on the one hand, its income is growing, and on the other hand, it's covering a place that has significant properties in the world economy, and it's continuing to do so day after day. We, as a friend of yours, honored to be a member of this country, not as a politician, but as an ex-industrial, we grew up in the past with stories of growing up in many countries, with stories of economic development success. Remember, we have been told stories of South Korea's successes in the past. The stories of Germany's successes were told in 1945, after the Second World War. We've been told stories of the past achievements of many countries, as I've just explained. But in our field, in our country, in our own country, we didn't have an economic success story. Thank God, I am truly thankful that Turkey now has a success story, and there is a Turkey in 2008 that has achieved more important success than a global crisis, as our Prime Minister stated.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0359par0052	The Republic is a success story, Minister. The founding of the Republic, the revolutions of our Great Leader, are a success story. Please, thank those times as well.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0358par0053	Friends, you can make an opposition, gladly. We'll do it to each other, we're the power, we're the opposition. It's not against the nature of things, but please, in order to make Turkey an opposition, let's avoid making Turkey look bad at its achievements, and at this point, Turkey is a country that now has an economic success story, thank you, wherever you go, and I'm the Minister of Economy of this country, and I'm proud of it. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Now, this is going to grow economically from one side without IMF assistance and without any involvement in the banking system, and you're going to grow on the other side, and you're going to reduce unemployment today. My dear friends, yes, today I have often understood the difficulty of opposition. Indeed, opposition is difficult. Criticize what? You can't criticize growth, you can't criticize exports, you can't criticize unemployment. I try to address you in such an environment by understanding the difficulty of opposition. And I say, look, today Turkey is talking to us about Turkey's success in recent years -- as your friend going all over the world, not being a fan of travel -- and representatives of all countries coming from the world to our country. Is that enough? Of course not. Look, I gave a speech recently, and on top of that, the esteemed leader of the main opposition party expressed my opinion, but they didn't just read the first part of the sentence and read the second part. Yes, I said our 2023 targets are extremely important. Thank God, we've developed a program about 11 years later, in an environment where many countries of Europe don't know what's going to happen ten days from now, and in 2023, 500 billion dollars in exports, 2 trillion dollars in domestic property and 25 million dollars per person, we've now established a Turkish ▪ in a situation where we don't know what's going to happen, and as we go to 2023, we're not going to be able to achieve that with the current system. Look, I'm gonna say it again from this stand, for the record.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0360par0058	That's the truth, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0358par0059	Yes, with this industry understanding of Turkey, with this industry mentality of the industry and with our production structure today, it can't catch 2023, but it can't catch 2023. When I said, I expressed how we're going to catch it behind it, and I said: Turkey has come to a scissor change. Turkey has now entered into an industrial mind-changing and transformation because Turkey has come to this point today because of past faulty policies, faulty incentive policies -- which I, too, had rebelled as an industrialist years ago -- unfortunately, has come to this point today because of faulty policies. You're talking about imports, exports, and even some of our friends would have to import $80 to export $100. Guys, I'm having a hard time understanding where you get a number like that, how you come up with it. Look, I'll tell you the truth, if anyone really wants to learn about it. Today, Turkey has to import $43, industry because it has no industrial strategy, because it has no industrial inventory, and because the incentive system is not installed on these, because it has to import $43 to produce $100 in our country today. If it's a number, it's a number. What are you going to do as a government? Now, what we want to do is, look, we've done industrial inventory, we've done GOCES, and we've just brought in a new incentive system, and we've set two conditions that are essential to our new incentive system: high-velocity value, high-tech technology. So whatever you are, just come. We've come out of understanding and we've come to an understanding in our country that both in production and exports, the value of adding more and more and higher prices will support the investment and production of products. We've brought important support for innovation in the matter of RD. Now, we have to get our industrialist into this lane. I've lived as an industrialist's reflexer for 27 years, and at this point, in our new incentive system, we're hoping that we're going to do 2023 with this road map. Not only are we going to do this, we're going to change our logistics. We're going to increase our energy capacity to two today, we're going to increase our transport capacity to at least two, and while we're doing that, we're going to do important work at the point of increasing the quality of Turkey's labourforce supply. And while we're doing all of this, thanks to the fact that Turkey today -- I don't know how much you like unemployment rates -- I highly appreciate the 8.8 per cent in today's terms, and 8.8 per cent today is less than the average unemployment of 14 EU countries -- look, 14 EU countries -- even 8 euros, and for the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, 25.5 million people have been employed. Again, is that enough? It's not enough. Of course, we have a lot of miles to go, a lot of miles to go, but we're putting the milestones on them one by one. On the other hand, why did Turkey leave this global crisis without a blow? Some of my friends criticized me, and they said, "Sir, Turkey's debt is high." They said, "We collect Turkey's domestic and external debt, we divide it into illegal domestic revenues, 39.4% as of last year; 36% as of this year.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0361par0066	It's public, but it's just public...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0358par0067	Look, I'm talking about the public.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0361par0068	What about the private sector's debt?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0358par0069	Now, my dear Yellow, look, let me put it this way, my friends, that you bring in the debt of the private sector and write it to the public. Now, I'm going to ask you, for God's sake, the logic of writing the private sector's debt to the public.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0361par0070	What happened in 2001? The private sector debt is public debt!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0362par0071	Let's not hurry, let's listen!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0358par0072	Now, why did I owe me my brother and the industrialist from Ali the industrialist's debt to the grocery store?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0361par0073	How do I care?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0358par0074	Look, Mr. Müslim, let me tell you, why did the industrialist borrow money? Let's talk about it. Did the industrialist go out and build a casino with this debt, and the industrialist spent this debt somewhere else? The industrialist made modernisation investments with these figures, which are important to him in order to achieve the level of export numbers that we've come to today, the level that we've come to in production. So don't be afraid of the outside debt the industrialist made today. The industrialist is not as anxious to make an external loan as you are because the industrialist has already signed below the amount he can pay. So for God's sake, don't write down the debt of a private sector, if there is another argument, and again, today we are better off than 23 EU countries, and we are much better at budget deficits than 21 EU countries. I'll tell you about the gold in exports in a little while -- some of the things that are very speculative and misunderstood. Before I came to him, my friends, now, in our export last year, the European Union's share was 48 per cent, 58 per cent ten years ago. At the level we've come today, the European Union's share of our exports has dropped to 38 per cent. We, with the European Union, which we've done half of our exports, we've done almost a quarter of our exports -- expressed by speakers -- especially in North Africa and the Middle East -- despite the hardship, we haven't increased our exports from where we sit. As we increased our exports, we made a variety of markets, and the export contribution that we've made in three years is today at a minimum of 28-29 billion dollars, and thank God, I'm proud to say, proudly, and in front of our entire nation, I offer my heart and thanks to the 55 thousand exporters who produced Turkey today. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, today Turkey, friends, has exported goods like 151.5 billion dollars of lions in the last 12 months. Now we have to brag about it, why are we afraid of it? And in return, the imports were reduced, and in return, the current deficit was reduced. Cari needs to go even lower than the level we've come to in the decline of the deficit, and we can certainly agree on that, the way of the mind is one, but the current is clear last year, and when we look at this year, we see that our external trade deficit has decreased because of our export growth, and the current deficit has decreased. Dear friends, in the first ten months of last year, our current deficit was about $65 billion. Look, in the first ten months of this year, our current deficit has dropped to $41.1 billion. There's a $23.8 billion current rate in between. Now, what's really important is where this $23.8 billion current fall comes from.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0363par0080	No sweet exports with Iran!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0358par0081	I'll tell you about Iran in a moment, all of it. Don't worry, I'll tell you all about it. The $23.8 billion deficit decline... look, please, I'll tell you the numbers, there might be a need, there really is a need to take notes. The $23.8 billion deficit reduction, my friends, is caused by an increase in exports of $18.1 billion, and reduced only $4.9 billion due to imports. (AK PARTY) Turkey has dropped the current deficit due to an increase in exports in service and goods, such as 18 billion dollars, lions. Isn't that what we wanted? Isn't what we're calling an open business the difference between income and expense? And Mr. Ayhan, who just told me that we're addicted to imports in Turkey, said that I have nothing to fear from explaining imports; of course, we've gone out, we've explained; we've detected failure, we've identified in what sectors, and we've designed the new incentive system on this, and I want to rephrase that at the point where we're here today, the incentive system will be an important drug at the point of reducing imports and importing products outside of Turkey's energy. In particular, investments within strategic investments are going to be extremely important, and at this point, let's not forget that we have the lowest current number of the last 35 months as we reduce our current deficit. This is an extremely important development. Now, he's out in the open, sir, he's gold in exports. Friends, for God's sake, I'm asking you... in 1967, at 65, when my father was in third grade, you will study and work... God bless my father. And I got into college in 1975. I studied and worked as a worker, as an actual worker, as an iron worker. I finished college in 1979, started working in early 80. I didn't learn industry, production, economy, exports, investment, unemployment from books. I've come from the school of life, and I've seen it live, and there's a rule in business today. What you call trade, you sell a product you buy somewhere else. If you sell it in, it's internal trade, and if you sell it out, it's called export. In your product, trade is sometimes selling with 1 in a thousand, sometimes 1 per cent, sometimes 10 per cent.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0363par0083	Well, that's payment, Mr. Secretary, not exports.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0358par0084	Industrial production, you call it, is changing the physics of a product. You buy it, you produce it; you sell it in, you sell it in, you export it, it's called export. Now, I'm asking you: why in God's name do we come and hang out under our exports of more than 20,000 products? Gold is not a property made from the government to the government. Our friend who made our statement... sir, I read in the press that this was done in exchange for oil, for natural gas. Guys, this isn't real.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0364par0085	Mr. Babacan told me.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0358par0086	While Turkey is paying for its euro, its gas, its natural gas in euros and TLs, today the private sector in Iran is taking its property from the private sector in Turkey, and the banks and the banks that have not been sanctioned or sanctioned...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0364par0087	Is Mr. Ali Babacan wrong?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0358par0088	I'm telling you, I'm telling you. I just told you. Private banks also mediate, and this trade is being made. Now I'm asking you, what if we sell apples, pears, oranges, machines, paper, software, information, and this is exports, for God's sake, when it's gold, brother? And exports of gold, as well as exports of gold. Thus, Turkey will continue to sell and sell to whoever demands this export. I'm asking you guys, where were you last year? Four billion dollars last year when we were out in the gold foreign trade, why didn't you say any of you friends, one minute, because of gold, the foreign trade deficit is not $105 billion, it's 101 billion. Now, when you're importing, you don't have a voice; when you're exporting, when you're different, you say, "Where did this come from?" You say, "Where did this come from?" Even if you wanted to? Even if you didn't want to, why didn't say any of you, friends will continue export all products by sticking to legitimate roads and international agreements. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Now, there's another mistake under there. Today, $11.9 billion in gold exports were made. We have about $6.9 billion in imports; in between, like lions, we have $5 billion in exports, we have an extra foreign trade. Guys, $5 billion of this is last year's import. If you have it here, it's worth a drop, or it's gold that comes out of under the pillow. So in the gold trade, we sell 60 percent of $11.9 billion of gold to Iran, and we sell about 30 percent of it to the United Arab Emirates, and to many countries of Europe, especially Switzerland. Look, I'm telling you again, we're going to keep selling, but -- again -- this is never a payment tool. And I want to make that very clear as a friend who's responsible for exports, imports, and all of that.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0365par0091	And if so, would the Supreme Court be a crime?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0358par0092	Now, I'm telling you that a proposal has just been made, especially about the gemstones, Mr. Ayhan has made you an offer: you know, when a discount on precious stones was given earlier -- in gold, in jewelry -- that's what Mr. Prime Minister's name is called -- that's what they're doing.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0366par0093	Mr. Secretary, it happens in other laws. Are you listening to us, then?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0358par0094	Now, I have a concrete proposition for you in the sale of the OTV, a concrete offer. Now, if you're complaining about it, come, let's join him in his opposition to his power, and tomorrow morning we'll offer him a law, and we'll all remove the WITS of these jewels. You up for that? Look, I'm in, I'm offering: come, let's do this tomorrow.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0366par0095	Minister, are you asking us about another law?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0358par0096	On the other hand, friends, we, of course, have a lot of factors when we export; markets, exports, euro-dolar parite-- look, if we just exported this year with the euro-dollar parite of last year, we would have $5.9 billion more exports in the first ten months. Look, I'll tell you again: if last year's parite had been this year, our exports would have been $5.9 billion more, so the increase in exports would have been 18.7%, not 13.4%. I'm coming back from here, and I'm saying that we've been good players in exports of goods, service exports, contractors in the world, contractors in the world, total contractors in Turkey from 2002 to 1972, out-of-country jobs, friends, $44 billion. Do you know how much has increased from 2003 to today? What did we put on it? We've put four floors in, 184 billion dollars is just foreign jobs from 2003 to 2011. Look, we've only bought four times the amount of jobs that have been taken over the past 40 years, and there are some very important gains that the development industry, the tourism sector, has brought to Turkey. So, together with the new incentive system, we're developing the service sector, on the one hand the trade in goods, and we're starting to give very important support to the health sector, to the education sector. We started giving Turquality important support for the brand, and I had a study done at my ministry. Friends, we're exporting. But how much do we do the kilogram of exports for? So I know I'll take care of it, and my export price last year is $1.47. This year's number is now over $1.50, 52 cents, 53 cents. However, the way we capture the $500 billion exports in 2023 is by raising our export kilograms to $2.3. How do we do that? So we're going to do it with RD, innovation, high-velocity and high-tech. In this sense, I would like to tell you from here the latest figures regarding the incentive system, which was introduced on June 20th, when our incentive system became particularly important. Yes, see, from June 20th to December 14th -- so to date -- a total of 2.120 incentives have been filed, and in return, an investment of $32.7 billion has been envisioned, and in return, it has been envisioned to employ 84,830 jobs in this short period of time, and in particular, strategic investments -- in terms of imports, which are very important in terms of current business investments. If these 9 incentive applications are also encouraged, if considered strategic investment, $8.8 billion will come from here, and as of now, Turkey will face an investment of $40 billion in the incentive system from June 20th to now. Yes, we see the incentive system is bearing fruit, and strategic investments will be an investment of $15 billion, along with these incentive documents. This means that these investments will reduce Turkey's imports, increase its production, increase its export ability and capacity and quality. So, again, I want to make it very clear that we've based all of our work on these particular systems. On the one hand, we make free trade deals, we apply a significant amount of commercial diplomacy to all countries. On the one hand, we have a very important business connection with the very important work we've done, with all the purchase committees, and with all the trips we've made abroad. Thankfully, today is not the day in our country when a foreign statesman, a prime minister, a minister, a foreign delegation. We have to be thankful for that, we really need to be grateful for that, and those who come to Turkey today, friends, are not coming to watch Turkey, or, as I was President of the Industrial Chamber in 2001, they're not coming to you with a list of companies that are going to be bought. Now, they're coming to invest in my country. From 1923 to 2003, only $14.5 billion of foreigners have received direct capital, and from 2003, we have invested more than $120 billion directly. Friends, these show Turkey's political stability, confidence. (AS/TK) Turkey shows its labour force supply, showing Turkey's logistical advantage. These show the progress of political and economic stability in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0367par0100	The economy of Turkey has fallen into the hands of foreigners, Mr. Secretary; you sold the banks, you sold the TELECOM!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0358par0101	No one goes to an investment country on the terms of that country, for 15 years, 20 years.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0368par0102	The rate of alienation in banks is 15% in the world, and we are 75% in the world, Mr. Secretary. Let's not twist those numbers!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0358par0103	So I'd especially like to inform you about this, and I'd like to finish by saying: Just a moment ago, Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, a valued deputy of ours, gave a report card to the government. Friends, only the nation gives the report card of governments, political parties (Applause from the AK PARTY) and the nation of the Republic of Turkey in 2002, 34.28 per cent to the EC PARTİ, 19 per cent to CHP; 46.58 per cent to the EC PARTİ, 20.87 to CHP; 49.83 per cent to the AK PARTİ; today there is a vote over 51.5 per cent to the CHP; 2007 to the EC PARTİ; 2007 to the EC PARTİ, 46.58 per cent to the CHP, 20.87 per cent to the CHP; 2011 to the AK PARTİ; today it has placed a clear vote on the CHP.8 per cent. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Citizens, we don't give good grades to your report card. With that thought, I salute the grand jury, and thank you all.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0369par0111	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0370par0112	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary says that the Germans, the Japanese, have stories of success...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0358par0113	Economic success.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0370par0114	He said the Republic didn't have an economic success story. I think there's been an injustice to this 80-year-old republic. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to sum up eighty-nine years in three minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0371par0115	I can't give you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0372par0116	Eighty-nine years won't fit in three minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0370par0117	Mr. President, you're already giving me two minutes, but since an entire republic has been wronged...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0373par0118	Mr. President, that's not going to happen; there's no teasing, there's nothing.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0374par0119	Oh, I see, Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0370par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. It was unfair, of course. The 1923 budget was 10 liras, and the Ottoman debt was 70 liras, seven times more. These people paid for them. In 1925 he took the tobacco regime from the French. He took salt businesses, ports, railroads from foreigners. He built the SECA, the ETIBANK, the SUMERBANK, the sugar mills. He built iron steel factories. He taught the peasant boy how to play the violin. Isn't that unfair? So let's put our hands on our conscience. Isn't Ironel's dams a success story? So he was called the king of the dams in this community. Let's talk about it on our conscience. But isn't it a success project for the Democratic Party to start the roads on land? Isn't the communication revolution of Ozal a success story? Look, Turkey had an internal conflict between 70 and 80. Even in this internal conflict between 70 and 80, Turkey has won Cyprus, with international success. Between 90 and 2000, Turkey has lost more than terrorism, but even then, GAP is a success. It's not fair, you don't ascend by defaming the past. Whatever means you may have done, that is the measure of success. History will also reveal your success. You can't make yourself look like a success by blaming history, slandering the past. There are areas where this republic has succeeded, there are areas where it failed, and there are areas where governments -- all governments in the past -- have succeeded, there are areas where it failed. Mr. Secretary, in this republic, in eighty-nine years, nothing's been done, it's not right for you to get in the mood like you've done everything, it's not fair, it's history, it's disloyal, it's bad for the past, it's bad for the past, it's bad for the past. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But neither Demirel nor Özal have strayed from the republical line, but you are the only ones who have strayed from the republic line. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0375par0131	Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0376par0132	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0375par0133	I didn't see you, okay, let him speak, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0376par0134	Sir, I just wanted to say that we can't accept the fact that we're going off the republic and that the republic is not in anyone's monopoly.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0375par0135	I'll make you a promise, but now that I've called the Minister, I haven't seen you, it would be a shame.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0377par0136	Madam Secretary, since you've come from the new hospital, I've tried with a gentle tone.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0378par0137	I'm not from the hospital, I'm from home.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0375par0138	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[Continue]] 1) Economy Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Undersecretary of Foreign Trade: Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Export Development Center 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks 2013 Central Management Budget 2) The Forest and Water Affairs Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The Ministry of Environment and Forests Final Account for Central Management 2011 O) ORMAN GOVERNMENT [[Continue]] 1) The Forest General Directorate's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Forest General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology: Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2013
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0379par0169	Mr. President, I'm here to present the budget bill for the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs in 2013. I salute you all, sir. Of course, the Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks is a ministry responsible for forestry, forestry, erosion control, conservation of wildlife, of course, the protection of all beings, all waterworks, dams, ponds, meteorology. In fact, we have the slogan, the ministry motto, the Ministry of Forests and Water Affairs, that's what we call it. Basically, if there's forest, if there's water, there's life, and I want to make that very clear. Dear President, my esteemed deputies, of course, we are currently trying to serve our country with 68,909 personnel and a budget of about 12 billion euros. First of all, I'd like to brief you on forestry activities. Of course, my time is limited, and I also have some questions, and I want to answer them. Of course, we've actually written epics in forestry, and everyone accepts that. Basically, we're not singing this epic that we wrote. I mean, it's a compliment. Indeed, I am proud of my forest service. In particular, two years ago, when the Secretary General of the OECD arrived in Turkey, he said that Turkey was the world leader under the control of forestry, deforestation and erosion. So our regret is that appreciation comes from the outside, but we'd expect a tribute from all of you. Look, right now we have a forest agency that has increased by 1.4 million hectares in the forest area. So I'd like to stress in particular that in the whole world, forest assets in countries are reduced both as an area of wood and as a source of wood, Turkey is one of the rare countries that increases forest space and wood wealth. You have to appreciate that. And we owe it to the forest service. Look, what's the worth of wood: in 1972, when we were 936 million cubic meters of wood, thank God, we've now raised it to 1.5 million cubic meters in 2012, so this wood fortune has increased by almost 50 percent. Other than that, look, we've started a special mobilization. There's a law against that, but of course, friends have done a study before. Look, when we say treeing, we consider treeing and rehabilitation as a sum. It's the same with the past years and the reports. Look, it's in the report over the past years: we said from January 1st 2008: let's make a big campaign, while the average year only controls 75,000 hectares of wooding and erosion. In fact, when we announce it, when we say we should work in an average of between 450 and 500,000 hectares a year -- that's a really big target -- the forest can't do that. These claims were made, but I trusted my forest service. Indeed, even in 2009, when I said, "Let us exceed a record level, 500,000 hectares." When I said, "In the year of the 170th establishment of the forest organization," our entire organization was locked into this goal. When we looked at the reports at the end of 2009 -- because every district manager works -- we set a really big record with 501,000 hectares. And so far... (CROWD APPLAUSE) Of course, you have to appreciate that. This success, of course, is not my success, but the success of the entire forest organization, the most radical institution in Turkey, and I have expressed pride in them.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0380par0174	Minister, they even gave you the numbers wrong.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0379par0175	Now, let me make it very clear that in this campaign, together with our friends in five years, by the end of 2008-2012, we said, let's work in 2.3 million hectares, but we looked at the figure and we wrote it as a single pen on 12/12/2012, and your friends said: 2,400,000 hectares actually exceeded the goal of Turkey. This is Turkey's pride, so give it a round of applause [[A round of applause from the AK PARTY lines, and from the CHP and MHP rows, welcome!]] You know what a plant is? We've brought 2 billion saplings into the soil, 2 billion saplings! Anyone who doesn't believe can count, so I'll tell you that. Now, we've increased the gardening and rehabilitation sevenfold. Especially look, it's just... of course you needed a sapling. Now, friends know that there are former forestmen here who have only been produced 75 million saplings a year in the past. We raised it to about 535 million a year. Seven times a year, seven times the same institution! [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As a result, look, even earlier, believe me, I'll tell you this: When our Prime Minister became mayor of the city, I was the General Manager of the BSİ; then there was no water, sir, but now there is water, let's plant Istanbul. Now, we give the saplings to public institutions, organizations, all municipalities for free. We've distributed 111,000 saplings to citizens. Where did you... Now, as a result, in the past, the forest service would only be busy running the forest, and it would also be busy in the forest with wooding and rehab. But we've raised the Director General of the Forest to its rightful place, and we've made a great deal of it. Indeed, the Forest General Directorate now sees a function like a ministry and does not just work in the forest anymore, but operates all activities outside the forest.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0381par0182	On what date, for example?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0382par0183	When are you coming to the forest village?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0379par0184	Out of the woods, the school gardens, hospital courtyards, roadsides and temples make all the areas grow until they reach the graveyards. Look, we've planted 21.453 schoolyards. We've got the National Education Department and the Schools Live Project. He's walking. In addition, we planted 7,800 temples and graveyards, 7,382 km road, 2,237 meters of village road, 1,025 hospitals, and the garden of a health clinic. I'd like to make that very clear. In fact, there's information in the book specifically about deforestation. I'm not going into their details. But we didn't just increase plant production, treeing, rehab, forest products tripled, forest products. The number's up. For example, in 2003, only 620 million TL, and in 2012, we raised it to $1 billion,830 million.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0383par0187	What about the diesel, Mr. Secretary, the diesel?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0379par0188	How, of course, was this done? Because our wood wealth has increased, business activity has increased, and in the end, there has been about 3.5 million cubic metres of work in the past, and we have now raised it to 13.5 million cubic metres a year. Here's the difference. Other than that, look, we built city forests. Before that, people were not allowed into the woods, not even animals were allowed in.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0383par0190	You let contractors in!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0379par0191	But we said: "The woods, everything is for man." And so far we've built 111 urban forests, 116 honey forests. You're going to say: "What do you have to do with the honey forest?" There was an app, unfortunately, that earlier, because of the law, animals can't go into the woods, and the bee is an animal, so beekeepers can't go into the forest. We changed that. Right now, we've told our forest agency, "Build honey forests for beekeepers." So whatever kind of honey he wants, pine honey, flower honey, chestnut honey, appropriate for him, with our universities, we've planted a number of necessary species, prepared his water, protected them from pesticides, fertilizers, and we've built 116 honey forests so far.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0384par0193	Let your mouth eat honey Hajji, let your mouth eat honey.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0379par0194	Thank you. That's why, Mr. President, especially before the forest of honey was established, Turkey was the fifth in the world, and now it's the second in the world. I had another meeting with them in Mugla, and I said: "We will give you all kinds of support, but it is not for you to be two, you will rise to the first place in the world."
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0385par0196	Give it up, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0379par0197	Look, I'll tell you, there's never been any walnuts or anything like that before, but right now, we've got a walnut action plan. You see, the walnut action plan, the almond action plan... and I'll tell you what.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0386par0198	There's been walnuts for 50 years, Mr. Secretary, if you like Allah!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0379par0199	My fellow lawmakers, look, I'll tell you this...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0386par0200	The honey forest's been around for 50 years!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0379par0201	But there's no plan of action. We now plant walnuts everywhere and give them for forty-nine years as income providers for citizens.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0387par0202	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary isn't talking about the matter.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0379par0203	Sir, of course, there's so much to say. There was a forest cadastro, made a cadastro of a very small field before us, but without the Tapu Kadastro, the two of them worked separately, causing major conflicts. This is the first time we've destroyed this. Now, your forest cadastrom and the Tapu Kadastro General Directorate work together. In fact, I told them it would be the deed to the forest, and it would have to be a deed to avoid conflict. For this reason, so far -- let me put it this way -- 16 million, 250,000 hectares -- I handed over the deed to about 70 percent of them to the Forest General Directorate a month ago.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0388par0204	We didn't see an opening!
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0379par0205	I also said that about 30 percent of the remaining -22,000 or so hectares -- I want the deed of all the forests by December 31, 2014 until 16.59. That's it, that's the work. That's how we solved 2/B. If 2/B hasn't been solved in 30 years, the matter hasn't been looked at technically.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0388par0206	You couldn't figure out Sultan Beyli. The sultans expect the deed from you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0379par0207	Cadastro, rights holders, users, cadastro operations... what are you going to sell without registering the treasure of the 2/B fields? So we made them, thank God.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0389par0208	Mr. Secretary, turn around.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0379par0209	Sir, they told me about the forest peasant. Look at the jungle peasant, we, in 2011...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0390par0210	Look, you didn't solve the Sultan gentlemen's deed.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0379par0211	I've listened to you. Look, I've listened to you. There's got to be some kind of courtesy here.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0391par0212	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0379par0213	Mr Muharrem Ence, if you have your group, I've listened to you. Can't you guys stand me?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0392par0214	Would you please turn around and tell us...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0393par0215	Sir...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0394par0216	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0395par0217	I listened to you without any answer. Please, enough...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0394par0218	Mr. Tanal, please, we've made enough noise, over.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0395par0219	Sir, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0396par0220	Sir, why isn't the Minister looking at us?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0397par0221	Mr. President, what does it mean to have MPs?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0398par0222	He must have said it wrong. Okay, I'll warn him, I'll warn him.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0223	See, in 2003, the forest peasant received $335 million in support, while we raised that support to $1 billion 270 million this year. How many times? Four times. As for fighting forest fires... look, all Mediterranean countries appreciate Turkey's great success in fighting forest fires. Please, if you look at the book, we are the most successful country in fighting forest fires. Look, we're responding very quickly, even though the number of fires is increasing. In the past, maybe 45 minutes, but we've narrowed it down to 18 minutes, and the target is to bring it down to 15 minutes. Really, we've created a technology so large that I've been able to track the coordinates in the air at that moment from any vehicle -- whether it's an arrhysus, a fireplane, or a helicopter -- from the fire station, at that moment's speed, how many minutes later you're going to the fire site from my room. We even wanted this technology in neighbouring countries, Mediterranean countries, and we promised to give it to them, and we even built it in some countries.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0400par0225	Why didn't you send those helicopters to Urban Prison to put out the fire?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0401par0226	Mr. Tanal, please...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0227	Look, I'll tell you this: over the last ten years in Portugal, a million 337, 293 hectares have been burned, about 1 million hectares have been burned in Spain, 177,000 hectares have been burned in France, but we have lost 85,224 hectares in Turkey -- the lowest area of the Mediterranean countries in the last decade. This is a clear sign that we are indeed the most successful country in the Mediterranean countries. Besides, we have 49 aircraft. Of course, I don't mean the numbers of our land vehicles. We're interfering with forest fires with 19,000 of our employees, engineers, workers, and, in fact, our people are holding a front, they're shielding their breasts so they don't give it to them. Not in any country.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0402par0229	Mr. Secretary, there are seasonal workers among them. Do you intend to give them a staff?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0230	In that regard, I pray for God's mercy from here, especially to our forest rangers, who are martyrs in forest fires. Other than that, we're making Turkey a leading country in forestry and fighting fire. For this purpose, we have established the International Fire Education Centre, which was opened by our Prime Minister in Antalya, and hopefully, with this centre, we will train all the members of Turkey, as well as those from abroad. We're interfering with fires in other countries. You know, from Syria, we've interfered with Russia, Israel, Georgia, Macedonia, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Greece in the past. Really, our forestmen have achieved great success. In fact, I'd like to say with pride, sir, that our forestry activities have found so much reverberation throughout the world that in 2011 the World Forestry Congress and its forum were held in New York, so far, once, every three years, nine times, since 27 years in New York, in the heart of the United Nations. After that, we want to do the 10th of this in Turkey. When we say, really, all the countries applauded, and in the coming April, the World Forestry Forum and its summit will be held in Turkey. It's a really big success. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] We're fighting desertification, of course, for the rest of life, we've produced 302,000 winged animals, and we've left them in nature, and we're continuing to feed the endangered birds, the winged ones, and the winter months. Especially the wildlife... the cats, the dogs, our best friends, we do what we have to do to them. We increased the protected areas, and the national parks rose from 33 to 40, and the natural parks rose from 17 to 182. We've written the legend of Çanakkale, about that, of course, the Teene Action Plan continues, the Gediz Action Plan continues.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0403par0235	We thought you were writing a story.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0236	Now, here's what I want to emphasize: now, my friends said... look, here's where we start our openings in the DSI, really, my organization, the forest service, it's epic, and we don't even open the openings one by one anymore. For example, in 2010, on 10/10/2010 of 110 facilities...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0404par0237	Minister, the head of the Sakarya District...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0238	...China, we opened from the Adnan Menderes Dam, 110 facilities. Last year, on 11/11/2011, 111 major facilities, which are not small facilities, I'm telling you the total number, 11/11/2011 hours eleven past eleven past last year...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0404par0239	Madam Secretary, give me an answer.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0240	111 facilities, 8 billion 365 million dollars, 8.5 quadrillion dollars in old money! [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] But what is equal to two days is in waste. Because of the motto, we're looking at 112 giant facilities on 12/12/2012 this year, the total cost is $16 billion...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0404par0244	Minister, Sakarya... that's what I'm asking.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0405par0245	Mr. Ozcan, that's enough! We get it, but he didn't do anything while you were talking.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0246	We've opened this up in bulk. Sir, he says that these are small facilities. For God's sake, if you look at these, in the bookstore, we put a lot of them together. In many cities, we counted all the guards of the flood in Giresun. We'll present them to you, and they'll probably consider them. So if you look at these, if you count them one by one, 450, but we counted this 112. It's not over, we still have 300 small facilities to open. As we call them small, they will be opened at the location of my lawmakers and myself, less than 10 million TL. So we're opening 112 plus 300, 412 facilities. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] Is that even a thing? Has anything like this ever happened to you? In fact, there have been some foreigners who have known Turkey's economy for many years, who said on the way out: "I am at this age, but I have never seen anything like it. You should be proud of it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0406par0249	How many people work at these facilities, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0250	Look, sir, this 112 facility has the highest dams in Turkey. Do you know how many dams there are? 26 dams, 26 HES, 9 cities' drinking-water facilities, 30 large irrigation facilities, two pond watering, Antalya International Fire Education Centers, meteorology facilities, etc. So we've always opened them, we've been racing with time, and all we think about is serving our nation with enthusiasm and excitement, giving the nation what we've taken from the nation as a service, that's the difference. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] Now, look, the esteemed MPs, they just mentioned the DSI, they're friends. In 10 years, we've opened 1,215 large facilities in DSI, 1,215 and 232 large dams and HES, not the pond -- 26 ponds, not the small ponds, not counting the fire ponds -- 216 large irrigation facilities, 58 drinking water supply facilities, 656 flood conservation facilities and so on. We built Turkey's largest dams: Ermenek 218 meters, now Deeper has crossed it, 259 meters; we will cross it, and even finish the Yusefeli Recep Tayyip Erdogan dam, which entered the world's top 3 · Global Voices [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Now, look, on Sunday I invite everyone to the plains of Iconium. December 16th, 13 o'clock. The opening of the Cabbage Dam and the Blue Tunnel, which had not been built since the Ottomans, and were longed for since the Ottomans, and of course, many facilities will be opened, as well as the Damlapınar Damage and watering of the moors. Please come and have some experience, and I invite you to join me. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, my dear brothers, my time is limited, I'm going too fast. WITH THE HEES, of every four light bulbs that are burning today light up the country with the hydroelectric energy we bring in.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0407par0257	How many light bulbs before you?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0408par0258	You destroyed the streams, the streams. You dried up the creeks.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0259	We've had 26 billion kilowatts of production before, and we've now raised it to 69 billion kilowatts. And with that, we support our Minister, Zafer Cavalan, to make the 10 billion-dollar deficit less per year; that's it, that's it, that's it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0407par0260	Mr. Secretary, we're giving you a bad omen, an evil charm.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0261	Watering activity: Look, irrigation activity, of course, GAP, KOP... our time is very limited. We'll finish the GAP, we'll finish the KOP. It's just, look at it, it's...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0409par0262	With what? What percentage?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0263	Look, right now, in the FAP, watering projects today, especially today -- our Minister of Development explained -- the watering funds have increased by seven times, look, seven times as many.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0409par0264	How many percent are currently in the GAP?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0265	Look, what projects? The plains, the plains of Shanliurfa, the plains of Harran, the plains of Upper Harran, the watering of Bozova Pompaj.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0409par0266	You can't finish in 70 years.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0267	And this one here, look, do you know the channels from Şanlıurfa, which are headed specifically towards Mardin? At this moment, 200 cubic meters per second water will flow. This is what we do when we do it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0410par0268	The Urbans curse you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0269	Look, why don't you take a look at what we've done to the plain of Suruç, and what we've done to Yaylak, and to Bozova? We're bringing in the water, we'll keep bringing in the water. And the DAP, and the DAKAP, and the DOCAP, we shall finish them. In addition, my valued representatives, we also rolled up the sleeves to water 1,000 ponds in 1,000 days, the calendar began, starting at 8:59 p.m. on January 1, 2012. When we're working, we're racing with time, look, when we're laying groundwork, we're giving the opening date. We'll take water to Cyprus, if God wills, all work continues. Even Cyprus, even its young homeland, will be tied to Turkey.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0411par0272	Who got his contract, Mr. Secretary? Who did you give his contract to, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0412par0273	Did you give him the contract, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0274	The drinking water -- there's no more process -- so if we don't do these studies, right now, five out of seven people are using the drinking water that we bring in. (CARP PARTY RINGING, CHEERING) Oh, you're...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0413par0275	Where?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0276	Where? We also brought water for Izmir.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0413par0277	Tell me, where is it?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0278	...Mersin, Kars, and Mardin; ask the Mardinns.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0414par0279	Mr. Secretary, did you leave water in the country?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0280	We brought him to glory, and to Kars. Wherever you want him. We're not leaving any room without water.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0415par0281	You dried the water, you dried it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0282	When you say Su, we come to mind, thank God. Of course, I don't have time to explain the activities of meteorology.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0416par0283	Madam Secretary, the friend claims it.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0284	I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0417par0286	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0399par0287	I wish him well. Thank you very much, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0418par0289	Didn't we used to drink water?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0417par0290	That's not how it works. In the name of God.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0419par0291	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0418par0292	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary says that 5 of every 7 people drink the water we bring. Didn't we drink before 2002?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0420par0293	Yalova wasn't there either.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0418par0294	We weren't drinking? Is that even possible?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0421par0295	Yeah, he can say that.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0418par0296	What were we drinking, not drinking water?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0422par0297	You were drinking diesel.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0418par0298	Were we drinking diesel?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0423par0299	Yes, Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0418par0300	Well, there was no water, but what were we drinking?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0424par0301	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0425par0302	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0426par0303	Mr. Tanal, what happened to you?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0427par0304	Muharrem was drinking super gas.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0428par0305	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0426par0306	Wait a minute... first, Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0429par0307	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0430par0308	We don't do swimming pools, we build dams, dams.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0429par0310	If you did it, you'd make an election dam.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0431par0311	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has expressed in his speech that animals and bees in the forest have not been taken into the forest by the forestkeepers. As a man who worked for twenty-five years in this organization, he said, "The forest forest forest has come in our day." If you'll excuse me, I'd like to correct it according to 69.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0432par0315	Reverends, quiet down a bit. Now, in normal circumstances, what you're saying is on the record, but we're starting out, and we're going down a road.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0433par0317	We haven't heard, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0432par0318	See, these conversations are making me lose all my insurance. Now, I'll take a break, everyone's stays out in the open, so all demands remain out in the open.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0434par0320	Oh, Mr. President, don't take a break.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0432par0321	Now, I'm just saying a kind word. In normal circumstances, such things as this -- let's just say for our friends -- do not pick on things, and when it comes to corrections of information, they are recorded. I'm not just saying it for you, Mr. Yilmaz. So inside this structure, under this roof, a path like this has been opened, gone, gone, gone, but now I'm going to tell you...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0435par0323	Well, now that we've started.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0432par0324	Yeah, that's right, since we're on it, I'll give it to you. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0436par0326	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0432par0327	Now, Mr. Ozcan, I'll listen to you in a moment. Please come in.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0437par0331	Mr. President, thank you. Now, I felt the need to correct it from this angle. Look, I've worked in this agency for 25 years, and I understand the Minister's excitement, but I keep warning the Minister that if you don't appoint a high-level forest bureaucrat, they'll give you false information. Now, he says, Mr. Secretary -- he made that statement in Muğla, and I have the transcripts -- that the rangers didn't put the bee in the woods before me. Oh, come on, Mr. Secretary, there are bureaucrats behind you, ask. Look, there are three or four forest rangers here who do forest headquarters, or let's ask, we've been planning to graze for 20 to 20 years, 20 to five years, so that animals don't have to graze in the forest, so they don't have to hurt the forest. There are bees' hives in the woods all the time, Mr. Secretary, so don't get false information, don't give false information, you didn't sting them. What do we just take precautions on? Fire zones? In particular, Mudla is a first-degree fire-sensitive place. They take fire-related precautions, and beekeepers stay in the woods all the time. You ask anyone, you ask any forest ranger, you ask any Mongol, they all know. So it didn't start with you. Look, honey forests. When you say the jungles, Mr. Secretary, there are pictures of a hundred-year-old trees like they're building a forest again. What is a honey forest? For 50 years, the Turkish forestman has planted it for sixty years to form these honey forests. I mean, there's no point in underestimating the woodsmen or saying the woodsmen didn't do anything. I'm trying to right this wrong.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0438par0336	It's a shame to Osman Pepe, my hometown.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0437par0337	For 50 years, for 60 years, the Turkish forest ranger has planted acacia in their territory and protected these fields for bees to make honey. I mean, if you're building a honey forest, if you're keeping it up, it's a good thing, God bless you, but it didn't start with you, Mr. Secretary. But what's wrong with the Minister? I keep telling you, if you can't appoint any of the senior officers from the forest engineer, they're telling you that the minister started with you. The minister comes here excitedly. This forest of honey and acacia trees, the planting and woody plants for the honey forest, the planting, the protection, the control, the rehabilitation, all of which have been done by the Turkish forestman for 50, 60 years, for a hundred years. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I've made these contributions, too. But don't say it started with me, Mr. Secretary. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0439par0342	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Secretary, he said that the number of productions I gave in my speech was wrong and...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0440par0343	I didn't say the numbers were wrong.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0439par0344	By giving different and misleading figures, he implied that we were misinformation to the General Assembly. I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0441par0345	I'll make you a promise, but I'd like to explain it for the record. Now, according to the internal law, this declaration is certainly not a legitimate request according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0442par0347	Don't give it to me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0443par0348	Then don't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0441par0349	No, I'll give, I'll give, I'll give to everyone today, but this...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0442par0350	But it was the road, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0441par0351	It's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's always been the way. Now, I mean, look, I don't mind, I'll sit until morning, but this TV gives us this, and people are probably watching.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0442par0353	Mr. President, why is there a Civil Code?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0441par0354	I mean, I said, he said, "I said," not with a system in the form of a system. I'll give it to you, I'll give it to everyone. Now, Mr. Tanal, there's no such thing as you. I'm not going to give it to you. I mean, I'm gonna fix it, I'm gonna fix it, it's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0444par0358	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like the Minister to review the numbers he just gave us. Our very valuable bureaucrats behind it seem to have given the Minister false information.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0445par0359	It's in the book.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0444par0360	I, Minister, would like to offer you something: I mean, even if you make the Prime Minister an offer, we can split this Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs in two. I think I'd appreciate it, Mr. Secretary, if you'd continue with the waterworks, at least someone who understands a little bit about forest work could come in and perform this ministry.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0445par0361	You don't decide, people decide, you just sit there.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0444par0362	Frankly, I'm not sure you really know how to go into a forest, how a forest peasant can produce in the forest. I'm not sure you know how much trouble he's going through, that's one. Secondly, Minister, we insist, look, I said something very important tonight, I mentioned the head of the Sakarya Forest District. Previously, in Bolu, Aladağ was the Director of Forestry Management. Then you took him to Ankara, and then you gave him to Bolu as Assistant Director of the Forest. Then you promoted him, and gave him to Sakaryah as district manager.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0445par0364	I'll give you an answer.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0444par0365	Look, I've given you some documents, you've read them. Mr. District Manager admits that he committed irregularities when he received a certificate of poverty. Well, can you imagine such a thing, lawmakers, that there is a knowledge of poverty, that the person who received the knowledge of poverty is written as director of the forest business. First of all, it's a shame. But you're taking a man like that, Mr. Secretary, and I'm so sorry, you're promoting him, you're making him regional manager. It's a good thing you've appointed the general manager, by the way, to save this country from being a general manager. I specifically beg of you, those allegations are very serious. Mr. Secretary, please, this is important. He's still sitting in the seat of one of Turkey's key regional directors.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0446par0367	Mr. President, why don't you intervene, would a person who isn't here be accused of such reckless behavior?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0444par0368	Please, Mr. Secretary, you didn't even answer that, please. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit07spe0447par0371	I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0447par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 40th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2011 Central Management Computation Bill. [[Continue]] 1) Economy Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Undersecretary of Foreign Trade: Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Export Development Center 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks 2013 Central Management Budget 2) The Forest and Water Affairs Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The Ministry of Environment and Forests Final Account for Central Management 2011 O) ORMAN GOVERNMENT [[Continue]] 1) The Forest General Directorate's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Forest General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology: Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2013 Commission? Here. Government? Here. Now, the final word for the individuals is Mr. Faik Tunay. Here you go, Mr. Tunay.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0448par0038	Mr. President, distinguished members, I salute you all. Before I begin my words, I wish our Minister well once again. On this occasion, I pray to God for immediate healing for all those who have health problems. Now, at this time of night, in a five-minute period of time, it's unlikely to talk the economy through. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk about RD and innovation, which is actually the mother lode of the economy, which is the most important thing in our two decades and thirty years of planning. Although this is the subject of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, the progress, the development of an innovative economy is not possible. If we're talking exports, imports, economics, we need to talk about RD. Now, our Minister has just announced that our exports have exceeded 150 billion dollars, although our imports are over $250 billion. Now, when imports and exports are spoken, one of the things that we've always come across is that because Turkey is an energy-poor country, because we don't have oil, because we don't have natural gas, we have to import them from the outside. Is that true? Right, yes, Turkey doesn't have oil, natural gas, and we take oil, natural gas, to produce products that we export, and we import them, but this painting we know is always the next painting. We need to offer some solution proposals rather than this painting. Otherwise, if we don't offer solution proposals, these scissors are going to open up, so exports are 150 billion dollars, imports are 250 billion dollars. Maybe two years from now, three years from now, he'll be in imports, head off, and it'll be completely impossible for us to cover that difference. What's the solution to this? The solution to this is RD and innovation. Look, one of the criteria for development in the world today is that one of its criteria is what the countries allocate to R&D within their GDP. The level of growth of 2% is not considered to be developed countries, but countries two per cent and above are considered developed countries. According to last year's report, the average is 2.3 per cent. So, what's our share of Turkey, our Turkish country, in illegal domestic revenues, for RD? 8.4. Yes, within ten years, he came from a thousand to a thousand to a thousand to an 8.4. Now, opposition doesn't mean opposition to everything, it's the right thing to say, but it's the right thing to say what's missing, the wrong thing to say, even though it's a success coming from a thousand to an eighth of a thousand, our goal is to get to the level of developed countries. Today, countries are at 2 percent, at 3 percent, and we are still 8.4 percent. If we don't make our economy innovative, if we don't focus on RD and innovation, if we don't make it a state policy, Turkey's job is very difficult. Look, I said 8.4 per thousand, 45 per cent of this thousand by higher education institutions, 43 per cent by commercial sector, only 12 per cent by public sector, so our ratio is very low and the proportion of the public population is very low. I mean, no matter what you look at, there's a problem with our RD and innovation policy today. This needs to be made public policy as soon as possible. I stressed at the beginning of my speech, that when you look at it as an economy, it seems to be directly related to the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, but we need to focus on RD and innovation for our further goals in 2023, 2053. Let's look at the money the countries have spent: China has now earmarked $136 billion for R&D, the United States of America, $130 billion, Russia $7.2 billion, India $6.4 billion, Turkey only $1.9 billion. So we're dividing 8.4 per thousand, and the money we're spending is far lower than any other country. These are developed countries, and when you look at countries, Turkey is far behind. With these goals, with these numbers, with the shares of this illegal domestic product that have been assigned to RD, it's not possible for us to meet our 2023 targets, the $500 billion export target, Mr. Secretary. These are not the numbers that we're giving, but the numbers of TÜİK. Whoever wants them, they can go on their cell phones and look at them on the Internet even now. Now, the most important thing is that Turkey now needs to produce machines that produce products. Look, our factories are opening, we've got millions of dollars in factories, we're going, we're visiting in our constituencies, we're visiting elsewhere. You're looking at millions of dollars invested in factories, machines in them, made in Germany, made in Italy, made in America, made in China. You can't see a Turkish machine. So we're going to have to build these machines now, while we're increasing our exports, while we're exporting high-end products. If we don't produce these machines, if we buy them from America, Germany, Italy, China, there's no way we can develop exports and improve exports. Now, then, what are their solutions after we've identified them? The solution proposals are simple. Now, we have an RD Act, Mr. Minister, you know, which may not directly concern your ministry, but since we're talking about import-export, we need to talk about it. Now, he has to form a team of 50. Now, the obligation to form this team is to fully and entirely benefit major businesses. So you can't do SMEs under 50. You say, "You can't do RR-Ge activities." You say, "You can't do it once." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This needs to be fixed once. There are dozens of people who have heard me speaking today, e-mailing and texting, saying: "We are the COBI. We're in RD, but we can't split our corporate resources to request RD. In this regard, bureaucratic obstacles must be removed immediately, otherwise we will not be able to catch our goals. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0449par0052	Thank you, Mr. Tunay. Congressmans, the talks on the 8th round are complete. Congressmans, we're now going to question-answer. Mr. Köse... no Mr. Köse? Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0450par0057	Thank you, Mr. President. My questions are for the Minister of the Forest. Last year, the 2/B Act came out, but the citizen was unable to obtain 2/B land because of the fact that the price still remains to be determined. However, the property problem of the forest of pistachio pines in the Aegean region has not been resolved in the Law 2/B. Do you or do you not have a study to solve the property problem of the peanut pine forest? Mudla produces about 80 percent of the world's pine honey. Unplanned cuts have a negative effect on our beekeepers. Do you or do you not have a master plan for this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0451par0061	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0452par0062	Mr. President, thank you. The question is for our Minister of the Forest. There's a document sent by the Mukhtars, I'll send it to him; it's about electricity, water meter. And second of all, we're gonna give you water if you have one, or we're gonna shut down the wells. Now, February 2013 is the last day. What will happen to these farmers who are farming and who are troubled by their inheritance because of their inheritance? We'd be happy to see him come up with a clear solution. I thank you. A second question to our Minister of Economics, not to be offended: either a story in the economy... or a story in the economy. It's either in this country, or it's too expensive for diesel...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0453par0068	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0454par0069	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary just said: "We don't have a single place where we don't have any drinking water. I'm giving you an address right now. There's no drinking water here. I gave you a question proposal, but you passed it to the city, and the municipality says we can't give water here. One. Two: Şanlıurfa Province, Hilvan Province; there is still no drinking water, and at the same time, their villages drink well water. When are you going to do all this? Another question: Is there a project abroad that you've been modeling for wastewater and drinking water treatment plants? Do you develop projects in our country with reference projects? Are you co-ordinated with municipalities on these studies and projects? Do you support municipalities in water projects? In the coming years, do you expect a water crisis within the framework of pollution and changing ecological balances? One more question...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0455par0075	Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0456par0076	Thank you. Mr. President, I'm asking the Minister of Forestry and Waterworks: Mr. Minister, how far has the Kütahya Altıntaş County Başkarş Dam Watering Project been under way? Second: Kütahya Province, Aslanapa district, Kurayler Dam ÇED report stipulates that no construction can be started without moving the village, but none of our people who live in that village today have been moved, and dynamite is being detonated 50 meters away, and people can't sleep. Are you going to help me with this? Third: Do you have ministry studies on the restoration of the dried Lake Simav, and the restoration of lake land, and what did you do about it? Mr. Minister of Economy, I ask you, what is the loss of our country's foreign trade over the past two years because of the dissolution of Syrian-Turkey relations? Do you intend to compensate Mr. Davutoglu for this loss? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0457par0082	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0458par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs: We have a lovely town on the Sakaryan border in Cartepe district of Kopeli. Minister, I don't know if you've had the opportunity to see it. We have a town called Mashukiya. I can show you pictures, green. At the same time, this is a structure in the water basin of Lake Sapanca. Here, in the past few days, with the governor's approval, I believe it has been decided to open the quarry under the direction of a high-ranking politician. You know, because this area is a water basin and it's a forest area, it's your ministry's job to stop it, or have you ever been asked for an opinion? That's my first question.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0457par0086	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0459par0087	Mr. Secretary, I'll ask the Mashuki. In the Kartepe district of Kopeleli, every shade of green is dominated, the soil is covered with chestnut trees, it feeds Sapanca Lake, its streams, its inhabitants of Istanbul, Sakarya and Schepeli have met with nature, and its winter tourism is held in Mashukiya, a area of a forest area of 160 acres. As Minister of Forestry and Waterworks, what do you do to prevent the forest from being slaughtered and the drinking water supply from being contaminated by Sakarya and Kosheli? Will you let this quarry open? What measures do you take against the turning of the minefields, which have been licensed for the use of some of the materials in the Mining Law, as an excuse to mine precious minerals? Again, the area that was previously used as a quarry in the district of Hereke, the province of Alexandria...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0460par0091	Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0461par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs: Water prices increased by 230 per cent between 2002 and 12 per cent. The electricity costs are 9.5 cents in the EU and the United States, and we're 19.5 cents in the US. After the bank, agriculture loans and TEDASH, farmers have been reduced to the execution of irrigation troops. There is nothing different about the city and Karacabey. In Karacabey plain villages, 47 of our citizens are wanted by the gendarmes, 300 of our citizens have been executed. Mr. Secretary, how do you feel about reducing the irrigation fees, deleting the debt interest, delaying debts to the irrigation troops? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0462par0096	Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0463par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs was that Project Knuk Dam, which was very important to Kastamon, was now in the tender phase. What's his position, what's his status? Another question: Is there any study of the Oyrak Dam, which is also of great importance to the region, on the road to Zamkani? Again, there is a serious lack of personnel in the operations of the Kastamono Forest Regional Directorate, which contributes seriously to your ministry. You made a promise about it. Do you have any work to do with this?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0464par0101	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0465par0102	Thank you. And I'm telling the Minister of Economy to get better first. Minister, we had something in Adana. You know, Adana's been through a lot these last few years. You made a promise there. I don't know why Mr. Adana MP reacted to us like that, bringing in $2 billion investors... was it 1? $1 billion, we'll settle for that. Do you stand by that?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0466par0105	To the bottom.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0465par0106	We're waiting, and we'd like to go with you to Adana, arm in arm. I'm asking the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs if you're going to recruit temporary workers. Are you thinking of hiring a forest engineer in 2013? And these forest villages are really troubled. Do you think there's a significant increase in units prices in cutting, dragging, and shipping? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0467par0109	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0468par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. My questions are for our Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. You performed the groundbreaking ceremony of the Hamzabey Dam, which provided drinking water for Elazigıg, and you said that the water would be delivered to Elazığ in 2015. Do you know where this project is right now, Mr. Secretary? There was only construction work there this year, so will this project be in time for 2015? You did the dam construction contract, but did you do the treatment contract with the Jesus line? That's what I want to know. Again, this year you said we'll plant 10 million saplings for Elazığ. Did you sew it up, where did you sew it up? You were going to build a city forest in 2009, did you? And my last question is, you were going to set up three automated meteorological measuring stations for Elazig, and what's the outcome of that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0467par0112	Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0469par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. Mr. Secretary, I've made several motions that the funds for the Filyos River Grand Canal Correction Project are not enough, but that the reform of the Filyos River can only take place in fifty-six years. Despite these motions, however, you did not put sufficient funds into the budget, and unfortunately on April 6th, the Teacuma Bridge was destroyed by the carving of the feet of rivers and flood waters and other mistakes: 15 citizens lost their lives, and 5 have not yet been reached. I honor those who have lost their lives, and I ask you, Mr. Secretary -- you have just expressed your pride in what you've done and your accomplishments -- and you, our other Minister -- and how do you feel about our citizens who have lost their lives in the process of the Teacuma Bridge and other bridges?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0467par0115	Well, now, three questions belong to Mr. Minister of Economics. The rest of the 12 questions are for the Minister of the Forest.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0470par0116	Mr. President, let me ask you a question.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0467par0117	It's full.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0471par0118	Let power ask you a question, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0467par0119	Sir?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0472par0120	I have a question, may I ask?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0473par0121	One thing at a time, it's not about the money.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0467par0122	You can't ask, we took turns. Now, shall we divide it like this?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0474par0124	Ten minutes total, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0467par0125	Ten minutes total. Five, five divided.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0474par0126	No, no, I don't talk very much, and since there are so many questions for the Minister...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0467par0127	Okay, fine. Mr. CaIan answers first.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0474par0129	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, thank you for the questions asked. The speech of Faik Tunay Bey was really important. So we've already expressed the high added value, high technology, to achieve the 2023 strategy. As of now, Turkey raised its GDP rate to 8.6 per thousand last year, but in our 2023 strategy, R-R-Ge is within our plan and program, so hopefully in 2023, we'll be a 60-billion-dollar RD spending country. In addition, Mr. Scholar Light asked about Syrian exports. In 2010, we had $1.8 billion to Syria, $1.6 billion exports in 2011, and as of 2012, our exports are about $472 million. We've lost about a billion dollars. I've just spoken to the new markets about all of our losses in exports -- we've closed down -- and our three-year closure has cost us $29 billion. One last thing...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0475par0133	Will we receive $1 billion from Davutoglu?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0474par0134	As for the question of Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz, I also expressed it in Adana. Look, let's rephrase a misunderstanding there: it's the same investor's agenda right now. Someone wants to invest $1 billion in the petrochemistry sector, and since it's strategic investment, make no difference to Adana, Mersin, Istanbul, Ankara, as long as you find land in Adana, which will bring this investor to Adana. Now I say again: Find the proper land in Adana to the investor, and I will bring that investor to you. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0475par0136	Mr. Secretary, you'll find him.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0476par0137	Mr. Minister of the Forest, please.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0477par0138	I'd like to answer Mr. Light's questions: Watering the Barrier Dam has been tendered. Hopefully, soon, I'll come along and we'll finish this thing quickly together. You've already told me about the village about the Quraysh Dam. We basically paid for them. Most of them stay in Kütahya, and I know it. You know, I'm an honorary citizen of Kütahya, and of Simav. So I'll take care of it myself again. Actually, it's a question of money... we paid the full publicization fee. Our friends will work on Lake Simav.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0478par0140	But there's no room, Mr. Secretary, no place to go.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0477par0141	Mr. Light, I will examine it myself. Mr. Kaplan and Mr. Akar, sir, so far we've been in Mashukiye... and I know it's a nice place, and some of it's in the forest. We didn't allow it until now, but for the State Railways, you know, it needs a quarry, a stone. So we're going to take a look at this, and we're going to do a study on where we can get it from.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0479par0143	Madam Secretary, Sakarya is not allowed in the same place.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0477par0144	Other than that, work has begun for Broken Dam, the project is under way, now 90 percent complete. When the project is finished, we will make a special tender, which I express especially to Mr. Chanar. Sir, I know there's a need for forest in Kastamon, we've spoken before. Hopefully, when we get new forest engineers, we'll give them the necessary support -- an important area of the casino. Mr. Yilmaz, there are a few things about you. For one thing, we've taken forest engineers, and 2012 is the most time we've ever had in our most recent years. We'll get it in 2013, I hope. Other than that, you specifically stated in your speech that, you know, the Department of Nature Protection and National Parks has staged a fraud in payments. I mean, it's been determined that our friends transferred money to their account by altering the number, by copying it, but it's entirely the Director General and the Undersecretary who detected it. They immediately identified it, and I sent it to the inspector, and he went to the DA's office, and this person is in jail.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0480par0147	Seven years, Mr. Secretary, where's 10 trillion, 10 trillion?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0477par0148	So let me make it very specific. The second thing you're asking is that the overtime in the fire has been moved only to the staff at the headquarters, the general manager's office, because they have nothing to do with the fire, but they continue to pay those who actually go into the country to put out fires. Besides, you know, there's been a three-fold increase in salaries, rights of equity, and recovery, and everybody knows that. Other than that, the Hamzabey Dam is our promise, Congressman, that it will be over in time, and now the work is under way. In parallel with this, of course, there will be a Jesus line and a drinking water treatment facility. Automated weather station is also being set up. We will determine their number for you in writing where it was established. Sir, of course, Mr. Kokturk, of course we regret the fall of the Teacuma Bridge. So I went there, and we looked into it, and we really expressed our condolences. It's a big accident, we're sorry, that's the feeling. What else can I say? God rest his soul, I mean, we've already offered our condolences to your relatives. I want to stress it specifically. The Hilvan Drinking Water Jesus Line Project was completed by the DSI, and the construction tender was sent to them by private administration. According to our information, the private administration also made the construction contract. In particular, we give all municipalities all kinds of advanced technologies on wastewater treatment facilities, drinking water treatment facilities. Look, I want to make this very clear: really, in this regard, in the dehydration of drinking water, in the wastewater treatment plant, Turkey has become a truly exemplary country in the world, and I want to stress that in particular. We support any city that wants to, even if there's a demand, we build wastewater treatment facilities with a DSI ability in major cities. He already projects, does, delivers drinking water treatment facilities to his municipality according to Law No. 1053. Other than that, sir, Mr. Tanju Bey, our Bolu MP, said that in his speech, Mr. Tanju Özcan, what he said about Sakarya Regional Manager Hasan Türkyılmaz, in fact, I want to summarize this: Sir, Hasan Türkyilmaz had three-story houses burned down with his family in the village of Düzce-Karalı in 2005. On that occasion, the certificate of need for disaster was arranged. This is confirmed by the head of the district, but I would like to point out that our district manager has never used it or taken advantage of it in any way, and in the history of the incident, he is the assistant director of the Aladağ Forestry Management. I mean, he's never done anything like that, except it's a standard and it's a need to be granted discounts for 20 percent of every fire. Even though he had the right to be a woodsman, our regional manager didn't use it, I'd like to stress that in particular. Other than that, we have a few more minutes, so I'll answer them right away.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0481par0158	Mr. Secretary, can you explain the Simav lake site?
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0477par0159	Regarding the meter, sir, Ali Halaman... the application of the owners of the licensed wells must be made by law -- this Law -- until February 25, 2013; the clause added to Law 167 is in command. Our goal is basically, you know, there's a huge attraction in underground waters right now. After all, the water levels, I'll give you an example from Iconium, were once drawn from maybe 20, 30, 40 meters, and are now down to 100, 150, 200 meters. Of course, you can appreciate that the more underground water is being fed here in engineering, the more water you have to draw, and ultimately the work is being carried out by law. We're going to come up with some solutions to solve the problem of farmers who have a problem with the deed, which, in fact, many of our friends, Karaman and our Konya MPs, have expressed. After the budget talks on this, I'm going to round up the sides, especially whatever it takes to make it easier for the citizens. In fact, I'd like to stress in particular that we're very pleased if you'd be so kind as to pass along some of your advice. Kastamonu was given 39 forest engineers this year, and now all the chiefs are filled, and even the chief of operations at Kastamonu, Hanön. Our MP -- he was saying, he too -- was established, you know. Other than that, with the municipalities...
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0482par0164	I don't think he's gonna make it. Eight seconds.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0477par0165	Let's do this: there are some who are left, and there are some who are mentioned in the talks, and I'll answer them in writing.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0482par0166	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0477par0167	Thank you very much, everyone. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-14sit08spe0482par0169	Now I'm going to make you read separately and vote on the parting of the budgets in the 8th round, respectively. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Economics will take part in the central management budget in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Economy Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 515,491.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 12,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 856.087,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 1,371.590.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Economics was adopted in 2013 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the Economic Ministry's final account of central management in 2011 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 376,223,810.00 Budget Expenses 370.814.728.58 Canceled Fund 5,409,081,42 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Economics was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. Undersecretary of Foreign Trade, I would like to submit to your votes to the chapters of the central management account in 2011: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 3) Foreign Trade Undersecretary Central Management Final Account for 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 454.634.332.00 Budget Expenses 451,276,483,31 Canceled Grant 3.357,848,69 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Foreign Trade Undersecretary was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the export development center of the central management account in 2011 will be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 4) Export Development Study Centre 2011 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 12.978.378.00 Budget Expenses 9.704.193,72 Canceled Fund 3,274,184,28 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm reading the general sums of the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 16.135,000.00 Net Collection 8.117.189.09 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Export Development Centre was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2011. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs has voted to take part in the central management budget in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 33) ORMAN AND WATER WORKING 1) Forest and Water Affairs Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 10.092.691,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 827,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,800,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 257,815,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Environmental Protection Services 139,006,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 10.492.139,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs adopted parts of the central management budget in 2013 The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks in 2011, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Forest and Water Affairs Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 482.876.93.00 Budget Expenses 356.390.805.50 Compensation Expenses 2,147,436,44 Canceled Fund 128,633,533,94 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs was adopted as part of the central management account in 2011. The Ministry of Environment and Forestry reads the final account of central management in 2011: 3) The Ministry of Environment and Forestry 2011 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 1,165,214,437.00 Budget Expenses 1,139,264,822,08 Emancipation Expenses 4.032.826.59 Canceled Fund 29.982.441.51 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Environment and Forestry was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Management budget of 2013 will be transferred to the section of the Forest General Directorate: those who don't accept... those who don't. 40.17) ORMAN GOVERNMENT 1) The Forest General Directorate's Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 7.182,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 288,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 1,981,404,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 1,988,874,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 320,853,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 1,386,366,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 280,650,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Savings 5,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 1,987,874,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Forest General Directorate was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. Director General of the Forest, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2011 will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Forest General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account I'm reading the general sums of the ruler (A): [[TL]] Total Payment 1,113,720,810,00 Budget Expenses 1,064.032.460.64 Cancelled Fund 49,688,349,36 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 1,000,087,000.00 Net Collection 1,033,117,046,94 Ret and Returns 18,394.826.03 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Forest General Directorate was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the State Department of Water Affairs will be transferred to the central management budget in 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.57) ACTIVITY OF SURVOLUTION 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 39,372.442 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 761.645 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 20,800,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 8,045,527,832 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Environmental Protection Services 60,281,417 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 706,073,371 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 546.293 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 8,873,363,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 99,187,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Funds and Aids 8,659,688,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 103,284,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Savings $11,204,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 8,873,363,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of State Water Affairs was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. I'd like to submit to your votes that the State Water Affairs General Directorate in 2011 will be transferred to the departments of the central management final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 7.031.178.159.09 Budget Expenses 6,852.142.747.00 Canceled Fund 175,921,788,92 The grant passed on to the following year is 105,078,672.52 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The State Water Affairs General Directorate was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of Meteorology shall take part in the central management budget of 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 33.75) METEOROLOGY GENIFER 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology: Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 190,160,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 56,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,600,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 200,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 193,016,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2013 was adopted by the General Directorate of Meteorology. I submit to your votes that the Departments of your final account in 2011 will be taken into custody by those who do not accept... those who do not. 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2011 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 156,526,135,73 Budget Expenses 137.738.569.26 Compensation Expenses 13.492,14 Canceled Fund 18,801,058,61 The grant passed on to the following year is 14.876,189,84 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the National Executive Account of 2011 will be transferred into the sections of the meteorological General Directorate: Those who don't... Sustained. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Water Institute be moved to parts of the central budget in 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.58) ENGLISH INSTITUTION 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 03 Public Order and Security Services 175,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 3.027,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 3.202,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 150,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Influences With Donations and Aids 3.052,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 3.202,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Water Institute adopted parts of the central management budget in 2013. Thus, the central management budgets of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, the General Directorate of Forestry, State Water Affairs and the General Directorate of Meteorology in 2013 and the final accounts of central management in 2011; the Turkish Water Institute's central management budget in 2013 and the Foreign Trade Undersecretary for Export Development, the Centre for Education and Environment and Forestry in 2011 were approved. I wish them well. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Saturday, December 15, 2012, to discuss the budgets and precise accounts of the institutions, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00. Good evening, good night.
