tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 30th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Zonguldak MP Özcan Uupınar, who wants to talk about investments in Zonguldak. Here you go, Mr. Nupınar.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0002par0015	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to investments in Zonguldak. I hereby salute your high council. We lost one mining worker in today's accident at TTK Black Sea Ereğli Armuttuk Company. Three of our workers were injured. We're deeply upset. I wish God's mercy to the mine worker who lost his life, and my condolences to his relatives. And I wish our wounded miners a speedy recovery. Our EC PARTY governments have done more in their service and investments in our province in many sectors in this ten-year period than the year our republic was founded. We are not the ones who shrink TTK in Zonguldak, who make three provinces out of the great Zonguldak, who don't renovate the railways, who don't even hit the roads, who can't even open the airport. Because of Zonguldak's climate and geography, the difficulty of finding suitable investment spaces, the negative consequences of the activity of mining activities, investments are both long and do not seem to last. And it also turns out to be a bad city view, as local governments fail to perform the services they need to do. The EC PARTI government is rapidly continuing its efforts to prepare the Zonguldak, like all Turkey, for the future, to strengthen its economy, to make investments and breakthroughs. These ten years of work will continue for another year, and my Zonguldish countrymen, who work abroad for a living, will return to their homeland one by one, take care of their village, their ancestor's land. To bring investors to Zonguldak, we quickly complete the roads of land, sea, air and railway. The double roads will end in a year's time, despite all geographical difficulties, towards Istanbul and Ankara. Mithatpaşa Tunnel, Kilimli coast road, city freeway access tunnels have been tendered, work will begin. The road to Filyos will be connected by tunnels. The airport, which had been opened but was not used, was shaven to open the mountain to foreign and domestic flights, thanks to the AK PARTI government. The port of Filyos, the largest port in the Black Sea, will be tendered in the coming days. Ankara-Zonguldak railway is quickly rehabilitated to make a fast train work. Due to Zonguldak's rich coal deposits, the state and private sector have co-operated to become an energy center, and our efforts to grow continue. He's about to be in position to employ hundreds of people. Our city is on its way to becoming a college city. Thanks to investments, the number of students has grown from 10,000 to 22,000 per day in ten years. He's got a half-bedroom with a thousand beds, and he's in the service. In our counties, homes are either completed or are about to be served. We've made serious investments in health. The 100-bed hospital is under way, the 100-bed project in Teacuma, and the construction of 400-bed hospitals in Ereglı. The Faculty of Medicine and Research Hospital at Bulent Ecevit University has reached a level above the country's level with investments and increased staff. At Zonguldak headquarters, the 400-bed hospital's funding is ready and locator work is under way. Our investments continue so that TTK will be able to compete with the world's miners. In order to increase production, 4,651 workers have been hired so far, and in a short period of time 2,492 workers are still working for the purchase of 2.492 workers. The port of Filyos Valley, which our Prime Minister considers a mad project by the Black Sea, is about to be tendered. The work continues on the wall of Filyos Tea. The Council of Ministers has declared an industrial zone, and investors will be assigned next year. WITH CEYDES and BELDES funds, our villages have become habitable, even the garbage of our villages are being gathered by the County Special Administration. As a result of investments in education, the number of kindergartens across the province reached from four to 14, the number of high schools with 37 has reached 68, and the number of primary schools has doubled. On this occasion, I would like to extend my deepest regards to all our charitable citizens who have helped our government with education. The teachers' homes of our boroughs and boroughs have all been modernized. In all the counties, we rid our young people of mud and dirt and exercise in modern synthetic and natural grass fields. We renovated many of our gyms, brought youth centers and homes of love to life. We built the mining museum of our mining history for a hundred and eighty-nine years. Thanks to Zonguldak's Tunnel of the Borned Dam in Zonguldak, we have eliminated Zonguldak's water problem, we have reformed many of the large and small streams, and we are rapidly continuing our reform work. One of the best services our government has done to our province is to have Kozlu and Kilimli, our largest cities as populations. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I thank the esteemed MPs of the High Assembly for their contribution to the district of these cities, and salute the great Parliament.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0003par0034	Thank you, Mr. Nupınar. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Manisa MP Sakine Öz (a member of parliament) who wants to talk about Manisa's problems. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0004par0039	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the issues of the people of Manisa and its districts. My compliments to the General Assembly. I have made a promise to pass on the current issues of Manisa, to repeat our demands, to pass on the solution proposal to power. Dear lawmakers, the Manisa farmer wants to sell the product he has worked so hard to raise. However, his request does not come due to faulty agricultural policies. He's living his life in debt. It stays in the olive branch because the collection cost is higher than the income. While our manisa farmer is trying to sell the plum, the pepper, and pay off his debt, the wrong purchase policies are destroying our farmers. See, the purchase prices are still unaccounted for by TARIST. While this is happening inside, the wrong path and method followed by foreign policy has dropped exports with the neighbors, and the zero problem policy has become almost zero exports. The government must increase support for the farmer under difficult circumstances and explain its support without further ruining the farmer before the harvest season passes. Dear lawmakers, the bridges over the Gediz and Alaşehir rivers, which provided access to Salihli villages in northern Salihli, are narrow and one-way, not meeting our needs. Salihli is also used as a road, cargo and passenger transport in the Akhisar location. These old bridges and roads must be expanded immediately. We've been tracking this for a long time. We're repeating our demands, again, we're applying to the Ministry of Transport by Salihli Municipality and by my side, and we're demanding that these bridges be built, but we're not getting any results from the developments. Once again, I'd like to ask the minister to take care of the problems of Salihli. Salihli-Akhisar road, especially in the summer months, is heavily used by heavy vehicles. The grapes that grow in Alaşehir, Sarıgöl, and Salihli have been moved to Istanbul by this road, and even Antalya and Denizli have taken the same route. However, this road was built to a certain extent, and then it was left unfinished. The area of the road, particularly around the district of Gölmarmara, is narrow and broken. In addition, construction of the road in the Lakemarmara-Akhhisar area has begun, but the road work remains incomplete for unknown reasons. This road, which is very important to the region and to our country, must be completed and resolved immediately. Again, the Kula-Salihlı region of the Izmir-Ankara road is not being resolved permanently. This path has been transformed into a puzzle board; roadwork has been under way for years. The land road in this region has become a Rant area of certain companies through tenders. The AKP is proud of its double roads, but in the Kula-Salihli region, the two sides of this double road do not come together. With problems watering villages and transportation, what budget, what plan will the new Metropolitan City City Law meet the needs of villages that have not been resolved in the ten-year AKP ruling? Members of parliament, there is a request for water from the Gördes Dam in the village of Lütfiye, Saruhanlı district. They can receive short-term water from the Demirköpru Dam in certain months. Because of the increase in product and drought, village residents who live on agriculture need to water their crops throughout the year. Therefore, the work needed to be done in order to be irrigated by closed systems in the region must be done immediately. Dear lawmakers, the nickel mines at Turgutlu Çi and Gördes are continuing to cause the environmental slaughter, while Soma has lost the lives of three of our citizens three times in the past three months due to insufficient control and job security in the coal mines, and two of them are the children of the same family. The controls in January must be free of political accounts, independent of the worry of creating wealth and protecting it, and accidents must be reduced to minimal by putting business and labor security first. That way, maybe it's mortal... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can you give me a little more time, I'll wrap it up.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0005par0051	Thank you, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0004par0052	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0005par0054	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, who asked for a double road to the Isparta-Antalya Creek road. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0006par0059	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book agreement that the road to the Derebold, which connects Central Anatolia to the south, should be made a double road. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, the story of this road should be known by today's generations as well as by the importance of transportation. The route we're talking about is the route that connects Ankara, Afyon and Antalya and crosses Isparta's freeway. In the 1950s, a group of country lovers laid down the foundation of my fellow citizens and founded an association to build a road for the first time in Turkey. Mustafa Kazakh, Yorgancı Memiş, Kadir Bozlu, Mehmet Ceyhan, Hüsni Altıntabak and many of my fellow citizens whose name I can't name, I hereby remember with charity and gratitude. It's one of the best examples of love for a grown-up named Mustafa Kazakh, who has to sell and pay the wages of road-building workers, thinking that it's a service to raise his children's pets. As a result of the work, the road to Derebolduk was launched in the 1990s, and it was made a state road by Mr. President Demirel. I would like to remind you once again that it is our responsibility to remember such sacrifices and exploits in the construction of the noose of Anatolian. Dear lawmakers, this road is also crucial to its advantages. The road of Bucacaca-Antalia, which we call the old road of 156 km, has dropped to 115 km by opening the river's throat, shortening 40 km by saving fuel and time. In the 2011 elections, Mr. Erdogan made a commitment to all Ispartas in Government Square to make the double road through the Dere throat and demanded the political support of the Ispartas. When Isparta gave so many votes to the AKP, the charm of this statement cannot be denied, but it has been decided to connect with Antalya through Bucaca, by changing the double path route, as the Prime Minister forgets this promise -- as if he told the truth in the karakol and was confused in court. This decision is a wrong decision in every way. There are objective grounds for the main route to the dill. ==Early life==Crying-Stealer-Bucay route includes Köroğlu Beli and Match Hill, which is difficult to cross in winter because of frost and ice. If the river's route is used, transportation to Antalya Airport will be shorter and more advantageous to East Antalya, including Manavgat and Alanya. The road to Burdur-Antalia, which is used to reach the Belt-Kaş side of the West, is already a double road. East Antalya is the fruit vegetable warehouse of our country. The Delegate Road is extremely important for transport trucks. It's also important for consumers because it's the most important cost in the fruit and vegetables trade, and it's going to cost their prices to be cheaper. Indoor roads are not used on the river throat route, so traffic is easier to monitor, but Burdur is obliged to cross the centre of Burdur on the Cry-Tracker-Bucay route. In terms of winter tourism, Isparta Davraz ski resorts are also important, and in the summer it is also important for bow-to-tourism. Honorable MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, have made promises in many places, it is up to the local AKP MPs not to forget them. But it is clear that the promise made in Isparta Square was forgotten, or that Isparta had been clearly overcome. I believe that all of Isparta's MPs feel the same way about the creek's route, they just don't dare say it, and it falls to our opposition MPs. Also, there should be no indication that there was any friction between Isparta and Burdur in the move to the council. Burdur and the people of Burdur are our people, and we will stand by everything that has been done to Burdur. Of course, as Isparta MP, it must be our most important duty to defend Isparta's law and interests. Dear lawmakers remind AKP lawmakers that the struggle for this road is an important service for Isparta, and that I immediately expect a double road route, a double route, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0007par0072	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a moment of my word to our lawmakers who have entered the system under Article 60 of the Civil Code. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0008par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. The main agenda of politics is the Patriot missiles Turkey has requested from NATO. However, the government's officials have shown a lack of seriousness in their statements again on such an important matter. If you ask in his statement a few days ago who's going to have the trigger, the trigger will be in our General Staff, our military will have it. Today, however, the NATO Secretary General answered the question, "Who will have the Tetik?" He said that NATO will be in command of the Patriots. Now, let's go back a little bit, the same scenario happened in Project Missile Shield. The AKP's government has set up so-called conditions on public responses, and among them is its deception that the commander will be in Turkey. The foreign military expert, who arrived yesterday, according to us, did research on the soil of the country, according to you, on NATO soil. Last week, our MP, Veli Ağbaba, was not brought in by military authorities and by the government. I'd like to remind you of that, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0009par0083	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0010par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Since our farmers are not paid to support grain, all farmland is impounded and victimized. I demand that this sacrifice be resolved at once. Two: Şanlıurfa is the highest province of unemployment in Turkey. Şanlıurfa is the province where AKP has won the highest vote. Since there have been no factories to reduce unemployment in Şanlıurfa for ten years, our Urban countrymen are victims. In the rule of the Republican People's Party, this unemployment in Şanlıurfa will be eliminated. Don't let our glorious fellow citizens forget that the Republican People's Party is the advocate and representative of all their victims, rights and law in the House. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0011par0090	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0012par0093	Mr. President, on Monday (November 19th 2012) we saw that the people of the Bell and all the workers and staff working there were agitated when 11 MPs from the Republican People's Party's Committee of the People's Party, and we visited the pits in Çanakkale district of Çanakkale. I'd like to ask the questions I'd like to be answered by Mr. Taner Star through you: 25 to 30 metres of land in the Department of Business of the Bells is being paid for, and with very little expense, coal is being made ready. We're receiving reports that a coal production cost is so low that a burner will be put into privatisation program and will be sequestered to the allies. Is this coal stove, which costs almost zero production, considered privatisation or privatisation? Is it right to privatize such an important furnace, given the state of the country's economy and the condition of the people who work on the stove? On March 18th Termik, which was agreed on to be met by the stoves here until the bell was set up and the coal was finished.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0011par0095	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0013par0098	Thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to address a problem through you. In the amendment to the irrigation of the AKP (AKP) watering forces, they had already handed over the amount of watering per acre of the assembly of the irrigation troops to the DSI bureaucrats. This year, DSI bureaucrats set costs per acre, water prices per acre, and now in Adana, cotton costs 17 liras last year, and this year they moved it to 31 liras. How is it that when corn is below last year's price, when wheat is below last year's price, when cotton is below last year's price, with a 100 percent increase, they see the increase in cotton irrigation to the farmer? Is this the way of God? Do these people have a conscience? Do these people know enough about the people who live in that area? Do they not know that these farmers can't make money from their production, or are they officially hostile to the farmer by the AKP's hand? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0014par0101	Thank you, Mr Varli. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0015par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the school's new dress and clothing regulations and the school they've been studying can't wear badges, badges, badges, badges. It means you're banned from wearing an Ataturk badge. Also, sex is made public with shorts, tights, a skirt that covers your knees, a skirt with deep rips, short pants, a shirt without sleeves, and a shirt shirt without sleeves. Children of that age are being tried to make it look like they're tailors. It's the ground floor of sending girls to the husband, not the school. How do we erase all sorrows from the minds of Ataturk? And if he striveth against the forbidden, then he bringeth up the forbidden, and maketh the people nervous, even though he is a Musrifun (i.e. a tyrant, a tyrant, a tyrant, a tyrant, a tyrant, a tyrant, a tyrant, etc.). In schools, discrimination, peer pressure, jealousy, inferiority, and chaos will be created. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0016par0107	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0017par0110	Mr. President, according to a study by the Turkish Retirement Association, one of the poorest parts of our country appears to be retired. According to the survey, pensioners consume the most bread, while they consume at least red meat. As food, they are fed with bread, vegetables, pasta, and dried beans. Retired people who watch TV in their spare time can't go to cinema and theatre. Another result of the study is to show the extent of the victimization of our pensioners. Nearly 30 percent of our pensioners need the help of others in order to earn a living. While many live on with the help of their children and close relatives, many strive to make ends meet with the help they receive from the state and association. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0018par0115	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0019par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the government took office, its intolerance of opposition has been embodyed by operations against opposition party mayors and municipalities, and by raids, often carried out by inspections by Interior Ministry inspectors. Clearly, the pressure on opposition mayors as the general elections approaches is increasing, and even long technical surveillance and wiretaps have been taken into custody by the presidents and then released and discredited in the public's eyes. In particular, inspectorial audits for the municipalities of opposition parties in Balıkesir have been tightened, one of the inspectors has started to arrive, and even investigations have been launched into the spirit of the mayors. Even the charity our mayor gave his mother in Balıkesir was questioned. An inspector from the Ministry of Interior has made a report, but an inspector from the Ministry of Interior has arrived. So we're asking from here: What municipality has the AKP ruling investigated, and how many municipalities have they investigated?
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0018par0121	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0020par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, we're looking for a place to place Patriot missiles in our country while the world yearns for peace, and this is Southeast and Eastern Asia Minor. Apparently, 50,000 people who have died in Southeast and East Anatolia are not enough, and we want to turn the region back into a war zone. I demand that the government give up this decision immediately. That's enough, we don't want war to continue in Southeast. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0021par0127	Thank you, Mr. Firat. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0022par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. We know that the district of Dilova has come to Turkey's agenda with air pollution, chemicals, waste pollution. The ports in this region have been heavily weighed recently due to the closure of the port of Haydarpaşa. In addition to being filled by interested companies at the time, there are now companies in the sea, building ports in a new way, with no permission to fill them. So I wanted to point out that in Dilovasi, there is a region in which people's living spaces will be narrowed down in the coming period. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0023par0133	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0024par0136	Mr. President, thank you. Adana is the province of Kozan. From the midst of Kozan is a river called Tababah Creek, which runs through it, and water flows through it. It's a neighborhood, people live in it. Therefore, it violates health conditions. We've been working on it for ten years, but our demands for reform work don't come through. I'd like to extend my respects to the concerned lawmakers to take care of this reform work, this Tabak Creek. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0025par0139	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Dear Private...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0026par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, the Commission for Research on Impacts presented its report to the Speaker of Parliament and sent it to Parliament. On the other hand, the so-called September 12th trial continues. However, the government continues to take advantage of the flesh and milk of the coups, while the will, which governs this Assembly, is fighting the coups. He's taking advantage of the election dam, he's using the authority to issue a decree under the rule of law, and he's redesigning the institute of higher education, which he's so complaining about, by now making a change in his law. In last week's research conducted by a prestigious organization, 83 percent of the people are preparing to remove it from the Constitutional Law, as they ask that commitment to the Ataturk principles and revolutions be included in the Constitution. I present to you the two-way attitude of the High Council.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0025par0144	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Dawn...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0027par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. Since 2011, our farmer who delivered his bills has not been paid for his wheat support. When will the government pay for this? Also, beets producers have not been able to fill the quota for drought this year. Is the government taking any precautions on this? I wanted to announce it through you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0028par0152	Thank you, Mr. Dawn. Mr. Ediboglu...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0029par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. One of the main problems in our country is unemployment. Our young men, returning soldiers, knocking on all the doors for work, but they can't find a job. Meanwhile, AKP municipalities and AKP executives have entered a race to find jobs for Syrian refugees. Do our young people need asylum seekers to get jobs? I'm waiting for the answer to that question. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0030par0158	Thank you, Mr. Ediboglu. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0031par0161	Mr. President, I've just been interrupted, so I've made promises again. Last week, when I visited Manisa Kula County, the day before Teacher's Day, I found out that the teacher's lounge was closed. I was surprised when he answered the question, "Why?" Such locals are the facilities of meeting, uniting colleagues, social reunification. These facilities can't be damaged or profited, but because the AKP Powers is thinking of a runt all over the country, the teacher closes its facilities in different parts of the country, just like in the courthouses. While teachers deserve a more comfortable, secure social life, even their gains are equivalent to being taken from them and destroyed as an organized society. It is one of the most concrete indicators of political pressure, a quiet and unresponsive society, where trade groups unite, close their problems. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0032par0165	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Straight...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0033par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. As you know, the police have recently had an attempt to form a union. But unfortunately, this attempt is to be prevented by law enforcement officials by violating and violating all the laws that exist in our country. On the other hand, the police are being forced to sign a paper so they don't become members of this union. Mr. President, we would like Mr. Home Secretary to show one tenth of his interest in Angelina Jolie to his organization and remove the pressure and violation of the law of his own organization on the police. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0034par0172	Thank you, Mr. Straight. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0035par0175	Thank you, Mayor. Every day on TV, we are better off with what we eat. However, how can we be healthier if we breathe air? The subject is not processed, the people are not informed. In cities, people are poisoned by dirty air. What's a healthy diet without healthy air? In large cities, industrial and traffic density poisons our people. What is being done, what measures are being taken about poisoning the exhaust fumes of those living on the main streets? The World Bank's World Development Indicators 2012 Report shows Istanbul ranked 7th in the world with 120 micrograms per cubic meter of sulfur dioxide. Hanging in the air, the amount of materials in a cubic meter of less than 10 microns in diameter was 39 ▪ among the 111 cities in Istanbul. What does the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization do for cities that are plundered and airlessly contaminated by green fields and water basins? What's Mr. Topbaş doing for Istanbul?
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0034par0177	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0036par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. In Antalya, the Turfanda vegetable producers face the biggest collapse in their history. The people of Antalya, all producers, say that the manufacturer is now dead, and therefore they make the products they grow into coffins and pour them into teas and streams. Therefore, we expect urgent measures from the government to resolve this export issue. All Antalya stands, all manufacturers demand it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0037par0183	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0038par0186	Thank you. Mr. President, I wasn't really going to take any words, but... now in this Parliament, according to 60, the content of all the parliamentary speech demands are intended for our MPs to carry issues in the electoral areas to the government through Parliament. But what we've always seen today and in the past is that somehow in the process, we don't see a single minister in the ranks of the government. That is not the right thing to do. This is contempt for Parliament. It's a lack of seriousness. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0039par0189	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0040par0192	Mr. President, a quarry is being opened on the grounds of a speeding train in the district of Mashukiye, the district of Kopeli Cartepe. The reason for this quarry to be opened is that it is a national project, and instead of bringing stones from far away, the contractor is expected to transport stones from two kilometers - two kilometers [3 km] from the railways. However, despite such a condition and such a procedure in the tender, someone is tried to be pursued by the resources of the state and to be slaughtered by the Mashuki, which is known as the beauty of nature, the breathing area of Istanbul, and the field of Kopelis, which is full of greenery. For your information...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0041par0195	Thank you, Mr. Akar. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm reading it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 23/12/2011, the Biosecurity Board allowed 13 types of GMO corn to be used for bait. However, the reports of socioeconomic evaluations made by the same Biosecurity Committee to the scientific committees clearly show that GDO could not be digested and carried to cells, and the milk samples from the markets found DNA belonging to GMO-based feed, that even the pasteurization process could not destroy this DNA. Scientific reports on GMO have also been released by the president of the Biosecurity Board, which 15,000 people have expressed their views on. However, many of these 15,000 views have not been shared with public opinion, which many want GMO'Iu products. In this decision on GMO, the entire animal industry and thousands of food products, such as meat, milk, yogurt, cheese, and eggs, are also at risk. The manufacturers who use GMO-free bait are also punished in this way, because according to the legislation, the products of GMO-fed animals are not obliged to be labeled. As a result, the consumer will not know if the animal product he bought is GMO. However, the Biosecurity Act states that GMO and its products will be rejected if the consumer eliminates the right to choose. The lack of labels from GDO-fed animals eliminates the consumer's right to choose directly. Therefore, the decision is against the law. On the other hand, corn, which the Biosafety Board allows for bait, is also a product that is grown in our country. However, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism condemns our country to imports, not to do so when we can gain self-satisfaction by supporting the corn plant, by increasing our support. Because Egyptian support has been on the same level for the past four years, our country has been importing between 500,000 tons and 1 million tonnes of corn each year. However, this does not justify the import of corn to be GMO. Only 29 percent of the world's corn is produced by GMO seed, so 71 percent are GMO-free. In campaigns related to this permit issued by the Biosecurity Board, approximately 100,000 signatures were collected during the two-day period and transferred to the board. It has been seen clearly by our people's signatures and opinions that they do not want to consume GMO products. In the event that the basis of this decision, which ignores public opinion, and is generally used in direct or indirect food production of GMO products, we offer and propose that our Constitutional Court study be opened and conducted under Articles 104 and 105, in order to determine and take necessary measures to determine the harms of human health and environment, producers using GMO-free bait. [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Malatya]] [[Artvin]] [[Ardahan]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Army]] [[İstanbul]] [[Bolu]] 16) Aydın Agha Ayadın [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 18) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Mughle]] 20) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 23) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the General Staff's statement on December 28, 2011, at 6:39 p.m., a group of people were spotted at the Turkish-Lrak border with drone footage and the time was 21.37-22. Between 24 p.m., this group was shot with air-force planes. As a result of the shooting, 35 of our citizens were killed. This incident on the Turkish-Iraq border in Uludere district of Şırnak province has caused a great deal of pain in our country. The event has also sparked a huge echo in the world, and the cause of the event has begun to be discussed on all levels and on every platform. Questions are being asked about the event in our country and in the world, and important questions are being made. Because it's not known why, how, how, and under what circumstances, the basis of intelligence and which chain of command was followed in the event of this incident. In this case, it is not known which institutions and individuals are responsible, and it is of great importance to expose them. How drones (IHA) have been shown as the basis of the incident, how the images and intelligence that they have acquired have been transferred to the centers, who have decided in these centers, and what data they have taken into consideration and whether the images that come from these vehicles are subject to filtering or analyses, must be investigated to ensure that this event is not to be illuminated and not to be followed. Although it is known by the official authorities that the region's people trade on the border and cross borders in groups, it is not known to the public who they are and for what purpose they are there. If he's been investigated enough, he expects to be answered as an important question for which reason the hit order was taken if it wasn't investigated. The discovery of all technical details of the event is of great importance, historically, socially and humanly, to determine who and how the decisions were made, and to conduct an investigation that leaves no doubt. Whether the official authorities of Şırnak province (vil and soldiers) are aware that such a large group has crossed the border, if not, the reason and the responsibility of this is to be identified; if the authorities are aware that this large group has crossed the border, it is important to investigate whether an inter-agency exchange of information has been conducted to prevent such an event from happening, and in this regard, it is important that all information and documents be disclosed to the public. What is the official or unofficial policy of the state concerning the ongoing border trade or trafficking in the region, instead, it is necessary to investigate and investigate whether different employment options will be created. It is a fundamental requirement to find out how to explain to the families of those who lost their lives, how and what kind of support these families will be given in the future, and what criteria are based on and shared with the public. In order to prevent the disaster from impacting our social peace, our brotherhood, and our will to live together, in order to ease the suffering and healing of those close to us, so that justice can work quickly and effectively, we propose and open Parliamentary research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, so that this black spot of our history may not be covered. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Army]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[Mughle]] [[Ardahan]] [[Tunceli]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 14) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Erzincan]] [[Edirne]] [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 22) Osman Oktay Soşi [[İstanbul]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation of the sugar beets industry and the producer's problems and solutions in our country should be opened in an effort to determine, explore ways to support, conduct administrative institutional and legal regulations. 1) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Inconceived]] 3) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Antalya]] 5) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] 8) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] 10) Fatma Nur Serter [[İstanbul]] 11) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[40s.]] [[İstanbul]] 15) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] 16) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Artvin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Gaziantep]] Sugar beets are an important part of agriculture in our country, and some 700,000 farmers farm sugar beets in 64 provinces. The sugar beets are a major industry that begins in agriculture and industry, starting with its planting, its anchor, its dismantling, its removal, its factory, its cantar, its sugar production, and then its melana, its tail, its pulp. And with the employment families from this sector, it changes between 11 and 12 million people. The production of sugar beets is supported by many countries in the world. But in our country, sugar beets production is limited to quotas, and sugar beets purchase prices are determined to not even cover costs. Sugar beets producers find it difficult to make a living on their product, but are owed by taking loans from banks, cooperatives. Beet farming, however, is one of the most important tools to keep the farmer in the village. The lack of support for the beets sector, quotas, the lack of value of the product, increasing the quotas of NBA (steal-based sugar) will lead to the extinction of beet agriculture and the migration of close to 3 million farmers who support their beets. The sugarpanter industry is also intertwined with agriculture, livestock, food, medicine, meat, milk, transport, and service sectors. The issue is also a wholeness of various branches and tasks, such as agriculture, agricultural industry, processed basic food products and employment. Sugar has a comparative advantage over external market value and agriculture-based industries, according to alternative products, in terms of efficiency, profitability and added value. Sugar factories contribute greatly to reducing regional growth differences in our developing regions and in Eastern Anatolia, while in rural areas, employment. It provides about 25 to 30 million tons of work per year for the transport sector. The total economy of our country yields a significant yield, such as 1.2 billion dollars a year. Sugar beets agriculture is one of the first examples of contracted production in our country, which has allowed agriculture to integrate into industry and has created the cornerstone of food industry. The sugar beets are a plant that connects the farmer to the field and to the village, providing work and employment for all members of the family, while all of the byproducts are considered, as well as the inputs used in the production and processing period, and in many sectors it plays an important role to increase the value of addition. There are many factors in sugar beets production that affect the amount of products. So the beet producer doesn't know how many crops he can produce from the sugarcane he planted. However, the manufacturer pays a fine for the surplus or lack of quotas he has produced. This is an unjust practice and must be removed immediately. Another problem is the quotas applied. For example, Adapazari has a large capacity for beet production, but meets its needs from Eskişehir, 180km away. The most beet-producing district of Yozgat is Bosporalıyan, where farmers sell their beets for C quotas, instead of the sugar factory in their districts, to the Inquisitor Candy Factory 70km away. In order for the beet industry to stand on its own feet in our country, it is necessary to provide regular beets to factories with sugar production, guarantee the market of beets and sugar producers, recognition of the ability to produce homogeneous beets among beet producers across the country, and to provide corn, such as beets, beet sugar and corn, which is the raw ingredient of the NBA sector, to provide regular income for producers, and sustainability and protection of sugar production, sugar production, sugar production and prices throughout the country. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and then vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Wednesday 28/11/2012 (today), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Interior Charter. On March 9, 2012, İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel and his friends gave 729 rows (729 rows no. lu) The parliamentary inquiry proposed to Turkey's Grand National Assembly to investigate the problems of students who are opposing, thinking differently and showing democratic reactions in universities in Turkey has been taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and proposed to be read in the presentations on Wednesday 28/11/2012 and held in the same dated joint of talks. In his favor, Idris Baluken, the Bingol MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0042par0395	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a promise on the research motion we've made to investigate the pressures of college students. I salute your committee. Dear lawmakers, we face a concept of oppression and intimidation that has long been carried out by the AKP against the entire social opposition. From trade unionists to lawyers, from politicians to students, there is not a social area where almost AKP's pressure policies do not apply. The concept of pressure also includes one of the most concentrated areas of the concept of liquidation. In fact, we know that the profile of the AKP's college student in his head is at a point where he does not think, question, technically aims to receive a degree in university life, where he does not have an element that contradicts the system in any way. The problem is that at this point, this mentality contradicts students at the university's insistence that they are free individuals who express their thoughts freely. Under the direction of the AKP government, pressure operations are being carried out by both university administrations and rectors, as well as by judicial and police elements under AKP's command, which demonstrates this personality structure, this approach to its opinion. As if these pressure operations were not enough, some civilian gangs were organized in the university under police protection, and under police protection there were all kinds of attacks on revolutionary, dissident, Kurdish students. Finally, in Elazığ, Ankara, Faculty of Language and History-Geography, the University of Marmara, Giresun Shebinkarahisar, under police protection, all the public knows the situation of the students who have been injured by the attacks of these civilian gangs. In fact, as of today, it's a bit important, as you know, the Commission for Research on Impacts has issued a statement of results. In fact, the AKP offers a vision of facing impacts, facing the coup of September 12th, but in the institutional process, it continues as a policy to protect all elements of the coup to penetrate every aspect of life. One of the most focused areas of this policy is universities. The SEC, an institution of September 12 coup in the university, is the main source of pressure on academics and students in the same way. In general, there is one thing that all of these policies, NGOs, police, judicial pressure targets: creating a smoking student profile, creating a profile that doesn't think, doesn't question, doesn't scientifically renovate, doesn't produce. So, after finishing college, as a cheap labor force, for our college graduates, for our college students, there was a role and a mission cut by the AKP. The most concentrated part of the operations conducted at this university are students who are Kurdish and opposition. I've just stated, especially regarding the indictments of these proceedings under the name of AKP operations, I invite all lawmakers in parliament to review these indictments. If there's a law-enforcement attorney who will take over one of the charges brought against you by your legal identity in these indictments, we're really ready to take it all back. With these operations that exist on students, nearly 1,000 college students have been thrown into prisons. This is an embarrassing picture in a country's history of democracy. Nearly 1,000 students are sent to prisons because of AKP government policy, while in libraries they should be in scientific education at universities. Look, I'll give you just a few examples in the last month, and even in the last 15 days, more than 30 students have been taken into custody in Pamukkale, November 14th. On November 26, 6 students were taken into custody at İzmir Aegean University; on November 27, 20 students were taken into custody. 16 students were detained in detention operations in Şırnak province on November 27. We can tell these samples here for hours. The charges made in the indictment are based on phone calls. In the calls held by Kurdish students among themselves, the word,,,,, "friend", entered indictments as "being a member of an organization." Reading the "Hernepesh March" from the Ministry of Culture was considered a crime by these judges or prosecutors. Students who have shown democratic reaction that prices are too high in the canteens have been accused of membership in the organisation. Again, the hanging of posters on March 8th, World Women's Day, March 21st, and all activities related to Nevroz have been cited as crimes in these indictments. We know about your government's failure in the Van earthquake. From the Vans under the rubble to the co-ordination of aid, all of Turkey knows what troubles the Van people have experienced in the first month. Most of the students who want to carry out these fiascos you've done on a voluntary basis are now being criminalized and sent to prisons. In the indictments, look, it's called Gulan Kılıçoglu, a student of the Faculty of Political Sciences, living a life contrary to the flow of normal life. There's no way a lawyer could possibly come here and defend the existence of such a crime. (x) The word was expressed in non-English by the Hajip in this chapter. Of course, there are medical school students, and I'd like to do a special parentheses for them. In this country, 13 students who have entered the top level in Turkey and entered medical school are currently under arrest in Sincan Prison for five months. The way students make phone calls amongst themselves, the way they file indictments, it's ridiculous. Tests -- you know -- they're called "committee" in medical school, and phone calls about the committee went through the indictment as the ▪KCK committee. I mean, there's no such disgrace, there's no such injustice, there's no such injustice. Again, meetings held at Hacettepe University at the People's Health Research Association approved by the rectorship have been considered organised meetings. Medical scans conducted by medical students in the neighborhood have been placed on these indictments through organizational studies. These med students have been in prison for five months, and they've lost two terms as they stand. We have medical doctors here, we have friends who have passed medical school education, you all know what the two semesters mean for families and for students, financially, spiritually. The indictment considers it a crime to ask for health in the native language, and it is a crime to ask for health without money. In fact, some principled approaches in the existing regulations of the TTB and the SES are being threatened. I'm especially inviting all paramedics to watch this case on December 5th, the trial of these medical students. This shame must be removed from the judiciary at once. These students are among the top 500 most successful students in Turkey; the judiciary must conduct a process of removing this ridiculous shame in the middle, which is what the public expects. All medics must also be in Ankara's Courthouse to monitor this case on December 5th. Look, under the roof of Congress, we have established a commission to prevent violence in health, and the commission is continuing its work. There are extremely well-intentioned studies. I mentioned it on the commission's agenda. I'm inviting them back here. It's the greatest, greatest violence the state has ever inflicted on medical students. Psychological torture, do you think it's physical torture to be thrown into prisons, it's violence. The Commission for Violence in Health is tasked with going to Sincan Prison, a few miles away, meeting with our friends, identifying the situation in its place and eliminating the shame. Our friends from the Republican People's Party, our medical friends, went and met with these students. We also expect the same approach from the medics at the ruling party. Go there, see those students, and you will bear witness as to what shame your signature is under. I don't get involved in the current problems at the university because we don't have time, but I don't, especially this one at the university... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...about judicial processes, before the House, there is a page of shame that must be removed as soon as possible in terms of the country's democratic future. That's why we expect all of you to support this research proposal. This research could also be signed by a research commission that would remove both these unlawfulities and expose the problems of students at the university. He expects sensitivity from all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0043par0414	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Against you, Congressman Senol Gürşan of the 40s. Here you go, Mr. Gürsan.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0044par0418	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the support of the Peace and Democracy Party group. I salute the General Assembly. The Peace and Democracy Party has made a motion in Turkey to establish policies for the construction of free, autonomous and democratic universities in Turkey to investigate, identify, identify the problems the students face, their opposition, different thinking and democratic demands, their reactions. First, we need to make this determination: the EC PARTY, which has been in power since 2002, has not only been in universities, but has been making necessary arrangements for the liberation and democratisation of every part of society, and has been taking steps forward for the past decade. In this sense, constitutional amendments have been made, three judicial packages have been implemented, the custodyist understanding has been fought to the end, and the latest -- as the previous character addressed -- the Commission for Research of Impacts has been established and has been set in motion for the trial of coupgers. When we look at the reasons for the group's proposal, we also see the reasons for the fact that the first is the right to defend in the main language, the demand for arrested students and free education. The legal regulation on the right to defence in the main language expressed in the basis of the research motion is already in the Parliamentary Justice Commission and will come to Parliament in the coming days. This request is a request in our EC PARTY 4th annual Congress, in which our Prime Minister spoke and again included in our September 30th political vision of politics, 2023. This is our project, and we're already implementing the project. As for the matter of the under arrest students, now, there have been two different studies in the public record before, and I'm going to bring them up. One of them is the Tunceli MP Huseyin Aygün and the "Consistency Initiative for Solidarity with Arrested Students" (Tunceli MP Huseyin Aygun). In 2011, 500 arrest student reports by CHP Tucson MP Hüseyin Aygün are as follows: Although 500 people are considered to be included, 227 people are listed on the list. And when these names are examined, it appears that 40 people have no record in prison, 52 people have been released, 25 have been graduates of elementary school, high school dropouts or college graduates, and 110 have been college graduates. Again, the second report, prepared by the Inmate Students' Solidarity Initiative, mentions 771 arrested students, both reports contradict each other in that sense. After reviewing the list of 771 people in the second report, we find that 38 people were written multiple times, 138 people were released on different dates, 138 people were never in prison, 20 people were illiterate, 14 people were in open school, 14 people were in open school, 49 people were in school, 3 people were in secondary school, 3 people were in school, 80 were out of university education, 44 were in high school, 73 were out of high school graduates, 87 were in college students.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0045par0425	So, how many students are there in prison, Mr. Shenol? You're the government, you tell the truth.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0044par0426	Now, in a report by the Solidarity Initiative with the Arrested Students, 65 people have been tried and convicted. The charges against those convicted and convicted are: membership in an armed terrorist organization such as PKK, TKP/ML, TİKKO, DHKP-C, deliberately killing, making drugs and stimulus and supplying, territorial possession, unauthorized possession of dangerous substances, dissolution of persons by multiple people, destroying one person, by the use of looting, algebra, threats, or deception, depriving a person of freedom, armed robbery, theft, theft, terrorism, burning and public property. Now, the question asked after all of this data was: I wonder if the Ministry of Justice's response to a question motion was expressed in prisons with 2,824 students. Where is this data coming from? How many college students are there in Turkish prisons? There are 2,824 students in Turkish prisons as of January 31, 2012. However, today, as a result, the number of university students held in prison on November 8, 2012 is 87. And we're going public from here. Again, we, the AK PARTY, are opposed to methods such as pressure, ban, restrictions. However, if there is a terrorist organization behind the actions and these actions turn into physical violence, and ultimately one crime is committed, you have to distinguish them from the other. In this sense, not just students, but anyone who commits crimes in terms of the Criminal Code, regardless of their profession, is being tried and must also be tried. There is no excuse for students to be judged in such a way. And as we see on television, it is absolutely necessary for some of our students at universities to break glass, frames, throw stones at police, and to do so in the face of physical violence, even acts aimed at dividing the country. That's what the legislation predicts when it comes to doing so. In no democratic country in the world, there is no ruling that those who have committed acts of terror and violence knowingly will be immune in this sense. Again, one of the reasons is the demand for free education. Dear friends, we've taken really important steps in this matter since 2002 as the AK PARTY Power. As you all know, many studies are being done in the field of education from the day we came for the education of the children of this nation to grow up with quality and quality. The budget, for the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, is earmarked by the government of the EC PARTI, for the most part. From primary school to university, we have taken many steps to help our children to study, to raise quality, qualified people. College tuition was removed during our term. This year, 150,000 college students received scholarships and 403,000 student student loans. The number was 432,572. The total number of students receiving scholarships and student loans is 1 million 304. You know, we've also increased scholarships in this sense, we've made $260, because we care that the children of this nation are educated, that they're qualified, that they're qualified, and we've done the necessary work so far, and then we'll take the necessary steps. Because we believe that education is everyone's right. We even got the inmates to take the college exam. On every level of training, we have expressed that we are in favor of equality of opportunity and opportunity. In our election declaration, we've been able to provide more resources to education based on effective planning in the field of education, and then we'll continue to transfer it. Again, as a university professor, we will increase the number of faculty members to 80 grand, with 20 students per student in the short and middle term, and in 2023, we will raise that number to 100,000. We, in power, do our part to make sure that the children of this nation can read from elementary school to college, and the people of quality and quality can grow up. Therefore, I declare that I will vote against the group's proposal, and I hereby salute your grand delegation with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0046par0434	Thank you, Mr. Gürsan. On the other hand, İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz. Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0047par0438	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, we have taken and supported the proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party to form a parliamentary research commission for the construction of free, autonomous, democratic universities. I hope you'll support it. How to build a free, autonomous, democratic university, what kind of problems students are having, and it's a reasonable, reasonable, innocent demand to be investigated by the Supreme Assembly. I assume you'll support that. Dear friends, universities, as you know, represent the city of universal science where students are free to express their thoughts, free of any political, religious oppression. When you look at human history, both in Islamic history and in the Middle Ages, enlightenment began because of universities in the history of Europe. Again, in the Ancient Greek era, universities were primarily places based on free thinking, especially on science, which is free from religious pressure on society. Hence, today's problem in our country is related to this problem at the university. Students, teachers, for example, don't want a fuze shield; we want a democratic university, democratic high school. They say, they're being sued, they're being sentenced to six years in prison. I mean, I'm really surprised. Yeah, these are our kids, so they're all our kids. I mean, your kids are studying college, young, young, restless, freely explaining your idea, maybe a little bit radical -- maybe a little bit natural -- the police are taking these people, questioning them in various ways, let's see, organization member, no. You did this, you did that, you kept forbidden literature. You're a member of a terrorist organization. There are over 20 college students who have been imprisoned for more than two years, dear friends. So these are the sons of this country, the resources of this country; we need to keep them. I just want you to empathize. Look, Mr. Prime Minister spent four months in prison for reading a poem, he used his victims in every way, he became Prime Minister, and he still uses it, doesn't he? Sir, I've read a poem, I've expressed my opinion; that would not happen! Today, dear friends have expressed the same opinion that over 600 students, many of the arrested students, are in the same situation. He might think differently, it's only natural, so he should be a college student. Young man, his name is on it. I mean, let's just let these kids be free to say their ideas that are shocking, disturbing, disturbing society unless they're violent with someone else, unless they're raping someone else's space of freedom. If we don't support this, if we don't remove these obstacles in front of our students, there will be no democracy in this country, no human rights, no science. Our friend who just spoke on behalf of the AKP Group, we're against the Esed regime. He says, "We're against pressure, we're against constraints." But now the biggest pressure is in universities. So the students were arrested for twenty-two months from Galatasaray University, and Rauf Düzöz, from Ege University, who was arrested for three years. Gülşah Lightman (student) was sentenced to six years in prison, not a fuze shield. As a lawyer, I really can't believe it. Oh, you'll say, "Sir, here's the verdict. "Blah, blah, blah." Friends, the judiciary is not independent, and you know it's not independent; it's one. Two: the law manipulates, the police manipulate. I've been a prosecutor for 24 years and nine months. The police bring the papers to the prosecutor, sir, these students, they did this, they did this, we heard them talk, they talked about the committee... they're talking about the exam committee, my friend just told me, the exam committee. You're arresting this student because it's the KCK committee. Look, we've got friends in Turkey -- we've got teachers, we've got teachers, we've got medical doctors -- getting into the first thousand today, we've got the first 2,000 -- they're shiny kids, it's a shame. Most of our kids can't get in, my daughter can't get into med school. So, now, these children, 13 medical students, the children who entered the first 500, are currently under arrest in Sincan Prison. It's a shame, isn't it, the resources of this country? Sir, you're a member of the ACK, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, It's not the government's job to reform these young people by putting them in prison like this. You're not reforming, you know. So he may have radical ideas, he may be defending the ACK's views, but the moment you put it there, then you make a terrorist out of it, and then you put pressure on it, because citizens, conscience, human dignity will rebel against injustice. That's what it's like to be a human being when he says enough is enough. The one whom God has given him, me, the soul, the soul, the spirit, whatever you may call him, commands that he should rebel against injustice in his work. This student therefore, when you do wrong, when you are unfair, when you are unfair, rebel, says, "Enough. " He sees rebellion against the state as legitimate for himself. The state is an institution that is already built on justice, which means that an unfair state has no legitimacy, its legitimacy is debated. Again, if the state is not fair, the right of the people is legitimate, they can take back their rights and use those rights. So, dear lawmakers, sir, this is the advice of the BDP, the proposal of the CHP, the proposal of the MP. Please don't look at it as a serious matter. What's wrong with our universities? Why are our students in trouble? Let's support the motion to open a parliamentary investigation on this matter, get a commission. We have very valuable university workers, professors, academics, lawyers, and what can be done, what can be done, how can we gain our youth? Even if you think someone's taking these students and putting them in terrorist organizations, even if you think about it, how can we prevent it, so let's look into it, so where's the problem, why is the student going there? You're telling me, sir, he's being tricked out of the mountain or something. Well, why is he being tricked? I mean, you can't fool this guy as a government, but why would a terrorist organization cheat him? Where's the problem? I think you need to be supportive in order to investigate these matters. So, these children are ours, these children are ours. Without further ado, I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0048par0453	Thank you, Mr. Original. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0049par0456	Mr. President, speaking on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the speaker said that the numbers we gave were not true, that the number of arrested students inside was approximately 87. It was a determination to mislead both the House and our people. That's why I...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0050par0457	It's on the record, Mr. President. Our friend said something else.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0049par0458	So it's a taunt, in a way that gives us the wrong point, that's what it means.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0051par0459	Here, fix it, please.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0049par0462	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, just now, he said that only 87 students were under arrest, and I said about a thousand students. Look, on January 31, 2012, Justice Minister Sadullah Ergin gave an answer to the question motion issued by CHP Manisa MP Free Special: 2.824 student prisons as of January 31, 2012, 1,778 have been arrested and 1,046 have been convicted. 609 of the prisoners were arrested on charges of membership in an armed terrorist organization and 178 of the convicted students were accused of being a member of an armed terrorist organization. Of course, there's an open mind to this organization membership business. You know, Jahan Redgül was considered a member of the organization, studying at Galatasaray University, wearing the ball. Look, there's Eman Kerimoglu at Mersin University, who was identified as a member of the organization for sharing news with the Redhack Group. At Dicle University, Ridvan Çelik was charged with membership because he participated in DTP and BDP activities, which he had chanted and performed with marching and songs and kept his pace in several photographs, and because his mouth was open. A senior student from France who came to Turkey, Sevil Sevir, was accused of being a member of the organisation for attending the Group Comment concert. So all of the numbers mentioned here are baseless, it's a lie; let them ask the Justice Department first, get the right information, and then come here. And in the speech, of course, the colleges have accused students of throwing stones at the police. I mean, what's a cop doing in college? You need to question that. In autonomous college, the police don't have any jobs. Look, in America, the policeman who gassed students on the university campus was fined millions of dollars in compensation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In all things, you imitate America, and in all politics, you serve as a servant...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0052par0468	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0049par0469	But you come here and say different things about this kind of thing. So I think it's important to correct this information. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0052par0471	Thank you. Against him, İstanbul MP Türkan Dağoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Mountainoglu.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0053par0478	Teacher, these are our children, the educators, they're all being taught, Hajji.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0054par0479	Mr. Hodja, you're a medical school professor.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0055par0480	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party. The EC PARTY believes that universities are the most important element of development and democratisation in all areas. A society that does not use human capital effectively is also doomed to lose its competitive chances. Our party, which believes that the first priority in the allocation of public resources should be given to investments in education, is approaching education with that consciousness. On the other hand, as an EC PARTY, I believe and believe that the educational system should not be made the arena of ideological quarrels. By their definition, universities have to be a platform with the ability to judge, to have the ability of free mind, to think through scientific data and resources, but in the context of democratic norms, all individuals are obliged to express their political thoughts without harming other individuals who think differently, without having to influence their thoughts in the right direction, and without harming the country's unity and integrity, without being part of dark structures that aim to destabilise. We are not preventing any protests that have been taken from the police authorities in accordance with the laws that regulate the meetings, demonstrations, as long as they remember that they are citizens of this country, that they express their opinion within the civil and legal criteria, that they do not harm their environment, public property. Don't let them make a state's stanza out of it, making secret nets around them. On the other hand, since it was a headdress in its day, in my years of university, we have many times received writing and did not let these students enter the class. When it is called "Objectives," never take this student to class because of ethnic discrimination. Such an article, such as this one, I have never received in my life for thirty-five years of teaching.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0056par0486	They're taking him to prison, Mr. Hajji.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0055par0487	I don't think it's sincere that silences now come with such suggestions in the face of persecution for our young people who are under pressure and forcedness. The liberal practices of the EC PARTY have been eliminated at the moment they were detected by ideological pressure, impose and antidemocratic practices on faculty and students at universities. Colleges can have different ideas. Colleges are supposed to be places where all kinds of ideology is discussed, that's natural. It is also natural that all political, social, economic, and cultural developments in Turkey affect our children. In our universities, they train the executive staff of Turkey, their politicians, their communications experts; individuals who produce good services for our country are born. We're not looking at our young as potential criminals, we're looking at them as human capital. This is clearly proven by the resources we transfer to the training area and the universities we build in each of our cities. Of course, if the AK PARTY hadn't been in such a liberal approach, there would have been no visible increase in university numbers. In 2002, 41 of the 81 provinces had no universities. Now there's no province without a university. In 2002, the number of state and foundation universities was 76, and we raised the number to 168, with 92 new universities that we had established. We came to unite, not to separate, as the Lord put it so beautifully. Where the balance between difference of opinion and contradiction is disturbed based on common sense, so is the harm done by the universities, my representatives. We believe that our universities will set up this delicate balance correctly and carry out their mission in the development of Turkey. We've never agreed to anything called resuscitation in both universities and the AK PARTY, but we've always been against it, and we've always tried to overcome it. Therefore, I will never, ever accept your remarks about these universities, about ethnic discrimination as a faculty member of a university. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0057par0491	Thank you, Mr. Mountainoglu.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0058par0492	Don't you have an opinion for medical students, Mr. Hajji? There are 13 medical students... you're a medical professor.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0055par0493	If it's against the law...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0058par0494	Look into the indictment. You're acting against the law.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0059par0495	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit01spe0060par0496	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0060par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 30th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Peace and Democracy Group's proposal did not have enough decisions to vote on. Now, I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who don't accept... There's hesitation in numbers, so I'll vote electronically. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the Peace and Democracy Party Group's proposal has not been accepted. Now, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and then vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 28/11/2012 meeting on Wednesday (now), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On Wednesday (January 11th 2012) it has been suggested that our parliamentary research motion to determine and resolve the problems of cotton producers in the region of Chukurova, which we have given the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, read 28,11,2012 (now) in the General Assembly, and discuss their talks in today's Union in order to determine the measures to be taken accordingly. In his favor, Adana MP Muharrem Varlı. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0061par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the motion to investigate the problems of cotton manufacturers. On this occasion, I salute you all. When we think of cotton, we think of many parts of our country. Here is Aydın, İzmir, Manisa in the Aegean Region; Antalya, Mersin, Adana in the Mediterranean Region; Shanlıurfa in the Southeast Anatolian Region; Şanlıurfa in Diyarbakır, Gaziantep (; part of the region of Eastern Anatolia; cotton is a very important industrial plant that provides and provides jobs in many parts of our country, as well as in the eastern Anatolia region. In the past years, our cotton-picking, cotton-waving farmers have now, unfortunately, been running from cotton bread. Of course, there are very important reasons for that. We would expect that the AKP Group would take this motion very seriously and that such a research group would take this motion seriously, and that it would be researched, its reasons would be uncovered, and so on, but we're looking at the proposal that we've come up with, which, unfortunately, didn't come up with such a positive response from the AKP Group. So we've come here to share these problems with our farmers and our dear congressman friends. Cotton manufacturers, in extreme distress, can't make money off their crops, so they don't want cotton bread, so unfortunately they've given up cotton bread. The main reason for all of this is that, you know, the input costs are very high. The honorable MPs used to be called "pamuk" and the rich cotton manufacturers of Çukurova would come to mind. The cotton producers, which are the subject of Turkish films, would have come in, would have come in, would have come in, would have been in, would have been in, would have been in, would have been in, would have been in, would have been in, would have been in, would have been in, would have been in, would have been in, would have been in, would have been in, would have been in, would have been in, would have been in, would have been in, would have been in, would have been in, would have been in, would have been in, unfortunately, would have suffered, unfortunately, and unfortunately, if the amount of interest he was working with the bank. Dear lawmakers, we used to plant a lot of cotton in Adana, so we're not planting cotton right now. Why? Some cotton fields turned into citrus gardens, mostly corn. Why? Because our cotton-planting people aren't happy with cotton bread. We missed their happiness, their joy, their joy. The speakers who always come up here talk about support. When the Minister of Agriculture comes up here, it's like all the problems of agriculture have been solved in Turkey, our farmers are very satisfied, they're making money off their crops, they're willing to farm, and they're showing a painting like they're making money, but when we look at it, it's really not like that at all when we land in the field. Today, cotton costs the farmer $1.6 per kilogram, which is $1,600,000 per pound. The current free market value of cotton is between 1.1 and 1.2, which is between $1,100,000 and $1,200,000. The total bonus support you've given me -- I'm saying this at the highest level, I'm saying this for certified seeds -- the maximum premium support, the diesel support, the total of $460,000, when you add both of them together, makes $1,660,000. So the money that the farmer spends on a kilogram of cotton -- cotton, plus, with support -- stays hand in hand, working with the torture, the torture, the equipment he uses, the tractor, and the bank -- which he doesn't have -- is unfortunately a profit for his interest. My dear friends, under the circumstances, would you plant cotton? That's why Turkey can only produce four million tons of cotton and one and a half million tons of cotton. Why? Because the farmer doesn't plant cotton. Where's the rest of this 2.5 million tons of dead cotton coming from? It's imported from other countries. Where do we make the biggest imports? Seventy percent of the time, unfortunately, we do it from the U.S.A. So my farmer can't grow this cotton? Can't my farmer be a cotton-picker on American cotton? Of course he does. Of course, he'd be happy to do it, and he'd grow cotton, cotton, and contribute to this country much better than the American farmer, the European farmer. But what are we doing? We're importing cotton for 2.5 million tons of cotton, and we're doing it from the U.S.A. at 70 percent. My dear friends, I mean, when you were talking about support, in 2002, it was about this big, and we gave this much support. Gee, you didn't even give the farmer a tenth of the money you got from the farmer in return for the tax, the gas tax you got from the farmer, the fertilizer tax. If we had given our farmer the support that the United States gave to its farmer, the support that Europe had given to its farmer, he would have been in much better places today. In the United States, agricultural diesel is $1.7, which is $1,700,000 in old money. You've always come to power in 2002, saying, "We'll give you cheap gas." We're always waiting for that cheap diesel, you can't afford a cheap diesel, but you've raised the diesel fourfold from $1.2,200,000 to $4.2 today, you've brought it to $4.2,200,000. You're always saying, "Where from?" Right, where from, from $1.2 to $4.2. But how much is cotton? Pamuk is between $1.1 and $1.2 in 2002, which is between $1.100,000 and $1,200,000 in old money, and he's still counting at the same place. The wheat, below last year's price, the corn, below last year's price, is already in hand with the watermelon. Thus, because of the troubles in the Middle East, because of the wrong foreign policy being followed, the potato and onion manufacturer also suffered, and they remained, but we were left with $4.2. Do you know what 20-20 base fertilizers cost in 2002, my dear friends? About $250,000, which is 25 cents today. How much is it now, 2012? That's $1.1 million, which is $1.100,000 in old money. So you've increased that four times, so God bless you. As the farmer's largest input increased the diesel and fertilizer fourfold, the farmer's product continued to count in its place, and the farmer's product became worthless. And then you come out here, and you talk about it like everything's fine, and you've done the best, and you've done the best, and you're proud, and you're proud, and you're proud, and you're proud. You get a little embarrassed, you get bored. I mean, how did you take over the farmer, what did you do? So, when the Minister of Agriculture comes out, he's talking about loans from the Agriculture Bank. That's right, the farm bank's loans have gone up a lot. Is this going to be okay? I mean, I doubt the mind of a person who brags about it. If the farmer's doing well, why would he go and get interest loans from the bank? He buys from Denizbank, he buys from Financebank, he buys from the Bank of Agriculture. Look at all the agricultural banks in Turkey, the farmer gets the most loans out of all of them. If the farmer is in good shape, if the economy is good, why is the farmer getting so many credits? And most of these loans are out of farmer's hands right now, my friends. So, when you're talking about 2002, you're saying that the interest rates were 40 percent, 50 percent. I'm going to borrow money from Ahmet, and I'm going to turn it off, and then I'm going to pay Ahmad back when I take my loan. Unfortunately, that's what the farmer's coming to right now, my friends. But when you get out here, bragging and bragging, that's how much we've helped, we've given bonus support, we've provided this much support. Look, I told you here last year, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't take this authority from the watering troops when the Irrigation Units Act is being changed. The bureaucrats of the DSI don't know the condition of the farmer. I said, you didn't listen. At present, 17 million liras have made the cotton price $31 million per acre, the bureaucrats of the DSI. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is God the answer? What did you give the farmer to raise the $31 million 100 per cent all of a sudden?
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0062par0037	Thank you, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0061par0038	He wishes to accept our motion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0062par0040	Against him, Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici... No. On the other hand, Hatay MP Hasan Akgöl. Here you go, Mr. Akgöl.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0063par0043	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the opinion of the Republican People's Party Group on the proposals of the National Movement Party. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, in our country, the consumption of cotton production is 30 percent. So we produce only 30 percent of what we need from the domestic market, and we import 70 percent from foreign markets, or foreign countries. We're a textile exporter country, but most importantly, we're buying raw cotton from the outside. Çukurova, Amik and Harran Plain are the most productive cotton farming areas in the world, but the manufacturer has given up cotton production because of the wrong policies. Imagine a country whose land is suitable to produce cotton, its climate is right, its conditions are right, but it only meets 30 percent of its domestic needs. In 2010, this country paid $1.7 billion to buy 890,000 tonnes of cotton, and in 2011, as of August 2011, $1.4 billion only for cotton imports, which is the village Mehmet Aga. They call it the free market, the prices are lower than that. My friend, will you sit down and think about what free market? My farmer's diesel -- as Mr. Muharrem said just now -- let him burn the fertilizer for $4.2, let him buy the fertilizer at $1.5, let him buy the medicine at three times the price on the outside market, let him get 42 cents for support, let the farmer on the outside use the diesel at one dollar, let him use the fertilizer at my price, take the medicine cheaply from me, let him get 70 cents for it, and you say you want to compete with it. First, you know how to compete with it, then my farmer knows how to compete. That's what we want to say. Imported cotton... you put funds on imported fibers, and when the threadman brings in fibers from the outside, he has to pay for it, but when it comes to cotton imports, you don't fund it. We say: "When the inside market is finished, sees what we need, remove the fund if we need it; go from the outside to import as much cotton as the outside threader wants, but first you have to evaluate the cotton my farmer produced. It was cotton, white gold, which was the livelihood of our millions of citizens, who were concerned closely with their additives and their creations, of Çukurova, of Harran, of our people in Amik Plains. What is it now? Look, this white gold, thanks to this government, unfortunately you've brought it into an unqualified state, into a black product. This was white gold, the white gold of the region, of the Amik Plain, of the Plains, of the Plains of Harran, when people have introduced it for years. He called it the black product. Now the farmer says, how do I get rid of it? And the current government brings the alternative product project to the commission tomorrow. So it says: "Don't plant the cotton, brother; let me teach you alternative products." Isn't Turkey a country that produces cotton? How can you tell this farmer not to plant cotton, but to bring it? So what do we do, plant cannabis, plant cotton, plant heroin? Why not plant cotton? You call it alternative product. You can't make me an alternative product.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0064par0048	It doesn't work. It doesn't suit you. What's with the language? Do you look good in that kind of language?
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0063par0049	That's the way it is at that price. It's the only way the government can live up to that policy. Now, friends, I'm a farmer, and since I'm a farmer, I'm one of the most likely to suffer this blood, this wound. I'm sorry. There are at least a dozen cotton manufacturers at this time, unfortunately they're afraid to defend the rights of the masses they represent. I wonder how they get to their territory. Now, look, guys, cotton manufacturer, you're looking at diesel 4.2, fertilizer $1.5, the medicine's expensive. As the Republican People's Party, we had this program, and we said, let's make it $1. Let's narrow down the EVTs in fertilizers, diesels, medicines to 1%. If it happens to him, it happens to him. It's called lowering the entrances. In the event of lowering the entrances, only this farmer survives and competes with the outside market. That's what we're talking about. This is an agricultural country, my friends, not an industrial country. Especially Amik Plain, the Plains of Harran is an agricultural country, so please don't let anyone ignore it. Like my friend Muharrem just said, you're dating and you're talking about supporting me. How much has your ten-year support increased? Look at the costs. For ten years... my Muharrem friend said the price is a little too high, he said the price on paper. I'm a farmer. Ten years ago, I couldn't sell my cotton for $90, which is 950,000 for today's money, and now I can't sell it for 800,000, I can't sell it for 80 cents. What are you talking about? Look, guys, I'm a farm boy, I'm a farmer, I grew up a farmer. Do you know how a cotton grows? He grows up like a child. The seed of the reaper, from its coming forth to its harvest, shall not diminish anything of its medicine, its dung, and its diesel. When his kid's sick at home, the father doesn't take him to the doctor, but he takes his farmer. If he's got a wolf in his cotton, he'll throw out his medicine, he'll compost the cotton if he wants fertilizer, he'll give him what he wants. He grows cotton so delicately. In the old days, when the cotton harvest came, we used to sit and enjoy watching our cotton. So, we're going to get our product, we're going to buy a car, we're going to pay our debt, we're going to do this, we're going to do this... We're not going to the cotton field now. It used to be our stress-resistant organ. We'd go and watch our farm, relieve our stress, be happy. Now, I haven't set foot in my field in a month and a half. I'm gathering cotton today. What conscience could deprive me of that? What conscience could deprive that peasant of it, what conscience? You're going to say: "What do we do?" The only thing you're going to do is lower the taxes to lower the entries, and you're going to put funds like that on the cotton, just as you put them on the rope. When the cotton in the domestic market runs out, I'll be needed, my farmer's goods will be sold valuablely. You're gonna open the fund. That's all you can do, not to make the industrialist rich, but to protect my farmer's rights, my farmer's. I also speak to the ruling lawmakers here: be conscious, friends, we have come here with the votes of 70,000 to 80,000 people; we represent them here, we have to protect their rights, we need to know what their sweat is, we need to see it, we need to respect their sweat. This white gold must be restored, and it must be removed from the identity of blackness. It's our prestige against this world, our honor against this world. We're an agricultural country, we're an agricultural country, we're an agricultural country, then we're an industrial country. The people who live here are our people. We can't see what those people suffer from sitting here in pink seats, but when we go inside, when we live with them, when we suffer them. But my Minister -- as Mr. Muharrem Bey said -- paints a picture that -- had he come to Hatay last time -- did he come to Hatay, or did he not come to Hatay, or am I not in Hatay? Are we talking about different countries or are we in different states? Either he's not talking about Hatay, or I'm not in Hatay. There's an oxymoron here. I'm one-on-one. Either he won't give me any information about Hatay, or I'm in a very different situation. Ya, please see the facts, put your hand on your conscience, uphold the rights of the people you stand for, give this farmer a little hand. It's not just cotton, it's wheat, it's corn, it's olive, it's all the same. I leave you in the presence of God with your conscience. I believe you will uphold the farmer's rights and vote yes to this motion. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0065par0059	Thank you, Mr. Akgöl. Mr. Hamzacebi, you've entered the system.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0066par0061	I have a brief request for a statement according to Article 60, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0065par0062	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0066par0065	Thank you. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, today our producers in the Kazanlı district of Mersin, met to discuss the problems of agriculture and their economic problems, and they made a press statement. In this statement, our Mersin MP, Mr. Aytuğ Atcı, also joined them in support. After that, our farmers and our Mersin MP, Aytug Shotman, who were moved by a desire to take a walk, intervened in a way that the security forces would not have been pepper sprayed. I condemn the position of the security forces in this way, which is rather harsh. It's not right to try to keep people's voices down by setting up the bans, to keep the producers quiet, to cover up the problems, and it's not possible. I'd like to invite Mr. Home Secretary to be more sensitive about these matters and to work on a more flexible approach by security forces to our citizens who want to make their voices heard. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0067par0070	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Against Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici. Here you go, Mr. Rider.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0068par0076	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the group proposal of the National Movement Party. I salute your high council. Yes, cotton added value, exports, the population he employs, are the raw materials of the country's locomotive sector, textiles and confection industry. Textiles are used in oil production, in biodiesel production from gunpowder and film material, as well as in about 50 different kinds of industrial products, and also as an important input in livestock as high-end animal food. The cotton plant is also a strategic agricultural product because it has so much use. In cotton, which is so important to our economy, our country has come to the point of losing its position in the world's cotton production and trade. We're one of the countries in the world that has ecologically lucky geography for cotton farming. Because of the wrong policies applied, cotton agriculture has been brought to an end. The most important problems the cotton farmer has to deal with are the higher production costs. Although cotton efficiency is above the world average in Turkey, input prices are an important cost factor for the producer of tax rates for agricultural goods and services. Dear friends, as a cotton farmer, I refer to you as a farmer, and I served in agricultural sales companies -- about three years or so -- as a cotton farmer. But, unfortunately, at the point of end of cotton, the forces, with the wrong use of troops, with the look of the troops as if it were a power farm, have finished, unfortunately. Today, there is a huge silk factory, an oil factory, a bait factory, even a plant worth seeing in the weaving and thread industry of Turkey, but for every power, I say it. Because I worked there, I personally saw the practices -- not every power, self-obsessed, under-employees, or in-depth economic possibilities. So, in the first place, the wrong-managed units in Turkey have reached the end of the process. In contrast, at 2000, we were paid $1,150 for the logistical cotton. Today, 12 years later, because of the interests of these troops, the cotton manufacturer, the white gold producer, even though the inputs are 100 times higher, has been reduced to $750, or even to what we refer to as $980, or even a speck. So the farmer, the cotton manufacturer, is in the middle. Of course, it's good to appreciate it here. We appreciate that you've been in power for 12 years, from 2002 to today, and you've finished the cotton manufacturer. Congratulations again, shame on you! Is this how you're going to look at this country? Now, if we look at the data of the Agriculture Rooms, the average cost in 2011 is around $1.65 per kilogram, while the average price of the sale is 1.2 lira per kilogram in the same year. The support given by AKP governments for this cost and sale price is only 37 cents per kilogram. The cotton farmer, who has suffered in the face of this situation, is quickly moving away from the cotton crop and is trying to get his alimony out of different products. As a matter of fact, during the 2012-2013 season, most of the cotton plantations were shifted to corn and wheat crops in Çukurova, Harran, Aegean. If the wrong policies in cotton farming continue, the crop fields will gradually decline, depending on which the product supply fluctuations will be inevitable. The cost of reducing cottonfields is also a customs tax exemption from cotton due to the Customs Union Agreement with the European Union, as well as the effects, such as price and given support. Due to customs exemption, domestic cotton prices are directly affected by world prices and our cotton farmer is left unprotected against world prices fluctuations. The textile sector, which heads the field of cotton, is 26 per cent of foreign trade, has once again emerged from the obligation to rethink cotton agriculture and its planting with sustainable policies. I'd like to share some data with you to explain where cotton agriculture is coming from as a result of the AKP government's implementations. With 1.4 million tonnes of cotton consumption, Turkey was ranked fourth in the world, making it the second country to import and unsupported consumption. In 2002, 496 million dollars of cotton were imported, while in the first nine months of 2011, unfortunately 1 billion 501 million dollars of cotton were imported. According to the Farmer's Recording System data, the number of cotton manufacturers declined from 113,500 in 2003 to 77,800 in 2011. As a result of wrong agricultural policies in the AKP's ruling period, cotton crops were reduced by 35 per cent between 2002 and 2011. In 2005, 32 cents were awarded to 1 kilogram of cotton with a certified seed difference and 42 cents for support for cotton in 2009, 2010 and 2011. It has been in place as 42 cents since 2009. Between 2002-2011, the low price of cotton was reflected in the manufacturer's purchasing power; at the same time, the cotton manufacturer's purchasing power was 70 per cent in mazotta and 80 per cent in fertilizer. In the last six years, only 33% has been reduced to diesel support paid for cotton production. I salute your high council again. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0069par0090	Thank you, Mr. Rider. Against Adana MP Mehmet Şükrü Erdinç. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Erdinç.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0070par0094	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group's proposal to set up a research commission on the problems and proposals of the solutions of the cotton manufacturer in Çukurova, the National Movement Party Group. I hereby salute your high council. At the beginning of my words, I'd like to refer to the words of my predecessor, here, about the CUPOBIRLIK. He also worked in CUKOBIRLIK, and he knows very well how to do this, how to do this, how to do this, how to do this, how to do this, and by whom he was plundered by both the Adanans and the Turkish people. Of course, I'm not going to express the satisfaction of cotton producers, farmers, citizens who work in cotton farming. Because this issue was made clear in the June 12, 2012 elections with 50% of our citizens' support for the EC PARTY. Çukurova is one of the most important cities in our region of agriculture, Adana. In our Adana, we have three products per year. Of course, cotton is one of the most important values of our Adana. Because, you remember, even in Turkish movies, it's always been a subject. Our Adana was always thought of by cotton. Of course, since the beginning of the 2000s, there have been significant declines in cotton farming in Adana. But these reductions have become prone to increase since 2007. Of course, one of the most important factors in this trend is that cotton agriculture has been given prim support, especially under the difference payments, and there have been significant increases in the production of the agricultural basin model since 2010. Of course, I can't help but mention the Adana data at the plant production point. In 2007, some 350 tonnes of cotton were produced in Adana, while the cotton was planted in Adana. In 2002, the difference in Adana was 14.7 million Turkish dollars, with the amount of bonus payments to cotton, sunflowers and other products. Dear lawmakers, we are open to any proposal in favour of our citizens, in favour of our country, but you know this is a plan and a program. When you bring advice here, when you talk about it, we want to hear your suggestions from this platform, not just from criticism. We'd like to hear about your projects on Adana, and we'd like to do your projects on Adana together, but I'm afraid you don't speak of them from this stand, you only criticize them from this stand. Sometimes when you do criticism from here, you do things that aren't right. Our speaker who just spoke on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group here was the white gold of Turkey, you made black gold of it. He took a cotton out of it and showed it to our citizens here, but it's clear that I took a piece of this cotton, and they brought the black cotton with it. I mean, I don't think it's appropriate for the deputy who's talking here.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0071par0100	Mr. Şükrü, as Adana MP, are you opposed to this motion or not? Say it.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0070par0101	Now, I've said it, you're listening.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0072par0102	We're listening, but nothing.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0071par0103	Of course we're listening.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0070par0104	Look, dear friends, when I come out here, not to your suggestions, you will present your suggestions on the stand.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0071par0105	Tell me if the cotton manufacturers have problems or not.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0070par0106	Look, what are we doing in Adana? I'll tell you what we do in the field of agriculture about Adana. Now, there's a model of the Farm Basins, which our Ministry of Agriculture applied for the first time in 2010. With this model of agricultural basins, the production of cotton has significantly increased in our Adana, and today it has increased to around 350,000 tonnes. In addition, we are working to develop modern greenhousery in our Adana, especially with the work done by the AK PARTI MPs, Adana AK PARTI MPs, in the form of a tunnel in the area of agriculture under cover, and that this does not provide the necessary support for Adana.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0073par0108	How much is a tomato in a greenhouse?
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0070par0109	In addition, to further increase the growing, growing agricultural potential of our Adana...
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0073par0110	You don't know how much tomatoes cost in a greenhouse.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0070par0111	We've been working to establish an agricultural-based speciality organised industrial zone. For the past three years, there has been a 63 per cent increase in the production of our Adana agricultural products. Until 2023, we aim to increase it very seriously. In this framework, we have an international port project based on agriculture and animalism in Adana and Karataş district, so that Adana could benefit easier, less cost-effectively when selling agricultural products to foreign markets. In this framework, we're working with the Agricultural County Directorate, our Transport City Directorate. Dear MPs, we love Adana. There's a program here, and we're running our work within this program. Here, we're about to discuss the Capital Market Law. It's one of the most urgent laws Turkey has waited 20 years for. Hopefully, I'm here in the hope that this will come out today. Before I put an end to my words, in the group proposal for the BDP Group here -- which I received from the arrests -- you imitate the Deputy Director of the BDP Group, the U.S.A.P., and you serve there as a servant. We're not servants to anyone. These citizens know who's serving whom. He says we are the servants of our nation, that we will vote against the MHP Group's proposal, and I pay respects.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0074par0117	Thank you, Mr. Erdinç.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0075par0118	Mr. President, I have a brief request for my position. Here you go, Mr. Vural. Sir, the speaker has stated that the National Movement Party has no suggestions for resolving a parliamentary research proposal on the problems of cotton production and solutions. As the National Party of Action, we've already submitted our motions in all our work, in any law. These motions are all about solving something. So that's what our motions mean. And they probably didn't read this motion either, because it also has statements about marketing problems, about reducing the cost of input, and about the marketing of cotton production, about the development of administrative and financial structures of the ANTBIRK. The purpose of this congressional investigation is to identify and resolve their problems. That's the point of this meeting. Hopefully -- if they say so -- they'll probably say yes to that suggestion. So by identifying these problems, I think they'll use their will to find solutions. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0076par0125	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0077par0128	Mr. President, we want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit02spe0076par0129	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Gök, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Güven, Mr. Illum, Mr. Kuğoglu, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Öner, Mr. Öğelioğlu, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Ekinci, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Ağbaba. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] We don't have enough meetings, I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2012-11-28sit03spe0076par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 30th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The roll call before the nationalist movement group's proposal was voted was not enough. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Members of parliament, since the second roll call did not find enough meetings, the decision was made Thursday (November 29th 2012) to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 14 p.m., according to the decision made on Thursday (November 29, 2012). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
