tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0001par0001	I'm opening the 111th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Mehmet Mush, who wants to talk about the anniversary of Necip Fazil Azcurek's death. Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, I've been promised off the agenda today because of the 29th anniversary of the death of one of the rare inventors of the Islamic geography. I salute your high council. Master Necip Fazil Shortfurek has shown his intellectualism to the people of the 20th century and has also set an example for generations after this century, thanks to the work and the horizon that intellectualism has been given to the people of the 20th century by the so-called sultans and the conquests. Master Necip Fazil is not only a man of poetry, but a man of art and action, who has worked in all the fields of literature. Since Tanzimat, he has entered the process of Westernization, from which he has been separated from his own civilization, from which he has been filled, and has been stood against a nation that has made its spiritual and spiritual and spiritual elements the open target of the materialistic attacks of the West and imperialism, the crowds, crying out, "Stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, a world is coming down from our dark dome." Master Necip Fadil has given those who understand and pursue him a vision of a life worth living. It shows that the enlightenment of the society had passed through the enlightenment of the individual before, making it necessary for what it called "chille" and in its lectures and in its works. At the same time, the Master established a system of drinking with the works of the Great Eastern Magazines and the Ideolocian Anvil. Master Necip Fazil described the youth of this ancient civilization as a system of eternal and branch ephemerals, Vecdine, dialectics, aesthetics, aesthetics, wisdom, understanding, youth, and called them: ▪ Young man! From now on, what I expect from you Follow your spiritual father's coffin It's about the size of the Anatolian continent that you're making the case. This great genius, who recently lit the horizon of youth with a sun, has never stopped fighting the love and enthusiasm of his faith, not a moment behind his action. This genius has been subjected to many punishments for his works and speeches to speak and defend the truth without twisting and twisting. He spent most of his life in prison wards and courtroom corridors. Despite all this negativity, he has never been intimidated or intimidated in his struggle for ideas. The tree that does not care about buds is wood. With this attitude and posture, the master is standing before us as the greatest example of determination and idealism of the last period. The master also expressed his determination and idealism in the following verses: Let the earth be ashamed if it doesn't run out! Shame on the spear that doesn't reach the target! Hey, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you run! Shame on the mare who gives birth if you crack! If it stays with the master, this orphanry, Shame on the apprentice who doesn't keep him! Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have taken the time and place as a trust on their own shoulders, and have seen and disclosed in their time of play against the nation. It has been the screaming tongue and the writing hand of this holy nation. Master Necip Fazil is one of the leaders of the Turkish thinking world with his works. It's the master's mark and permanence that keeps his soul and opinion above matter at all times. Before I end my talk, I salute Master Necip Fazil with his holy struggle, and end my words with the words of the master: The mother's womb, that's our ward! Light in your darkness, rebirth! I hear voices; act and struggle! You're a giant, it's heavy, it's giant! Stand up, stand up, and be happy. My Mehmed, rejoice, the beginnings are high! Whether we die or go home! Don't think this wheel stays on the bump! Ours is tomorrow, and ours is the morning. The sun is up, the day is down, the midwife is ours. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all, and wish you good work.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0003par0040	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır (Currently) who asked for a comment on the Fourth Regular Assembly of the World Uygur Turks.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0004par0043	Mr. President, on behalf of myself, the Uygur Turks, in exile, in the name of the innocent Uygur Turks, who are oppressed in their own country, and on behalf of their President Rabiya Kadir, I salute you. Dear MPs, from May 14th to May 2012, the 4th World Uygur Turks Congress was held in Tokyo, Japan. The Uygur Turks are trying to start the mesalam, the captivity, the congressional processes, allowing them to live on their existence, their identity, their language, their claim to maintain sovereignty. To do so, they need help from almost every country, but they need the protection of Turkey before anyone and every country. Unfortunately, our country did not host the 4th convention. In my opinion, the shame of it will remain on our shoulders as a heavy burden for all of us. The Japanese Parliament has hosted a large number of Japanese MPs in the Japanese Parliament, Mr. Haluk Ahmet Silver of the Republican People's Party, and Mr. Malik Ecder Özdemir. On behalf of the National Movement Party, Mr. President, on behalf of our group, I attended this congress. We heard the cries of a people, of a nation. In the land where they were born, in the land where they lived, they lived for many, many years as sovereign states, where they built states, the Uygur Turks now live as prisoners. They live in East Turkistan, where these human rights violations are so intense in front of the world that they lack freedom, lack culture, lack faith. East Turkistan, as you know, is our ancestral home. East Turkistan is not only interested in the Uygur Turks. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, I promise the court. The AKP government, which claims to be a major player, is not even aware of the Uygur geography, which claims to be global power. Uygur's geography is a huge land in the middle of China, India, Russia, about 1,850,000 square miles [1,850,000 km] wide. Believe that the global wars of the 21st century will be formed around this land. It's irrational that we can stay here, but unfortunately, the Justice and Development Party couldn't even send a member of the Justice and Development Party, a member of the government, to this important convention of the Uygur Turks, as a representative of this political meeting. It's a sad event. It is their problem that the Republic of China has caused this issue to become a problem, but we should not be able to block our ears in the suffering of our brothers and sisters in the 21st century, who are our relatives and who live in intense violation of human rights. First of all, this is a violation of Turkey's injury. Dear Group Vice President Rabiya Kadir was elected Chairman of the Uygur Turks for the third time in this congress, but unfortunately your government, Rabiya Kadir, does not bring Rabiya Kadir to Turkey. The Japanese Parliament accepts him as a political identity, the Chinese government gives a note to Japan, yet rejects him, but Turkey, unfortunately, calls Rabiya Kadiri a dedicated human being, crying and crying.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0005par0050	Does America sting?
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0004par0051	He lives in America.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0006par0052	It's because America wants it to be.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0004par0053	He lives in America. Where will he live, who will he take refuge with? We've had enough of this shame. Dear government, dear ruling party group, these are our descendants and human rights violations in the 21st century, we... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is impossible to accept that the government at the point of defending the rights of the people around us ignores our own kin. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0007par0060	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Minister of Culture and Tourism Ertugrul Günay will respond to non-responsive talks. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0008par0063	Mr. President, my dear friends, two of our friends have expressed two important issues off the agenda here. I'll try to give them a brief approach to our government in time. First, I'd like to thank Mr. Shandir and some of our friends for attending the Uygur Turks Congress in Tokyo. Of course, it is our duty in this day and age to take care of the problems of our own kin and all of humanity, to take care of the human rights issue, but I think it would be better if Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, who I've always cared so highly about, didn't ignore his own efforts here, while other efforts would be more useful to all of us, and it would be more useful to our country.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0009par0065	We'd better be aware of your efforts.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0008par0066	Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister have visited the Uygur District recently, and I believe this is the first time in our history. Previously on President and...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0009par0067	Mr. State Gardener's been there before.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0008par0068	Mr. Gardenie, I'm guessing as Prime Minister and President...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0010par0069	He didn't go to the Uygur district, he stayed on the Great Wall of China.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0008par0070	First visits as Prime Minister and President have not been made at this level before. And it is not possible for you to imagine how happy a Turkish Prime Minister, Mr. Rabiya Kadir, who spoke for the Uygur Turks during a meeting attended by Mr. Shandır (Mr. Shandir) in Tokyo, made the Uygurs happy because he set foot on our land. All of the Uygur Turks were happy as they were when you stroked the head of an orphan boy from seven to seventy. A sun appeared upon the people of Uygur. In his words, at this moment, in a way, Mr Rabiya Kadir, in a manner of speaking, expressed his appreciation directly.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0011par0071	I expressed my regrets, Minister.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0012par0072	It's not enough, Mr. Secretary, it's not enough.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0008par0073	All over the world, as I've just told you, we're very interested in human rights issues of all people, but let's not have any crisis. We're trying to be responsible in the interest of government administrators. China is one of the great states in the world where we cooperate in various fields. We are not concerned about China's internal affairs, and we are not trying to cause trouble between the Uygur Turks and China; we are trying to build a bridge of peace, friendship, integration, brotherhood. For the first time this year, a culture community from the Uygur Region came directly, representing the Uygur Turks -- the first time in our history, such representation and opportunity were not allowed before. You know, the world is being rebuilt in the 21st century, which is the conflicting world of the 20th century, the fighting world of the 20th century, instead of the world of communism-capitalism, left-right, which is now divided into the 20th century, we are now trying to build a new world on the basis of human rights in the east and west, and as we are affected by it, China is also affected. It's the first time a culture community from the Chinese Sincan region has come to our country, and right after that, I was on the delegation with the Prime Minister, and we saw a very serious spirit, and there's a great love in the community. But we, the Uygur Turks, have our attention so that there will be no retaliation and no problems between us.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0013par0077	Why are you interfering with Syrian internal affairs, Mr. Secretary? Why are you interfering with the internal affairs of Iraq? They're closer neighbors.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0008par0078	But let's not rule out the fact that the Uygur Turks are getting better. We're taking care of it. Thank you very much for our friends, our friends who went here. But I would like to say once again that we've been very closely monitoring the issue and that the first visit of the Prime Minister and President-level Sincan Region has been made. Mehmet Mush, my brother, also presented an example of virtuosity today by quoting his poems well on the occasion of the anniversary of the great poet Necip Fazil. Necip Fazil, for example, is one of the dramatic examples of how the 20th century is a conflicting century. Today, perhaps in the 21st century -- Necip Fazil and Nazim Hikmet could have met on certain platforms as the fiery oratories and great poets of various meetings, but at that time it was a time when people were at odds with each other, a time when communities were breaking up within themselves. Both societies and humans have paid their price. Today, Necip Fazil, considered an epic by a literary author from another school, considered an epic verse by Yasar Nabi, paid very serious prices in Turkey for a period of time. Now, our city of Aldındağ has turned Ulucan prison into a museum. There, I see, there, from Hüseyin Cait Yalçın, who was nine years old, Hüseyin Cahit Yalçın, who was imprisoned there, there was no one holding the good bad hand that didn't pass by. It's been our society for a while. Now we're trying to put it behind us, to make things right. Today, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, such as Necip Fadil, Nazim Hikmet, Fazil Hüsnu, and Sezai Karakoc, is trying to adopt all of them because they have revealed the masterpieces of our language, our culture, our literature, and all of them beautiful works to the public's knowledge and appreciation. I think that's what we need to get to. I mean, we should be careful to say new things, say more peace language, more brotherly language, more friendship language. Our friend, Necip Fazil, quotes very well, and I, if you'll excuse me... he is, of course, a preacher, an ideological poet. The battle for the Great East directly is a flag of his great struggle to build an echo, but he is also an Istanbul poet, as well as all those aspects of it. I give the Istanbul poets a place in my heart, in my brain, in my memory because Istanbul is really one of our exceptional cities and as a former Istanbul MP, and on May 29th, we will relive that happy anniversary of Istanbul being the door to our culture again. They melted my soul and froze it in the mold, They put him in the ground as Istanbul. Something that's smoky inside me: air, color, taste, climate, That's my time, my past-of-the-world sweetheart. The flower is gilded with gold, and the water is scaly, The moon and the sun are two Istanbulians of old. And the sea and the earth; and in him alone is the waste. And she has the dreams she has, and she has the words. Time is a rhino on seven hills. The seven colors, the numerous appearance of the seven voices. Job is an orphan, and Kadiköy is adornment, and he is of fashion. He's in charge of the wind-flying skirts on the island. Every dawn is in the forts the arrows come out of the air, Still screams come from Topkapi Palace. No land like Ana, no land like Istanbul, Those who cry are blessed, let alone those who laugh. He's a great poet who wrote his poem. Thankfully, I remember those who have served our country, our language, our culture, and who have worked hard and suffered to make the Turkish world beautiful from here to Uygur. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0014par0101	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Tekirdağ MP Tekirdağ Emre Bridgelı, who wants to talk about the environmental problems of Tekirdağ.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0015par0105	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs regarding an environmental problem in Tekirdağ Province. I hereby salute the entire General Assembly. Members of parliament, Tekirdağ is an important industrial and agricultural city for Turkey. Again, it is among the growing populations and cities that will be the capital cities. Çorı is also the largest district in Tekirdağ Province, and unfortunately the country's agenda is coming to the bottom of the city with a waste storage facility that includes dangerous waste. Dear lawmakers, there is a law issued in 2005 during the AKP's ruling period, called the Earth Protection Act. The 13th article of this Law has organised that agricultural land can only be used for agricultural purposes, but the article has added a number of exceptions to its text as an exception to the ability to produce renewable energy on agricultural land. That's our legal code. Now, Congressman, how does our story begin? A company is applying to the EPDK (EPDK) to benefit from this exception and is licensed to produce electricity from garbage gas at some point in the middle of the first-class farmland, about 1.5km from the city centre of Çorı, where about 250,000 people live. The license he wants for the firm will be issued immediately. The goal is, be careful, to generate electricity from the waste gas, which is to exploit that particular substance. Later, the operation of this license, the license to produce electricity -- with the superior efforts of some officials -- suddenly turns into a facility where all of Turkey's largest dangerous wastes will be stored and buried, with 800,000 tons of capacity per year. It's more interesting than that. At first, the people of Chorus, scientists, environmental organizations, their research and reports have shown that they are against this dangerous waste plant on every platform, and they say there is a difference between this license and activity. Now, I'm going to tell you some of the activities in the CED document that was issued by the Ministry for the production of electricity: The operating areas of the electricity-producing facility: the cleaning of 60,000 dangerous barrels a year, the resupply of herbal waste oils, the burial of medical waste, the burial of battery waste and battery waste, the recycling of any kind of tire waste that completes its life. Despite the fact that none of these activities have anything to do with producing electricity, all of these activities are provided by the ministry with a certificate that is appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the final chapter of the incident is even worse. The firm applied for a permit at the Corridor City Hall. The Mexican City, as I have just told you, has rightly denied this request; it opposes the poisoning of its people, citizens. But you know what happens next? A ministry was established, kidnapped from parliament, with the KHK, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization. This ministry has been given many powers with the KHK again. One is the authority for municipalities to make decisions by replacing local governments. This ministry gave and approved the permit for all of these transactions on February 17, 2012, at a point when the public, citizens, and local government opposed, without asking anyone, without asking. Now, this is the final situation. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has decided to turn an area within a mile of the city, right in the middle of first-class farmland, into Turkey's largest waste storage and burial site without law. I've made numerous attempts on this subject, I've submitted motions to ministers, I've received round answers. But once again, from here to the Ministry, this is not the right way, this road must be returned as soon as possible. Ministerial officials cannot block their ears to the ground, to the people, to the municipalities; I say they cannot darken the future of the people of Thrace and the people of Tekirdağ.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0016par0115	Thank you. Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu will answer off the agenda on behalf of the government. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0017par0119	Mr. President, very dear MPs, I salute you all, sir. For starters, today is a truly blessed day. Congratulations to you and your nation, Regaip Kandili. I hope that these good times will bring our country's unity, unity, and brotherhood to an end. In particular, I, Tekirdağ MP, have been promised to answer some of the issues explained here by Mr. Emre Bridgelı. At the same time, I thank him for giving him the opportunity to express some investments related to Tekirdağ. Now, sir, the energy production plant that Mr. Emre Bridgel was talking about, rather than waste, is actually a facility to produce energy from the garbage. I've got my memos, and I'm going to look at them, and I'm going to talk to Mr. Secretary, but you have to understand that there's a piece of garbage coming out; toxic, harmful waste coming out; they need to be disposed of, Congressman. Now, look, no one wants to have their garbage dumped anywhere, and as you know, there's no place to dump this garbage, so we've already made a law change here, and you know that we've even made a law that allows these garbage dumps to be poured into old mines and mines in the woods that we call waste. So these solid wastes need to be disposed of. Basically, as it's known, unfortunately, this Ergene basin, Tekirdağ and Edirne, is in very bad shape, you know. No city has ever built a wastewater treatment plant there. As it is known, building wastewater treatment facilities, solid waste disposal facilities is the main duty of the municipalities, but as you know, Ergene is contaminated, solid waste, garbage is being dumped here and there. So we really need to solve this by hand, and make Tekirdağ, Edirne, and the Centipede really like flowers. You know, about the Ergene basin, our Prime Minister has instructed us to clean this basin completely. So we've prepared an action plan. Actually, it's not my Ministry's job, but it's really because I saw the terrible situation there. Also, since the river basins are my doctoral thesis, my professor's thesis, let's at least prepare a model basin protection plan for the first time here in Turkey. You know, in this action plan, we've announced the action plan, and as you'll remember, not just wastewater treatment facilities, but solid waste disposal facilities, wooding, erosion control, dams, control of industrial wastewaters, and even the education of farmers in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalry and other types of fertilizer use, such as control, will be implemented for the first time in Turkey, so all of it will be taken over an entire basin. Look, what was the first one? Let's clean the creek beds in Ergene. We've planned a plan, our first action plan. There are twenty action plans, and I'm going to say a few, and it's a big investment of about $3 billion. We're all going to do this together, but unfortunately, I'm also asking you -- even though the mayors have their own duties, they're not taking this seriously enough. For one thing, about the river reforms, see, we have finished rehabilitating the 34km of the Ergene River, and the 17km of the Hayrabolu Creek. So, why are we reforming? Other than waste water, all the garbage, even the toxic, harmful waste from those factories, we need to check them out. First, we'll reform the stream. As a matter of fact, there are 28 creek corrections in the action plan, we've finished five of them, we've tendered eight of them, we're doing a project of 15 adjectives at the construction stage, so that when these projects are completed, 210km of beds will be rehabilitated. We're going to build two concrete bridges, two footbridges, four vents, and 1.150 meters of pere plating. With the rest of the projects, 180 kilometers of rehab, 25 concrete bridges... look, even the concrete bridges we took over as the Ministry.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0018par0126	You must block the underground waters, Minister.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0017par0127	I'll come to that, too, if you'll excuse me. 1 footway, 10 vents, 8,000 meters of concrete wall, 2,600 meters of trapez canal production, and in this way, we will protect 91 settlements of the city from floods of 50,000 hectares of farmland. For one thing, it's very important, only the first action plan of river reforms costs us $40 million. The second plan of action: as you know, I've just stated, my deputies, is the primary duty of all municipalities to build wastewater treatment facilities, to collect sewage, to clean up sewage, to build wastewater, to do so according to the population of all municipalities, and even to the penal code when they don't do so according to the population. Of course, since this wasn't done, we've identified... 54 municipalities, none of which have proper wastewater treatment facilities, except one. 13 of them have a population of over 10,000. I've ordered 12 of these municipalities to be built by the State Waterworks General Directorate of Waste Water treatment facilities. What about the rest of the 41 municipalities, which were smaller than 10,000, were built earlier when I was Minister of Environment and Forestry, by supporting the Ministry of Environment and Forestry, and we included the 38 remaining municipalities' sewage and wastewater treatment facilities in SDUAP, and we will soon finish them. I mean, look, we need to take care of Ergene, Mr. Deputy, with Tekirdağ. One other thing...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0019par0132	Domestic waste is not a problem, Mr. Secretary, industrial waste...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0017par0133	I'm on my way to the industry drop. Wait a minute, that's our third plan of action. Now there, unfortunately, some factories have been built on the side of the road in the past. Yeah, some of them are in the organized industrial zone, but the others aren't in the organized industrial zone, they're in a mess. For one thing, did we take out the Law on Reformed Industry with the zeal of you, all of our deputies, so that we could reform them? At the moment, the work on all of this, our Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, our Ministry, other ministries, governors, has been largely resolved by the industry's cooperation. Right now, Ergene 3 has become a member of the Recovery Organised Industry District. Ergene 1, Ergene 2, Muratlı and Veliköy Reformed Industry District has been neared the end of its work. In fact, yesterday, I, the Undersecretary of Science, Industry and Technology, instructed this to be accelerated even further. What about this one? Some of our industrialists, of course, purify, some don't. First of all, they're out of time. They're definitely starting to write tickets. We also offered them, we said, "It would be two ways to build a purifier facility; either you can discharge the Ergene River, the high standards, color, the need for chemical oxygen, like the BOI, all of it...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0020par0136	Marmara will be turned into a septic tank, so don't pour it on Marmara, just a little bit...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0017par0137	Excuse me, I'm an expert on this matter. Normally, this is extremely difficult to run by further decontamination, so you can give it to the Ergene River, where else? The second way, by purging again, by purifying biodegradating, is only possible for the solution to the color problem. Here, it became clear that it would be much more appropriate to discharge Marmara (Marmara), and the work is going on. I mean, we're moving fast. In fact, we've had three meetings with the industrialists about it -- if you remember -- we've invited you. We invite all our MPs. If you people have any comments or advice on the matter, we are especially looking forward to it. Our fifth plan of action: we've published a general for the use of less water in industry and less pollutant raw materials on this subject on 14 December 2011, and the industry has been trained in this subject. Let me also point out that the industrialist will no longer be able to use the water from the ground as he wishes. There was also a clock-hanging exercise and legislation on that subject. In the sixth plan of action, we said: let's not just take as waste water, as solid waste. We're all checking the basin. To fight the wooding and erosion in the teenager's basin: look, we've now split it in two: the adolescent right coast, the left coast. The work on the left coast is complete. Look, there were 1,35,946 hectares of wooding, fighting erosion, reforming. I'm also telling you the situation in the action plan for 2011: last year -- this year only continues -- in Ergene, 465 hectares, of course, and artificial wooding, normally 867 hectares, erosion and rehab 5.885 hectares -- special deforestation 1,770 hectares, plant production of 2 million, roadside trees there, 65 kms. So in 2012, at the end of April: Treeworking 80 hectares -- this year -- rehab 471 hectares, private wooding 289 hectares, roadside wooding 100km, plant production of 3 million 950,000. It was produced in Keşan, Demirköy and Lüleburgaz. We also planted 23 schools under the scope of schools. 38 temples and cemetery studies were conducted. Now there's industry, there's people living there. After all, are we going to take their waste through the Bosphorus and move it somewhere else? In the end, we need to use the proper techniques for this, but despite the fact that it also belongs to municipalities according to Environmental Law 2872 and City Law 5393, the municipalities have been left behind.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0021par0147	These are all outside the city's limits, Mr. Secretary, under the jurisdiction of the state's private administration. You've been briefed.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0017par0148	Excuse me for a minute. Look, we didn't just form a city, but eight troops for this purpose. I gave these troops all kinds of financial support, project support when I myself was Minister of Environment and Forestry. Two of them have been put into operation to establish and operate a solid waste storage facility for the Centipede Local Governments Consolidated Waste and Business Association and Tekirdağ County Environmental Services Association. For others, we continue to provide all kinds of support, but it is evident that the municipalities, the troops, are not doing enough to carry out their duties. Look, it's all the city's job. So where are the solid wastes, the garbage, the toxic waste from the factories going to go? These will be collected regularly, now they have disposal facilities... Look, wherever you go in the world, I've been to Munich, Munich, right next to Munich, there's a magnificent solid waste disposal facility. Here we set up at Mamak, in Ankara, the garbage was a big problem, there's a great disposal facility, we even did the wooding. Other than that, agricultural pollution is controlled. See, it's agricultural.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0022par0153	Sir, they're off-limits, you're talking about the wrong place, the sample is wrong.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0017par0154	Look, what you're saying is that only toxic, harmful waste. It's dirty. Look, what did we do about it? 69 meetings were held in the Ergene basin alone, where 1,842 farmers attended training and eventually 54 meetings were held for pesticide practices, 1,421 farmers attended training. There were 207 meetings on soil testing and fertilizer, 8.919 farmers attended training. 38 meetings were held for nitrate applications, 820 farmers attended training. So, here's the first time that 238 plant protection vendors and 361 fertilizer vendors have been inspected in accordance with the annual schedules. Do you know what happened after all, after these inspections? The use of agricultural warfare that contaminated the Ergene River was reduced by 50 percent. That's what prevents pollution, we'll think about it completely. I want to talk about the tenth plan of action. And, sir, we're building a constant monitoring system in and around the Ergene River, where we're going to set up for the first time in Turkey. So we've been working to establish a system of monitoring in both Edirne and Ankara, both in the 40s and in Ankara, both in Edirne, and in order to establish land and land, debi, quality control -- at ten points the level of pollution is immediately seen -- in Tekirdağ, and in Ankara, I'll tell you that. The 12th plan of action, the factories have color problems. You see, like the other chemical oxygen needs, he's corrected some parameters, such as the need for biochemical oxygen, but he's got a color problem. We have new color standards for this. Everyone, all the factories have to follow it. The flood early warning system has been set up, act thirteen. The fourteenth act, Congressman, is to check the underground water that you just said. Yes, the preloaded water counters are being installed to control it, and when it is completed, the counter controls will be made, and the use of underground water will be controlled there. Finally, you know, there are dams, ponds, irrigation facilities, river reforms in Thracea, and we're going to do all of that. As a result, you know, we also care about Tekirdağ. I came myself, and we laid down the foundation of the Naipköy Dam, which would provide water for Tekirdağ until 2050, and, if you remember, we received a pledge. We've even committed to the date -- which date, even the time -- when it's going to end. In addition, there was a great shortage of water in Sharköy during the summer months. Mr. Deputy, dear Tekirdağ people, who will root out the water of Sharköy and Gallipoli, who will take care of the need for water...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0023par0163	Tekirdağ people...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0017par0164	You're the deputy, and I appeal to you. ...the opening of the Multilateral Dam was on 11/11/2011. Now the projects are being completed, and there's a Jesus line in the direction of Sharköy, a treatment facility, and a second line in the direction of Gallipoli, a line in the direction of Islam, and construction of the decontamination plant, and let me make this very clear. Other than that, we've signed several facilities related to Tekirdağ. Look, there's a dam, two irrigation facilities, twenty-five -- I'm telling you for Tekirdağ -- we've done river corrections, but so far there's a lot of work going on. The Naipköy Dam continues, and we will complete it. Twenty river reforms -- for Tekirdağ, separate from Ergene. Other than that, I gave you the good news of the last thousand ponds in a thousand days, twenty-one ponds and watering in Tekirdağ, and I will not tell you their names because I do not have time, but I can give them to you. Besides, we've taken significant steps in the wooding. We also set up one for Tekirdağ, Malkara, Çerçeköy, Çerkeköy, and now we will build one for Sharköy and Hayrabolu this year as an automatic meteorological measuring station, and I give him the good news. The other ministries also have significant investments. The Ministry of Health, the Ministry of National Education, has done 1,853 courses, the Ministry of Transport has built 213 kilometers of divided roads, and other than that, TOKI is building 5,028 dwellings, investments that have never been imagined in Tekirdağ and Ergene. In fact, you know, there's been work done on the fast train and the other railroad...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0024par0169	The train's closed, the flights are canceled.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0017par0170	Okay, it'll be done, don't worry. You know, the intersections are organized, the freeway is open. I mean, passing through Tekirdağ was an issue, and I've been in that area a lot. So now, thank God, we're going to Tekirdağ, you know, in divided ways, such as skiing, such as the slip of opium.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0025par0171	Minister, there is no water left in Istranca.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0017par0172	I, with these feelings, salute everyone, all of our MPs. Again, I wish that this blessed night would be a blessing, that our country's unity, unity, brotherhood would be more united. My respects, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0026par0175	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0027par0176	Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief statement. In particular, Mr. Secretary said that all responsibilities belong to the city, which is not accurate information, I'd like to make a statement on that.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0026par0178	I promise you two minutes because of the bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0027par0183	Of course, Mr. Minister, in his speech earlier, I received a promise that all responsibility for the cleansing of Ergene had been implied as if it belonged to the mayors, as if it belonged to the mayors. Indeed, the most important thing that pollutants Ergene is industrial waste, and the share of household waste in pollution on the Ergene River is very low. At the point of inspection of industrial waste, the use of underground water, the discharge of this waste to the Ergene River without decontamination, Mr. Minister, our municipalities have no authority and no say, which is entirely in the Ministry's diplomatic missions, the county administrations. Other than that, at the underground water point on Ergene, you know the river of Ergene. 1997, after 1998, four times the river, three times the river, where the underground water is discharged. So the most important problem is making the inspection right, and the task of doing this inspection is in the departments of the ministry. I also want to say that, apart from the fact that there are some events that are being attributed to municipalities again -- I said in my speech, that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization, founded by the ECK, was authorized to take the place of local governments. On behalf of local governments, he was authorized to decide without listening to any of the practices he found negative or wrong. As I said in my speech, a company licensed to clean up 60,000 dangerous barrels to produce electricity, to bury battery waste, battery waste, to obtain waste from tires, the municipality has rightly opposed it. Now, are the municipalities guilty or is the Ministry guilty? Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0028par0189	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. Mr. Şandir, Mr. Firat, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Sakık, Mr. Agbaba, Mr. Serendağ, you've entered the system, Mr. Halaman, but as it is known, I can't make a promise under Article 59, so don't be offended. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is known that pollution of nature and environment has had a negative effect on the natural development of animals living in the air, land, water, and sea. Water resources and marine pollution, however, result in far more severe and devastating consequences for both human health and life in these waters. The Marmara District is the fastest industrialized region in our country and is most heavily exposed to population pressure. The Marmara Sea faces both domestic waste and land pollutants caused by industrial discharges, as well as a serious pollution problem caused by sea transport. In parallel with this pollution, it is observed that the delicate ecological balance in the Sea of Marmara has been disrupted and the diversity of species has been negatively affected. The measures on this matter remain inadequate, and the size of the problem is growing day by day. Therefore, in order to determine the problems and measures that should be taken by pollution that threaten life and diversity in the Sea of Marmara, we propose that Parliamentary Research be opened under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution. 31.10.2011 [[İstanbul]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] 4) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Adana]] [[Hatay]] [[Gaziantep]] 9) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 15) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Army]] 17) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] The Sea of Marmara, the rapid population growth in its coastal provinces, resulting in rapid urbanization and industrialization, has experienced an intense period of contamination, especially from the early 70s. Marine pollution has rapidly increased in parallel with increasing population pressure, while life and species diversity have rapidly decreased, in the Marmara region, with about a quarter of the country's population and about 60 per cent of the industry. Until the 1975s, the number of fish that were hunted in the Sea of Marmara had been identified as 124, while the number had dropped to under 10 years, depending on the fact that Marmara's contribution in the production of all Turkish water products has declined from 22 per cent to 6 per cent. It shows that the diversity of this species decreases at a very dramatic rate. The main factor that significantly disrupts the delicate ecological balance in the Sea of Marmara is the land pollutants of domestic and industrial waste and pollutants from sea traffic. Despite the fact that our country is part of international contract obligations and adequate regulations to prevent sea pollution, measures taken in our legislation remain inadequate, the problem is increasing. For example, around 1 billion cubic metres of waste water are emerging annually in Istanbul, with a population of 14 million people and the population of a medium-sized country. 75% of these wastewaters are only discharged after pre-decontamination. In other words, 2 million cubic metres of waste water from Istanbul to the Sea of Marmara (Marmara) is released every day by pre-decontamination only. The prepurification is meant to separate large materials and visible floating objects from the waste water. In this regard, predecontamination is insufficient to prevent sea pollution. In order to protect marine life, the number and capacity of advanced biological treatment facilities must be increased. Last year, only 13 per cent of the annual decontamination of annual wastewater in Istanbul, along with the Ataköy advanced biodegradation facility, which was completed and used to clean up 115m cubic cubic metres of waste water annually. This amount can only be seen as insufficient compared to the amount that was discharged into the sea by pre-decontamination. For these reasons, we have reason to believe that it would be appropriate to open a parliamentary investigation of the Sea of Marmara in order to determine the consequences of the pollution caused by land pollutants and sea traffic and the problems caused by this pollution on living marine life and the measures that must be taken by the Supreme Assembly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the effects of the changes made during the Afet and Emergency Response Authority during the AKP Administration and to determine the effects of the new construction results in the Van Earthquake, to determine the consequences and to determine the measures that need to be taken," we propose and propose the opening and opening of the Parliament under the requirements of Articles 104 of our Constitution, 98th and 105th of the Turkish Parliament. Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President Turkey is one of the world's leading countries in terms of the risk of earthquakes. Our country is located above the Alpine earthquake belt. The northern Anatolian Fay Belt is a very active region on this tectonic belt. Turkey is divided into two main fault zones -- the Northern Anatolian Fay Belt and the East Anatolian Fay Belt -- for tectonic features. Earthquakes in Turkey are mostly happening along the Northern Anatolian Earthquake Zone. Since 1924, 24 out of 47 large - scale earthquakes have been seen in this fault belt. The region of the Aegean Region and Lakes is above this generation, with areas that extend throughout northern Asia Minor and Southeast Anatolian fault zones. They're the most risky places as degrees of earthquake. I. It's a fact that more than half of our population lives in these areas, where they're built on degrees of earthquakes. According to the Kandilli Observatory Earthquake Research Institute, our country averages an earthquake between 6 and 6.9 a year. August 17, 1999 was one of the biggest earthquakes we've had in recent years in terms of the destruction and loss of life of the Marmara earthquake. The duties of the three General Directorates of the State of Emergency, including the General Directorate of Turkey, the General Directorate of Civil Defence and the General Directorate of Disaster Affairs and the President of the Prime Ministerate of the State of Emergency have been lifted, and the duties of the three General Directorates of the State have been imposed on a presidency. The purpose and coverage of the Law is one. Article 2. "This law involves the taking of necessary measures to ensure the effective implementation of disaster and civil defence services at the country level, and reducing preparation and harm before the events take place, co-ordinating and implementing policies in these matters among institutions and institutions and institutions that carry out the intervention and improvements in the course of the incident," he said in his joke. It's called. Although more than two years have passed since the foundation of the presidency, the Van earthquake has shown us that there is still no lesson from the past, and that the President of Afet and Emergency Management has yet to complete its mission. The experience of Turkey's Emergency Management Directorate, Civil Defence General Directorate and the General Directorate of Disaster Affairs, which was lifted by the Law, has been destroyed by the memory of these three institutions. In an earthquake, risk management is an important issue. According to our country's awareness that an action plan against earthquakes could occur in other risky areas has been destroyed along with the Van earthquake, and it has been noted by the statements of ministers who went to the earthquake site without such a government action plan, contradicting each other and themselves. For the reasons we have explained above, we propose and propose the establishment of the Parliamentary Research Commission under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to investigate the effects of the changes made during the AKP ruling period and the new construction results in the Van earthquake, to determine the consequences and to determine the measures needed to be taken. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the district of Dedice, Kopeeli Province, some 2,500-3000 tonnes of highly toxic pesticides, BHC and DDT, were abandoned after being banned in Turkey in 1985 to put its use in a warehouse near the factory where it was manufactured. For some 26 years, this toxic waste has been kept in a warehouse where the ceiling flows and leaks from its base to the ground, although its damage to the environment and human health has been known. Although the environmental damage and carcinogen effects of these substances, which have been used under ban by the protection chlorine Alkali Asş, which had previously been banned by international agreements, the warehouse has been known to be located in an area where industrial facilities on the coast are concentrated about 300 metres away, where the settlement is located. This poses a great risk to those who live in the region. The chemicals produced 26 years ago for the production of Lindan were stored as white powder in 50 kilos of plastic bags and metal barrels in four warehouses, located in the 8,120 square metres of property owned by Merkim Industrial Products Inc. The outer surface, base and roof of the warehouses is not suitable for storing such chemicals. Most of the chemicals are stored in old or torn plastic bags, and the rest are scattered at the bottom of the warehouse. The materials inside the warehouse have come in contact with water, caused by leaks from fractures on the roof and the outer surface. The pools of chemicals combined with leaky water are highly likely to mingle with soil, subterranean waters, and the sea. There is also a strong smell caused by chemicals in the warehouse. Following scientists' opinion that BiHCs have very toxic and carcinogenic effects and have significantly damaged the environment, it has been decided that this substance, which has been dangerous for 26 years, will be eliminated as a result of studies with the Ministry of Environment and Forest. In November 2006, protocols were signed between the Ministry of Environment and Forestry, Merkim Ash, the Bigeli Industrial Chamber and the Bigeli Metropolitan Municipality. Studies have launched studies abroad, suggesting that toxic waste would be impossible to dispose of in Turkey. The contract was signed in April 2007 with the German AVG company, which bids best for an international tender in December 2006, and each month after signing a contract, the shipment of 30 to 40 tonnes of toxic waste was decided to be delivered, and in the past three years, only 313,000 tonnes of BiHC was removed from Germany by taking only 313 tonnes of its last shipment on August 2009. During the last period of time, the disposing company AVG's new shipping plan was forwarded to Merkim AŞ, but Merkim Ash did not deliver on grounds of economic distress. The contract signed between the AVG firm and KSO on the issue was terminated in 2007. It's a known fact that the province of Marseilles is struggling with environmental problems that come with rapid industrialization. A serious study of the removal and removal of organic substances, such as these, based on the environmental damage caused by possible natural disasters, has arisen, especially in the province of Sameeli, of BiHC materials mentioned, as well as the Sea of Marmara, as well as its proximity to the settlements. We propose that these dangerous wastes, which are found in Deepne County, be analysed in terms of quantity and quality, be identified with soil layers and levels of contamination in the size of subterranean water basins, review of existing waste methods, environmental and social costs, open up a national inventory for permanent organic pollution (KOK) and all other hazardous wastes, and open the Constitution's 98, TEMMI Interiors and 105 articles, and provide a proposal to be investigated and conducted by regulations. 1) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] 8) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Adıyaman]] 10) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 15) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Manisa]] 17) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Army]] 19) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 22) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Shandır, you have a request.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0029par0325	Thank you very much. Dear President, as the National Movement Party Group, we too remember the anniversary of the march of Master Necip Fazil Shortfurek to Hakk. We pray for the blessings of God, the Most High, to Necip Fazil. We believe that he had a high place in the sight of Allah, because Necip Fazil was a man of law who loved his people and served his people. He is the spiritual architect of the state of the Republic of Turkey. As an ongoing vessel, Necip Fazil, a generation of Turkish-Islam civilizations cost this nation, was a very valuable Turkish elder who contributed to the development of Asym (Assim)'s generation in terms of Turkish-Islam civilization, and I have to say that Necip Fazil, in exchange for his concerns for his nation's concerns, has at the end of his life made politics in the National Movement Party in exchange for the dreams he had hoped for his nation. As executives of the entire National Movement Party, as members, I remember him with mercy and gratitude. Dear President, if you'll excuse me - Mr. Minister is gone - but I have spoken for Turkey on behalf of this Council of Uygur Turks. I've also taken greetings from Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. When Rabiya Kadir gave that interview, believe me, she was crying, so why don't my brothers accept me when they thank the President? While I was leading the Turkish trial in foreign hands, why is Turkey not accepting me as a disadvantaged staff? She was crying. I said it to express my sorrows. Otherwise, of course, it's admirable. I know there'll be more good things to be done, I know some things. That's why I'm celebrating the government. The Uygur Turks, more than anyone, any nation in the world, need the help of Turkey, their love, their support. I've been promised to express it. Attention, Your Honor. Thank you all. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0030par0331	Thank you. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Iranian Islamic Republic's Government, where we are left with the Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, where we are left to discuss the Joint Use of Esendere and Sero Black Border Gates. Mr. Commission and the government are in position. Yesterday's merger was agreed to transfer the bill to its articles. REPUBLICATION OF REPUBLICITY WITH THE REPUBLICITY OF TOURITY COMPLICATION CONSIDENTS TO CONTINUE THE CONTROL OF CONTACT OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE SENDER AND THE SENRO KORA HUDUT DOORS MADDE 1- (1) was approved on March 22, 2010 between the government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Esendere and Sero Kara Border Gates. Ali Özgündüz, İstanbul MP who asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0031par0349	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, first of all, today is Regaip Kandili. I celebrate the Regaip Kandili of Muslims in our country and all over the world who understand Islam correctly, who understands that Islam is a religion of peace and peace, who practice it, who cast hatred, who cast hatred, who did no injustice, who did no injustice. Mr. President, before we get to the point again, Mr. Home Secretary has made a statement about the incident in Uludere, a sad statement. In our understanding, people who die are spoken of with kindness or not at all. I condemn the citizens of the Republic of Turkey and the Home Secretary of Interior, who called 34 people a closet horse and insulted them. (HPP) This style is not appropriate for the Republic of Turkey. It's really sad what they said yesterday. And those people's families will be celebrating candles today, but a minister of the government is insulting people. According to our belief, there is a saying that even the devil withdraws his hand from the dead man. I mean, what can I say? That's how I condemn Mr. Secretary's speech about the people who died, and the irresponsible behavior of a man in the position of responsibility. Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I wish both countries the best of an agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Islamic Republic of Iran on the common use of border doors. You know, Turkish-Iran relations are older than the history of many countries in the region, two friends, brothers, who have had no problems since Kasrishirin for about five hundred years. In fact, two countries have left the Great Seljuk, one country in the past, two brothers. Two jealous, competitive, envious countries from time to time. (x) 7 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 110th Unification Charter, dated 23/05/2012. Turkey and our neighbour Iran had a volume of trade last year, close to $15 billion. It's a $30 billion trade volume that's being targeted. I hope the common use of this border crossing will also contribute positively to the development of our relations, the development of trade. Unfortunately, however, the government's recent wrong policy on the Middle East is located in the region, where Turkey-Iran relations are shrinking. From the beginning, as the Republican People's Party, we were saying that the radar defence system established in Malatya-Kurecik is a project of the United States, and that the US troops are serving, and that it is contrary to the Constitution. The other day, Obama instructed the Secretary of Defense, saying: "Turn this radar defence base over to NATO." So it wasn't part of NATO until today, it was a military base of the United States. According to our constitution, the deployment of foreign soldiers in Turkey is subject only to the permission of Parliament, the supreme delegation, and that is, unfortunately, the government has committed crimes so far. At least -- but the Foreign Minister is not here -- in the name of the government, Mr. Minister, with false information that you have deceived the Turkish nation, sir, this is not the U.S. base, it's NATO base. And I don't know if you're going to apologize to the public for saying, and I don't know if you're going to be able to carry on the political responsibility of this, because it's become clear that, for about a year now, the government has deceived the Turkish nation by lying, unfortunately. Dear friends, there has been a demonstration recently in Iraq, in Basra, against our country, or rather against the AKP government, and slogans have been issued against Mr. Prime Minister. That part was right, but there was also disrespect against our flag and against the glorious Turkish flag. I also condemn that disrespect from here. No one has the right or right to disrespect the glorious flag of the Republic of Turkey. Our government must follow up on this matter. Unfortunately, however, the government of the Republic of Turkey is responsible for this. Why? The reason is: Why are you hiding Tariq Hashimi, who was captured by us by the Iraqi judiciary, and why are you feeding him? In fact, we don't understand why you're feeding it. So what's in Turkey's interest for Tarek Hashimi to be fed in Turkey, sir, by the Prime Minister's bodyguards in the state, the municipality's guesthouse, Basakşehir, and I'll tell you where it is? So we're really curious, if there's a benefit to it, explain it, and we'll understand it, and we'll support it. There, despite Iraq's central government, is an eight-judged delegation by the central government. Look, there's no Shia, there's no circumcision. You're lured there because there's a court hearing about Tarek Hashimi for participating in terrorist activities against the Deputy President of Iraq. There are 19 people in his office who have confessed that we are in Baghdad about terrorist attacks in different parts of the country.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0032par0360	It's all political.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0031par0361	You can't say political. Look, then, while you're harboring Tarik Hashimi here by saying it's political, you're holding people inside with false evidence as members of the terrorist organization. It's a contradiction, isn't it? Is that a thing? What's it to you? I mean, a country's judgment is an internal business. Friends, who know foreign policy, sir, anyone who understands a little politics knows that judicial decisions are strictly domestic. You're interfering, you don't know the Iraqi Central Government. No, what's in it for us? I mean, why are we protecting Tarek Hashimi? Tarek Hashimi, Barzani arm in arm, we're protecting it. Sir, the other day Bekir Bozdağ says that the people we're looking for with the red bulletin are attacking us from northern Iraq and they haven't been extradited for years. Is that a thing? So the country's foreign policy is carried out in the interest of the country. Dear lawmakers, please -- and I'm calling the power group -- question these issues, so it's your duty as a parliamentary officer to oversee the government. Why did our relations with Iraq fail? What are we doing in Syria? Recently there was an explosion in Syria, and more than 40 people died in Damascus; and a hole of six and a half metres was formed. E, terrorist activity. And you, sir, have set up a front with Saudi Arabia and Qatar, saying, "No freedom, no human rights." Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Qatar will lead to freedom? So Saudi Arabia has freedom or democracy? Is there freedom or democracy in Qatar? Why don't you show this attitude in Yemen, and why don't you show it in Bahrain? You're inconsistencies. So Turkey's wrong foreign policy, rather than the government's, which has been called a zero-problem of the AKP government... in fact, since years ago, you've said that the point where you've come is that you've come from a lie, that you've drawn peace in the land, peace in the country, peace in the country. Israel. As you know, the indictment against Israel concerning the Blue Marmara has been made. The Israeli Air Force Commander, the Chief of Intelligence, demanded a life sentence against the Navy Commander, the prosecutor. Now, I'll see you. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, if you invite one of these men over here... you will. Today, Israel is conducting a joint gas search with the Greek Cypriot part of Cyprus, and Israel will deploy 20,000 commandos to southern Cyprus, to the Greek Cypriot part. Where is a new Israel born with a family of 10,000 Israelis working there, working at the plant? It's born in Cyprus. Thanks to what?
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0033par0365	Thanks to who?
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0031par0366	Now, what you're doing is wrong, it's a failure... so there's a beautiful analogy of a diplomat in the past, like Mr. Secretary of Foreign Affairs, who's looking for stars in the sky. He says it's a beautiful analogy. Sir, there's no way we're going to be leaders of the world, we're going to be leaders of the Middle East. U.S.A. gave me this far, brother, I fed you, I raised you, that's it. Go be friends with Syria, give me that image, open the doors, let the people go, without an ID, without a passport, without information, and then do what you have to do. Dear friends, in the interest of the Republic of Turkey, I say that the government should give up its policy. Or let Turkey explain to us what it stands for, so we can support it, and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0034par0370	Thank you, Mr. Original. There's no further demands. No questions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP who asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 2.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0035par0378	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. There is nothing to be sorry for, not for those who killed, not for those who killed, but for those who killed 34 of our citizens who were murdered in Uluderere. I condemn the Minister of the Interior. Dear friends, I'm going to tell you a film. This movie is another movie. As soon as this film is written, as soon as it's withdrawn. In this film, the actor is a toy in the master's hand, and as long as the master writes, the actor will play. This film is AKP's Globek film. This film is a footplay. In this film, we became the sword of the United States, the shield of Israel. You have set up a shameful base for the sphere, and you have put our footworks under our feet. This film is a plot; it is a plot that took place 20 years ago in NATO make-up for the US project. Now, the makeup's gone, the truth's come out, the helmet's gone bald, the plot film's on display. This film is a wind of lies; when we fly to Lisbon, we will have the commander. This film is the wind of lies for those who can't call a cat a cat. This is a film of slander; you have not failed to say to those who oppose the establishment of a missile shield to Malatya, you have slandered jazz and lies, but the truth is, foreigners have already come and settled. After all, Obama confessed. For him, this film is the brotherhood of slander. This film is a comedy; it's a comedy where you're assigned to protect it instead of command duty. This film is a plot against the people of Turkey and the Middle East, a film of conspiracy against the interests of imperialists. This film is a conspiracy against the future and peace of those who cannot say no to their master. It's a conspiracy film that got the undersecretary to sign the Israeli shield. This game is an action; it's an action that suddenly builds a missile shield. It's an action where you secretly place strangers in Malatya. This film is an action film where the trail of horses is followed by dog tracks. Spherical film, lying, lying, slandering, comedy, conspiracy, action, it's not confusing, it's disgusting. If these uglinesses, if these events are in this film, it's the only thing that makes you sick in that movie. An agreement adopted by US officials and journalists as the most important deal of the last 30 years has still not been brought to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and has not been discussed. Even the bilateral agreements with Uganda, with Tanzania, came to Parliament, and the agreement on this missile shield was not brought to parliament, but signed to the undersecretary. A US mortgage has been placed on the will of the House. Apologies for March 1st, and a dietary debt has been paid. We even learned from foreigners that foreign soldiers came to Malatiah, whether you knew or hid them from the people. Are you so ignorant of home, or do you dream of becoming the 53rd state? Dear friends, I've made many motions to ask, many times I've made a motion to investigate, and many times we've said no to the Israeli shield together, but in vain, the AKP has achieved denial, saying that the base is NATO base. But it turned out to be a lie. While the AKP was translating the movie "Spherac," we did not waste our time, but on October 2nd, we went up to the mountains of Globecik, and on March 10th, we went to Malatya with the ten - hearted women's deputies. As we walked into the Israeli shield at 2,300 meters, Turkish soldiers came out, Turkish soldiers cut us off. Strangers inside, Mehmetchiks outside. The AKP, who gave the command of the base against us to the United States, has given the control of the Assembly in Ankara. The AKP, who spoke of national will, chose to act under American command in the matter of the Globek. We asked if there were soldiers; the answer came from a foreign general in Germany. We asked him, "Who is the owner of the principal? " The answer came from Chicago, and Obama said, "We are." We asked for the price of the sphere, how much did you sell it for? The answer came from a journalist, six or seven billion dollars. We've asked for permission, along with our dear friends, the group's deputy president and the MPs, and we have no authority to give permission to enter the General Staff -- if it has no authority -- he said. We wrote to the Ministry of National Defense, we don't have authority, we can't allow it. We asked for permission four times, rejected four times, applied for five times, and when we didn't get an answer, we wrote to our dear friends, valued lawmakers, to the Pentagon, because we knew that you had linked the Globecik to the Pentagon. The President of the United States, dear friends, has upset the Turkish nation. He said in front of all of us that the missile shield in the sphere was not a NATO base, as the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister, and the Minister of National Defence claimed, but that it was a US base, and he accused our officials of lying. The sphere is private, my friends. Whose privacy is the sphere? It is the private of the United States. The sphere is the bedroom of the United States. We want the agreements, and the agreements made with this Globecik are written in the name of Mahrem. The sphere, or U.S.A., has become a bedroom, friends. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, at this point, something has become clear. This agreement is signed by the U.S. Ambassador and the Undersecretary. Along with this agreement, Article 92 of the Constitution is clearly violated. Article 92 of the Constitution states that even if there were one foreign soldier, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey would have to allow it. This is a major crime, and this crime will not go unpunished. The special court may not dare judge you, but I have no doubt that one day the people will judge you. I have full faith that the violation of the sovereignty rights of our land will reveal how it is marketed at round tables. Dear friends, the State Department and the Prime Minister have to be transparent. Why? If you have to, you must share with us. Why can't they say no? Or why can't they come and tell us what they said. Don't be afraid, there's us, there's the Republican People's Party. We protect, we protect our country, we protect you as we did in the past. Dear lawmakers, it is clear at this point that our country must be free of both the movie makers and the US base. It's obvious what to do. The United States must answer to the people and Parliament. Those responsible for this disgrace must resign immediately, regardless of their position or position. They should take their warm, soft seats and go. Thus, at least, they will receive a partial punishment from their conscience. They must apologize to the people and to the House. They should express remorse for the film they're making. The US base in the sphere must be shut down immediately, and foreign soldiers must be sent home. Secret agreements and sales must be declared public and cancelled. The sphere radar base, the American base, the Israeli shield, will remain a hump on the back of this country. The removal of that base is the debt of patriots. Can the filmmakers take it or leave it? No, because it's not the free land that's essential to them, it's the marketable land that's essential to them, and that's the difference between us. For him, the task of removing this base is on our shoulders. Dear friends, you have made the land a home to the United States and a stranger to the nation. We're strangers there. You didn't let us go in there as elected deputies, but one day, we'll be blessed to have that base shut down and that base removed from there. First we'll have the button. You said, "We'll press the button." You said, "We'll press the button." Then they didn't give you the button. Because here, as always, we've had enough of subcontractorship. Dear friends, a radar film may be made in the Globe, but the proud sons of that country will not hesitate to set out without any interest to their patriots. Those who forget the French bullet, the American sack, don't think everybody's like them, and those who don't, they'll come out one day. You'll live long enough, and you'll see. Dear friends, on May 30, we will move from ODTÜ, where the Sinan Cemgils set out. First we'll go to Nurhak, then we'll go to Orbukik. We'll go through what they've been through, but we'll get to where they can't. Once again, we're going to go up the Orbs, we're going to hit the door of the American base. Regardless of the party, I'm inviting all the MPs who can come, all the MPs who are here. Let's all go together, defend our people, fight to leave our children a proud country. Dear friends, I wish this base, Iran, Iraq, Syria, to be shut down as soon as possible. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0036par0408	Thank you. Sinan Oğan, İğdır MP who has asked for the members of the National Movement Party Group on Articles.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0037par0411	Mr. President, the most valuable MPs, now that I think about using this expression, would it be more appropriate to say that the President, the Honourable MPs, is being used freely as a terrorist, and unfortunately, the value of this word in our Turkish has been greatly reduced. Therefore, I'd like to address your guests as the Honorable President, the Honourable MPs. We are meeting with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Iran between the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Esendere and Sero for the Common Use of the Black Border Gates. Honourable MPs, Turkey has only one province with its borders on three countries, and its name is Iğdır. Although Turkey has borders on three countries, Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Iran, the border crossings with Iran do not open on political grounds, although there have been several talks on this subject. Like earlier, before your power, even though sugar beets were produced in Iğdir, you have the same mentality, unfortunately, when lawmakers of other provinces, cities without sugar beets were built into other cities with their ministers' political pressure and sugar beets were built into other cities. The Boralan Border Gate, which should be opened from Iğdır, does not open from Igdir, for example, because of the political pressure of other provinces, because of the political pressure of lawmakers in Van Province. There's another important institution that needs to be opened, there's another organization, which is the organized free zone. Unfortunately, we're getting his hearing, and the organised free industrial zone that needs to be opened in Iğdır is being tried to move to other cities. Dear lawmakers, if you discriminate between cities, if you discriminate between citizens, you don't have to look for separatism elsewhere, you're the separatist. Therefore, come and desist from your discrimination and separatism against this Iğdur. Make necessary attempts to open the Boralan Border Gate. In 2010, you gave the good news. In three months, the Boralan Border Gate will be opened. You said. Two years after 2010, there is still no news of the Boralan Border Gate. In 2010, the establishment of the organised free industrial zone in Iğdır was on the agenda, which is being discussed today in other provinces. If you look at Iğdır....with this mentality - I've expressed it here before....you can't get the MP out of Iğdır....you'll never get anything out of it again. For your sake, for the sake of Iğdur, for the good of this land, I warn you not to discriminate against Iğdur. Open the Boralan Border Gate, which is the right of Iğdır. Support the establishment of the organised free industrial zone in Iğdır, which is the right of Iğdır. The Iğdır people are watching you, watching everything you do. It also follows your discrimination against Iğdır, and therefore we, of course, are on the side of opening border crossings with neighbouring countries. Therefore, we also support this agreement to share the use of Iranian and Esendere and Sero border doors, but the Boralan Border Gate must be opened as soon as possible. Look, there's a border crossing between Nahçivan and Iğdır. Today it is the most backward customs gate in Turkey. You're impounding our people's cars over there because our citizens have three or five litres of gasoline in their truck. However, we know that the same border crossing is in another province, and we know that it is in other provinces; in East Whitebutt, in Vanāda, in Hakkari. Our trucks in Iğdır are going to buy and bring the illegal diesel there, and they ask me, why is this ban against Iğdir, if this smuggling is illegal, and why is this ban not imposed against East Whiteıt, VanEST, Hakkari, and other provinces? Yeah, we're gonna be anti-trafficking. We'll be against smuggling, but if smuggling is illegal in one county, it should be illegal in all provinces. If he's free in other provinces, why is he not allowed in Iğdır? We say, if you're going to close it, if you're going to block it in front of the runaway masoth, stop it in front of all of them.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0038par0419	Your people don't pay tribute, Congressman. Do they pay the tribute?
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0037par0420	They don't pay.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0038par0421	So...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0037par0422	They don't pay political tribute at all. Iğdır doesn't give political tribute to anyone. Iğdırlı just wants his right; he says: "Are we not the children of this land? Are we not taxing this country? Two months later, you victimized our citizens who received the A2 document. You have reduced the bear's transport capacity, or transnational capacity, to 4 ▪. Well, the guy sold out all his stuff, started a company with an A2 shipping license and bought a couple of moving cars. I just sold all my stuff, bought a van, bought a bus. He says, "Did I do this by trusting this state, this AKP? Did I do it wrong?" Yeah, well, he made a mistake by trusting this AKP, because you got up two months later, you got the A2 document back, and you only gave him four times to get out of the country. These citizens, of course, are writing this down, and when the time comes, they're going to ask you the account, just like yesterday in the chest, tomorrow. So again, I want to say that all the provinces of Turkey are equal, all the citizens of Turkey are equal, so don't discriminate between the provinces and citizens of Turkey, you can't. If you do, Iğdırlı will make the distinction between you and the other parties tomorrow, as he did yesterday. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0039par0427	Thank you. There's no further demands. The question-answer process will be done. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0040par0431	Thank you, Mayor. Electricity increased by 19 percent, natural gas increased by 16.6 per cent, additional 3.5+4 in addition to the increase of civil servants. How can you explain that, Mr. Secretary? How will the citizen survive, since the additional increase to the officer is far below the increase in gas and electricity? Will the officer cover the difference with a loan from the bank? Another question: is there any foreign soldiers in Malatya Orbukik? If so, when did the Turkish Grand National Assembly give permission to allow it, would you explain its history? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0041par0435	Thank you. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0042par0437	Thank you, thank you, Mr. President. I too congratulate all Muslims, Turks, Turks, Regaip Kandili. Therefore, there is a martyr's funeral, and there will be a funeral prayer at Kocatepe. I ask for God's mercy on his family. Again, when I said that, Mr. Forest Minister said that everything was fine, that they did a lot of things, the vents, the bridges. As far as he was concerned, we have places to do in those areas, and I wanted to ask him if it would help. Tekir, Pozanti, Feke, Saimbeyli, Hurlbeyli, ovaries, these are usually boroughs in the forest area. This year's weather, climate conditions have gone rough, so the infrastructure, vents, bridges are broken. So the summer days, because they're on a plateau, their population is growing, so the municipalities -- the egg is on the sea side, although the tourism area is considered to be considered -- their infrastructure is very broken, and the climate conditions have broken down. If our Minister helps us out here, we'll be happy to know that when we get there, our Minister of the Forest, he's made us come here, he's transferred here, he's sent money. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0043par0443	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0044par0445	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how many foreign specialists are there in the Undersecretary of Public Security, how many of these staffs have been filled so far? Is it true that some of the foreign experts who work on these staffs work as spies in Syria? How will your government respond to that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0045par0448	Thank you. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0046par0450	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, recently when you went to Tripoli, you said that the deep discharges of Tripoli, at the mayor's office, did not work, and that the previous municipal administration had destroyed them, but I know that it was an affable information, and that there was now a road that had been broken when the roads crossed, and we did the necessary work at the point where they were supposed to be done, but when you left now, deep discharges are still open. You'll see the points still open by this municipality. We're waiting for help at the point where they're being corrected, and you said earlier that you sent money, not to the city of Tripoli, but to the private administration, I believe. They've shorted you on that, and I'd like to correct that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0047par0453	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0048par0455	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, first of all, the officers are being given a raise, the government has a proposal, but, of course, the officers didn't take it. You'll appreciate that in many countries in Europe, salaries are being offered to reduce, even some civil servants' jobs, but there's no such thing in Turkey, so we didn't crush officers in inflation, and believe me, right now, the standards of lives of officers in the past are much better. I know engineers. Look, in 2002, an engineer in the DSI was getting $980 million, so now with the current money, it's $980, but now engineers are getting at least $2,500, even with compensation. Office heads, branch managers, their salaries have changed, they have compensation, so... And let me put it this way...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0049par0457	They're charging $1,400, Mr. Secretary. You give them false information, they get $1,400.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0048par0458	And you mean in compensation?
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0049par0459	As a salary.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0048par0460	There are no engineers on the payroll for $400, sir. I'm talking about engineers.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0049par0461	1,400 lira.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0048par0462	So, as a result, there's no engineer who gets $1,400. I know the salary of the engineers at the DSI. Thus, indeed, the government's offer is quite appropriate. Also, you see, despite the global economic crisis, our government has agreed to reduce wages, let alone reduce wages, as in Europe, to raise salaries. Now, of course, I don't know if there are any foreign soldiers in Malatya orb. We'll give him information, especially by asking our national Secretary of Defense. Sir, Mr. Halaman specifically mentioned Adana. Of course, in the winter conditions, some roads have been destroyed in all of Turkey, indeed in Adana, as a result of the intense winter conditions, you know, some bridges have been destroyed. Now, let me give you some information about these bridges. If the bridges are on the highways, they are responsible for making these bridges and bridges to be repaired by the General Directorate of the Land Roads; no, the village roads are actually responsible for making Special Administration. On the creeks, our private administrations sometimes have limited resources. We can build bridges that have been destroyed on the creeks, just as they did in Ergene. In that case, Congressman, if necessary, let's give you as much help as we can. However, for this purpose, our government sent a substantial amount of money to all private administrations -- because of the harsh winter conditions -- with the decision to plan high. Right now, I don't know how much money he's been sent to Adana, but money has gone to all the provinces. We'll give you the support you need. Now, Mr. Light, it's impossible for me to know the number of foreign experts at this time, but we're going to give it to you in writing, but a claim that they were sent to Syria as spies, that they were working as spies, that's extremely wrong, so that's not true. Our government did not take this kind of action in Syria, nor will it, so let me sum it up. So there is no such thing as sending foreign experts to Syria as spies. I don't even think it's appropriate to ask, and I want to make that very clear.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0050par0468	You let us know where they work, Mr. Secretary. It's not our claim, it's public record, there's no response, there's no rebuttal.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0048par0469	Other than that, Mr. Tripoli, our former mayor, now, when I was Minister of the Environment Forest, they said that there was a particular number of naval discharges there -- even myself -- that the promotion center was completely abandoned. I didn't go to the promotional center, but I know the discharge isn't working. So, the promotional center doesn't work, and I, as I recall at the time -- I'm going to tell you in part -- I sent a support to the mayor of Tripoli from the Ministry of Environmental Forests to build them, so let me be specific. Besides, we gave Tripoli, you know, the necessary support in your time. If you recall, he had a severe waste problem. There, in the pineburnu, you know that we have given great support to a system that will remove the solid wastes of all Tripoli and Rizze.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0051par0472	You gave it to the private administration as a contribution, Mr. Secretary, not to the city. In fact, there was a drinking water problem in Tripoli, Congressman. To solve the drinking water problem at the root, you know, we built the Atasu Dam, and it was really perfect. Our Prime Minister will be opening her soon, hopefully, but she's been served. Even all the river reforms... you know how Zagnos Valley was rehabilitated, what it was like. Please, if at some point you appreciate what we're doing. It's a compliment. Okay, let me know if we're missing anything, but what we're doing... Sir, I say to Erdoğan Bayraktar Bey all the time, thank you. You've wasted it there. You've accused it, but you're saying it in the mayor's office. Let's go together tomorrow.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0052par0475	Congressman, I didn't blame you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0051par0476	We say things that are done well, you know.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0052par0477	Just give me a minute. I didn't blame you, and even the mayor's human relations are so good. He's at peace with everyone. He's amazing. I appreciated that part of you, and I said I appreciated it.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0051par0478	Is it in the press?
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0052par0479	No, I don't know about that, but I'm saying what I said. I mean, we appreciate our former mayor, the mayor, who's had some really admirable, good relations with the public. We appreciate your good qualities, of course, but allow us to criticize municipal services, because I am a man who knows Tripoli very well. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0053par0481	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The question-answer process is complete. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Ugur Bayraktutan, Artvin MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on the matter.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0054par0488	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 3/3 of the Dair Bill for the Common Use of Esendere and Sero Hudut Gate between the Republic of Turkey and the Islamic Republic of Iran. I salute your high council. First, there is a serious problem with my constituency, especially the Black Sea, and the East Black Sea. I've been trying to bring this up for two days in Parliament, and we're going to hold a press conference with the Republican People's Party MPs in the Black Sea, both with questions motions and parliamentary research motions, both with my speech in Congress today and with press conferences tomorrow. What's wrong? My dear friends, there is a serious problem in the Black Sea. What is the problem with this tea in the Black Sea? First of all, let's consider what tea is and why tea is a problem. Just as boron is a strategic product for Turkey, tea is a very important product for the Black Sea, my dear friends. We alone provide 5 percent of the world's production of tea. Turkey is the seventh place in the world to produce tea. If we don't get into imports, we're going to make $1.5 billion a year, a very important sector. Therefore, the Black Sea is a very important situation in the matter of tea. See, it is not possible to plant any plant other than tea and provide livelihood in the current rain situation and geographical situation in the Black Sea. In addition, tea is being produced in all the countries around the world, but the only region of the Black Sea region where tea is produced without pesticides. In this regard, the Black Sea is very important. Now, there have been serious problems with tea recently. One of them's illegal tea. An important problem in Turkey's agenda. Turkey produces about 200-220,000 tonnes of dry tea annually, but our country also has about 50,000 tonnes of dry tea from the outside. Therefore, we face a significant amount of tea at about 25 per cent, 30 per cent. This is a serious problem. I asked the Minister here yesterday. Although age tea season has opened, unfortunately, most of the tea factories found in Rize, Tripoli, and Artvin have not yet begun production at full capacity. Despite the capacity of around 7,000 tonnes per day, a production of about 4,000 tonnes and 4,500 tonnes is currently being carried out in tea factories on the grounds of repair. Yesterday, Mr. Secretary said it was about 7,000 tons. We can't possibly accept that. In fact, some of the actual tea factories, unfortunately, are not fully operational, so tea is not being received by CHAYKUR. The most important problem now in the Black Sea, my dear friends, is the practice of Kota. The Black Sea faces a serious problem with 10 kilograms of tea per dekar. Unfortunately, the teamaker can't give tea he collected from the tea garden. For this reason, tea producers pour tea into the streets, in the streets, especially in the streets, in the towns of Rize, Hopa, in our coastal districts. Yesterday, Black Sea Coast Road was closed for about an hour and a half. When you can't give the tea to the tea company, the teamaker -- I mean, when there's a serious problem -- the tea maker goes and leans on the door of the private sector. The price of tea has been announced today, you know, with a little delay. The price here has been announced at a price of about $1.22. The price is the price of the tea base, as explained by CHAKUR. But unfortunately, when it comes to this quota application for the manufacturer, when it's applied to the quota, the manufacturer can't give his tea to ChiKUR and goes to the private sector. My friends, this is one of the most important problems. So the real price of tea is 65 cents, 60 cents, and it tells the private sector tea maker that I'll take your tea, but I'll give you your money in a year. My dear friends, in what right is a practical situation a year later when the price of tea is paid? I'm calling this on your conscience. It doesn't pay in cash, and that's the saddest thing. It says, "I'll pay you back in a year, and I can return some of that cash to you as dry tea, 30 percent, 35 percent." So I can counter the commodity with a commodity, make a trampoline. So he doesn't go into cash, he meets part of the payment with dry tea, he says he'll pay you back part of the payment with olives or something else. Therefore, there is a serious victimization. Let me give you an example of this: In 2010 -- which is the official data that we've received from CHAYKUR -- when CHAYKUR is buying 550,000 tons of tea -- these numbers are accurate and accurate -- private sector 715 thousand tons of tea, my dear friends. Now, you'll see, when you compare the numbers that I've just expressed, the price the private sector has given -- which is 60-65 cents -- is an interesting fact that when you compare the price given by CHAPUR, the number in between shows where it goes, which people go to their pockets. In 2010, at around 14 trillion dollars today, the amount did not, unfortunately, go into the manufacturer's pocket, in fact, into the pockets of tea speculators and a few people who had a say in the tea market. We demand that this be judged by the High Council. Now, at the coming point, unfortunately, there is a need for a new tea law, a legal arrangement that can protect the manufacturer's rights. Today, the legal arrangements for tea in Rize are related to the manufacturers of some 1 million people, my dear friends. Look, be careful, a million people live on tea. We say that this tea, which concerns the future of 1 million people, is a very important problem, must be taken from the tea market. So there's no way we're taking tea with a tea market. In all the literature of the world, this tea market or stock market may be in places where production and production may take place separately, so if production is happening in one place, we can talk about the tea market where production and commercial activity are separate, but I think you'll face a very serious problem if you try to take it the way of the stock market, one of Turkey's major tea production centers. Therefore, a tea law that protects the rights of teamakers is surely useful. My dear friends, look, what we're trying to tell you here is that the Black Sea, as I've just expressed, is that it's a very serious problem. The teamaker collects his tea, but can't give his tea to Chaykur. What's the reason for that? It's 10 kilograms per per per per per del. There have been some serious pressures in some places, such as Hopa, Kemalpaşa, Arhavi, and others in Arhavi. These amounts have increased to 10 kilos, 12 kilos, but they haven't received them, my friends. And when he didn't, there was a serious problem. Although tea season has been opened, a significant portion of Chaykur's factories do not operate on grounds of maintenance, and do not buy tea based on this reason. Here's the game we're trying to bring in: we're dealing with a privatisation game. It's also in the ninth Plan of Development, which says: "In the days ahead, China will be privatized. We will never accept it. TECHUR is not being modernized and there is no study of the necessary equipment and equipment in the factory to run the tea business, so in a sense it has been dismissed. As a result, only they benefit from the tea, not the tea producers that provide for 1 million families, but a few speculators -- we know who they are -- as I just said. Therefore, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we demand that this problem, which is now bleeding in the Black Sea, be brought to the level of a social explosion, which is causing serious influxes, be brought to light as soon as possible. We want all bureaucrats in charge of the TEAYKUR administration, especially Mr. General Manager, to find an immediate solution. Look, the people who are in charge of this business, unfortunately, they can't find the General Manager of CHAKUR and the members of his Board of Directors, looking for them, not answering their phones, my dear friends. What could be more important in the Black Sea? We're dealing with a very serious painting. That's what we're trying to tell you when our language turns. So, yesterday, as I've just stated, we gave the Minister a question motion, and I asked him several verbal questions yesterday, but unfortunately, it was misaligned. It says: "NURCH continues to work with the capacity of 7,000 tons. " It is not true. If you really want to buy all the tea, you must increase your production capacity to 10,000 tons per day. But at this point, unfortunately, the manufacturer is currently at 4,500 tons, 4,000 tons of tea capacity, and unfortunately, the manufacturer is a victim. The manufacturer deals with several private tea factories, they don't pay immediately, they delay their payments by a year, and at the end of a year they don't pay them in cash, my dear friends. So we're dealing with a very serious, very social-explosion-level problem. We believe our fellow deputies in the Turkish Grand National Assembly will be sensitive to this problem. We want this bleeding wound repaired as soon as possible. Look, before I came, I brought you tea from the Black Sea yesterday. Today, teamakers everywhere in the Black Sea take these teas, and they hold them like this, and they pour them like this, friends, see? So I pour it here, on the stand, look, I pour it here.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0055par0506	Mr. Flagtutan, please...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0054par0507	This is a very serious problem. That's the only way I can tell you this, my dear friends.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0055par0508	Please, Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0054par0509	As I finish my words here, the Black Sea butler will not be an American butler. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit01spe0055par0512	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0055par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 111th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 7 in rows. The commission and the government are in place. Now, Sırrı Sakık, MP for the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the 3rd Amendment. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0056par0007	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. International contracts are important, but first the state must fulfill its contracts with its own people, so that international contracts can have word and decision. Now, we've been discussing some issues that we've voiced for a few days, which have sometimes caused tensions, and even our Speaker of Parliament is involved. One of these issues is Roboski, which means that 150 days ago in Roboski, an innocent victim, 34 Kurdish people left behind by their ancestors, the imperial forces set a limit on their land. Some of his relatives stayed on that side, some of them here, artificial boundaries formed, and these people went there to make a living. Two days before 2012, an operation was sent down at night with the F-16. These people were showered on their heads, and we've been singing it for the day. While we are doing this, the government's authority boards have come out and you, sir, feed on blood, violence, death. This language is a rusty and dirty language. We really defend the victim's rights, his law. Today is a blessed day, a blessed night. Everyone should have their hands on their conscience. If you can't make peace with your own people, if you can't maintain their law, you can't make peace with your own people. Look, because of the operation of Israel on the Blue Marmara ship, the prosecutors here quickly found those who performed those operations in Israel and filed a lawsuit. If anything happens to you, there will be immediate lawsuits from Balyoz, Ergenekon, and Ergenekon. Well, when your hand is so long -- it extends all the way to Israel -- you can sue the commanders there, your own people are being bombed on your own land, your own people are dying, your minister comes out and says, "These were extras." Then, today, there was a sound of more sensitive, more common sense than you, and he said, "This doesn't represent us. These are the words that contradict AKP's policies. Now, don't we have the right to ask a question from here? If that doesn't represent you, it's the Minister for over a year, and he's persecuted a people every day, he's persecuted a people, he's persecuted opponents, and what is this person's role? Why don't you relieve him? If he does not represent you in this matter, this must be publicly and publicly shared and immediately dismissed as a tribute to the memory of the dead. Now, on the day of the Roboski incident, we were there as a whole. The relatives of the dead said: "This is what we inherited from our fathers. And our fathers were passing by, and we were passing by, making a living. Now our children are leaving. The authorities say: "Sir, the government, the state -- I don't know -- doesn't know about this." That's not true. As you go from there, those people you call the fugitives are aware of it, and the state is divided on the way back. Those who serve there also receive a share of gas and cigarettes from these people. For him, he was not news. We've done this, we've done this... the Prime Minister's statement is even more painful. What have we done? We gave them their money. Dear friends, I told you the other day, when we touch our shoulders at the door, we turn around and apologize to each other 10 times, but you don't show that virtue. That is why there are cliffs between you and the Kurds. You bombed us, our heart bridge in Roboski, and you dropped that bomb that day, you bombed that bridge, and now, all of you, this Parliament, has great responsibilities. When this Parliament authorized cross-border operations, the National Movement Party, the Republican People's Party, the AKP, we called from here: this is not the solution. You can make a run for cross-border operations, but this time you'll be dealing with Roboski. You make the expedition, but there's no victory for these expeditions because there have been campaigns in 30 years of war, but these expeditions have not been victorious. Now, this Parliament has given you this authority to the government. The government is responsible for this. No, sir, our security forces... you can't transfer this to three people. When the time and the place is right, you say the judgment is independent, but the judge is not independent in the TK case. But when it comes to the MIT, when it's about the Lighthouse, you interfere with the judiciary, but when it's Ergenekon, when it's a sledgehammer, you say you can't interfere with the judiciary. When the time and the place is right, you put yourself in the position of judgment and make decisions. My dear friends, when I say these things, make sure our heart bridge doesn't get bombed. On the one hand, those who talk about dialogue and negotiations, we have a duty to heal the wounds. In 30 years of war, everyone is so dirty, so many people have dirty hands and blood. For him, we need a social compromise, we need peace. Everywhere in Asia Minor, in Kurdish geography, people die every day. It's called the army, it's the police, it's thegerilla, whatever it is, these people are all our futures and our children. We don't have the luxury of distinguishing between them. We need to patch these wounds together. You, as a whole, wage war against a people... not only in the mountains, but in schools, it's the same thing. Two days ago, I went to the DGM, under the new name of the special security courts, where the presidents of the court ask the students: "Is that picture yours? Your mouth is open, you put a slogan, you read that anthem. Turns around, spins around, spins around, Mekaptan, the judge punishes the Kurdish children for the megaphone in his hand, and turns and says: "Go to the mountains. Such, a judicial process, such as this, in all areas of Kurdish life... in Balıkesir, just three days ago, the children will go to their friends while they eat in the restaurant, and they will answer the phone, whether they bring you food, whether it's ketchup or mayonnaise?" And Kurdish students will be arrested. Here, just now, Mr. Shandir has told me about the cruel policies that were imposed on the Turks here in that thing. Layla's fate is one with the fate of Rabia. Look, Layla, she's been in prison for ten years. Today, your colleague Layla was sentenced to ten years for expressing her thoughts. The persecution of Rabia, yes, is a massacre, a persecution, but the same is the persecution of the people, whose friends are of Leyla, and whose friends are of Leyla. Now, this Parliament shouldn't be watching this. Here, the judicial package will come and we'll discuss it, and we'll have to discuss it, and we'll have to find a social compromise in this package, so the lawmakers will be fined for ten years for opening their mouths, and the MP who was here last semester has been sentenced to 15 years and seven months for repeating what he said on this stand. In September 12th, this persecution took place. The year 2012, the AKP talks about power, freedom and democracy, and the same persecution continues. Now, how are we going to achieve social reconciliation, social peace with this? I, as I pointed out in the beginning... today, Ahmet Altan had a very fine writing, saying: "If these 34 conservatives had been killed, 34 Ataturkers, 34 nationalists, you nationalists, O Ataturkers, O believers, would you not rebel?" In the name of this holy night, I say to you, O nation of Muhammad, on this blessed day, will you still shut up about these events, Roboski? I want to thank you all for these feelings.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0057par0020	Thank you. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP who has asked for a personal word on the matter.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0058par0023	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, I pray to God Almighty, that the three months we are in... and the Regaip Kandili, which we will realize tonight, will bring blessings to the Turkish-Islamic world. At the same time, great litigator, I want to remember Necip Fazil Shortfurek, from our spiritual pillars, with mercy and gratitude and gratitude in his death. And to the petty officer we buried today, who was a martyr in Mukh, I ask God's mercy, and his grieving family's condolences. I hope this will be the last time I wish to convey your wish. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, today, this law, first of all, I wish you all the best. But yesterday, you know, the officers' unions were all over Turkey. We went there with four of our fellow deputies to be with our officers in Kızılay, to be with the public staff. I want to make it very clear that Turkey, which I prided myself on being its founder, is a trade union in this country that has been fighting for the existence and independence of this state for 20 years, so that this nation will not be restored to its union, and yesterday, for the first time in twenty years, I saw a mass of so many people, a large mass. There Mr. President Ismail Concubine gave a speech, saying slogans to speak in silence, but they did not challenge the slightest outburst. However, whatever happened at the end of the meeting, there were attacks on the officers who split up and left and headed for the Kızılay side, with pepper gas, no telling where they came from. Turkish News-Sen, Turkish Transport Presidents spent the night in emergency rooms, members of Turkey's Agriculture-Orman Sen and some of the other members were injured. Now, what I want to say from here is that you're talking about advanced democracy, you're talking about freedoms, and you're torturing officers with an understanding that you can't even stand the testimony of the officer who's looking for his rights. Now, what right do you have? But let me make this very clear: look, this is the most important indicator of where you are today. We're dealing with a ruling party and a government that doesn't tolerate even the slightest criticism. On Friday, we lived in Adana. Two of your ministers were an organization of civil society organizations there for hours at the awards ceremony for tax records for the chairmanship of the Adana Chamber of Industry and the Adana Chamber of Commerce. We didn't make a sound. I said a sentence to Mr. Minister, in the incentive law, he's got Adana transferred to the second district, and he's getting more migrations than the cities you count. Look, what happens if a minister says this in Turkey? I'm a congressman and I represent the nation. That's exactly what I'm saying, it's in the records: Mr. Minister, there's a migration in Adana. I said, "It's just a sentence." They talk for two hours. That's exactly what he said, valuable deputies: sit down, I'll give you hours of lessons. Don't make me lecture you for hours. We're dealing with a minister who's going to say, Now, where there is a government member or members of the government in that understanding, what conditions will the officers seek their rights? Oh, it may be that the officer you raised artificially in your days of power... here we sit down with the lamb, the officer-sen. What happens to the other unions? The unions you call other unions have valuable MPs, hundreds of thousands of members. Did you get along with the union you call the Lamb? He brought 7.6+6. Let the government respond here. I thought you were going to get along. What did you give me? It's obvious, and it's for show. Look, while the Public-Senists were exposed to pepper gas, Officer-Yen, in an act of 100 persons, in an environment where the officers were not admitted to the Kızılay, they laid down their mats to the Security Park, sat under the sycamore trees, under the acacia trees, and made a supposed press statement with 100 people. That's the reaction you want, but you won't let the officers who came to Abdi Silky Park with tens of thousands of people enter the Kızılay. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Look, I want to make it very clear that no one has ever been bullied by persecution, and neither have you. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0059par0037	Thank you. Hasan Karal, Congress Member of Rize, who has asked for a personal word on the matter.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0060par0040	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, I salute you all. We've just had a very unfortunate incident, and Mr. Uður, our Artvin MP, whom I love very much, has made a great disrespect to our tea by pouring our tea into the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is the one and only means of living in the East Black Sea region, and I believe he has had the most important contribution to all of us coming to this day.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0061par0042	Did he make it for your tea or the Turkish Grand National Assembly?
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0060par0043	I say we do not accept this disrespect for our tea, and at the same time I return to him this disrespect to the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, while you're here, I would like to point out that, of course, there may have been some difficulties with the age tea campaign that began in May this year, but no complaints about the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have been on the agenda here for ten years. Because when we took over the city in 2002, even the phone calls from the Public Prosecutor's Office were in foreclosure, and after eight months, nine months, even a year later, he was giving his money to the manufacturer, and he was in an economic crisis in which he could pay for the month of May, but now he's in a position to pay for the tea he received. Thus, due to the capacity increase this year, Chaykur's daily capacity for tea is 6,600 tonnes, some studies have been conducted to increase it to 7,000 tons and above. Because of these studies, some of our factories, four or five factories, have had some difficulties with purchases. You can say these things, you can say some negatives about purchases here. It's very natural, it's normal, but no one dares to stand up and pour our bread on the floor, our purpose of existence, our everything, our only bread door, in a bag, and pour it in here to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0062par0046	You spilled the tea in the sea.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0063par0047	People are pouring it into the sea.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0060par0048	This is the greatest disrespect for our tea. We can't accept this as a Rize MP and as a son of the district, and we don't accept it. So, hopefully, you'll see that our tea, of course, is going to see much, much better days as it is now in it. And I find it very meaningful that these issues are still being brought up, even though we have denied the lies and slanders that would include the privatisation of CHACUR, and I think that those who did the tea-slapping act yesterday and the day after that, in order to shut down the roads of Rize. And I think they served the same understanding and the same ideology. Look, yesterday at Rize, the roads closed, the tea poured out. Why is the tea spilled? Tea has been poured out in the street due to the difficulty of running teas from the election district of our very dear MP from the Artvin region who was just speaking here. So let there be no tea from Artvin, let there be no tea of Rize, let there be no tea of Rize, let it be run in the factories.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0064par0051	Is not the tea of Artvin holy, and the tea of Rize?
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0060par0052	... But we, as a chameleon, as Artvin, Rize, Tripoli and Giresun, are certainly not making regional distinctions...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0065par0053	What are you doing?
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0060par0054	... And we say, we're going to think about all of our shortcomings at the same time, and we're going to evaluate them, but instead of coming here to discuss them, he sees it as a really unfortunate step to bring our tea under his seat and pour it here on the floor, and I give it to you, especially once again, to pay attention, to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0066par0056	Thank you. The question-answer process will be done. Dear Varli, come in.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0067par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you changed the law 2/B here with a motion against the farmer and the villager for 50 per cent of the price, five years, 10 installments in the commission, 70 per cent of the price. Now the farmer's screaming. I had with me today several chiefs of our Ceyhan, Adana, Ceyhan County, all asking what the peasant would do with it. Now, come, if you have a little conscience, if you have a little compassion, at least do something to support the farmer, to support the peasant, so that the farmer and the peasant can get these fields, or by the law that you took out behind him, right after that, these lands will go to strangers, and our land will fall into the hands of strangers, and I'm very worried about that. What are you going to do about it, please explain to the public? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0068par0063	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0069par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I don't think my earlier question is clear. As it is known, last semester, the Undersecretary of Public Security Act was passed here, where foreign experts were given staffs. My question is, how many foreign experts have been assigned to these foreign specialists? Is it true that some experts on this staff are involved in the media? Does your government have anything to do with this? Can you inform the public and the High Council? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0070par0068	Thank you. Mr. Tanal... no. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0071par0071	Thank you. Malatya's most important source of income, the biggest enemy of the apricot, as I said, is, after the AKP, frost and in May, full. That's what the Malatian farmers feared. From Tuesday onwards, in Malatya, in Battalgazi, in Darende, in Engüzek, in Ozan, Karaoguz, Mollausük, in Karimli villages, and yesterday in Kuluncak, Karachayır, Tea, Alvar, Kızhisar, destroyed 70 per cent of the apricot fruit in the villages. It's called insurance from TARSIM. But, dear friends, it's basically a system designed to rob Malatian apricot manufacturers. I demand that this system be changed, and I ask the government to help the apricot manufacturers who have been hurt in the underwear. And, Minister, I want to say something about you, we have a dam in Malatya called Medik Dam, Malatya Medik Dam. This Medik Dam seems to be running, but it's running like a tea now, it's not functioning as a dam, it's been full of miles and dirt for years, and we're asking you to reopen it.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0072par0074	Thank you. Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0073par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, as was last year, unfortunately, last week, it rained heavily on Iğdır, causing significant damage to all products. Like the congressman who just gave the speech, our Iğdır is having a similar problem. TARSIM is not the answer to many of our citizens' problems because their prices are too high, the property problems are not fully resolved. Do you consider delaying interest or other support for the citizens who have given their products to the hail? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0074par0080	Thank you. Oh, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0075par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. The regulations for receiving transit fees from freeways and bridges, bridges, tunnels and viaducts, as well as the highways and bridges, which are responsible for the General Directorate of Highways, went into effect at the beginning of the week. Although it is not clear yet how the regulation will be implemented, the news that the freeways will now be rich has sparked a public reaction and reverberation. It specifically points out that it is contrary to constitutional substances, such as the Rules of Consumption Associations, the principle of social state, freedom of travel, and the state's protection of consumers. It was not pleasant and correct to perceive it as a raise in highways immediately by the Minister of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications, Mr. Buli Yıldırım. From his statement, I would first like to ask what is different, which is reflected in the right public. I'd like to ask if we can conclude that they're not going to get a raise on their highway. Is the access road, bridge, tunnel, and viaducts to be paid separately under regulations? Is it not contrary to the social principle of social government to receive additional fees from a citizen's pocket, a road, a water, an electric return on taxes? Won't it make traffic in Istanbul even more difficult? I'd like to ask your government. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0076par0088	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0077par0090	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, first of all, you know, the law 2/B has been passed, and the Supreme Assembly has passed this law. This has been particularly helpful because for years, the Supreme Assembly has solved this problem, which has been gangrene since 1981, more or less. Of course, here, first of all, if we say what the price is, the price is different, the price of sale is different. Rayic's price, as you know, is a price that shows the value of that land set by the Treasury Department, but here, you know, our government has decided to multiply it by 70 per cent and sell it. Thus, we made an important 30 per cent theme. Also, 20 percent of the people who paid in advance were also given a tenzilate. So 70 percent times 80 per cent, 56 per cent, or 56 per cent of the sales price in advance, is estimated by the law that was issued here as 56 per cent of the rail price. Besides...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0078par0092	What do you mean, 56% of it, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0077par0093	Excuse me, you asked, I'll answer.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0078par0094	How? You're misinformation. How is that 56 percent?
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0077par0095	Besides, there's...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0078par0096	Well, you're giving me the wrong information.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0077par0097	That's how I keep you informed.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0079par0098	Please, Congressman.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0077par0099	Let me decide how to fill you in. You asked.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0080par0100	Of course, it's your call, but you're misinformation, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0077par0101	Our people appreciate what I've decided, how I've informed them. In particular, there has been a great opportunity for those who want to take the future. Look, for those of you who want to take a future within the city limits, you've been given this opportunity for three years, once every six months, without interest. So, I want to express it. The price was claimed to be high in some places. Okay, but we're not selling at a price. The second issue is currently working to assess the cost in places that are alleged to be high again before the Finance Ministry declares it. The responsibility is already in the Finance Ministry, which is the subject of re-checking the cost, and in many places, prices have been found to be very appropriate and reasonable, but there is no such thing as selling them to foreigners. These areas are all owned by national real estate, property belonging to the Treasury Department, and they've been given the deed. So we made such a law to sell it to the people who own it, or it's out of the question to the foreigners. Direct rights owners will apply, not even other people will apply.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0081par0106	We'll see in six months!
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0077par0107	Mr. Light, I've just made a statement about foreign experts in particular. We've expressed how many people were taken, and we'll give you the number in writing. How many foreign specialists have been taken away from me right now, which, as I've just expressed in the newspapers, there is such a claim, but there is no such attempt, no attempt in our government as to the fact that these foreign experts are working as agents here in Syria, Turkey, again. I want to make that very clear. Of course, in particular, yes, this apricot is about the frosting incident in Malatya. You know, there's insurance. The Ministry of Agriculture pays 50 percent of this, even the insurance, but if there's any problem with it, whatever can be done, we'll discuss it with the Minister of Agriculture again, if you have any suggestions. I mean, we want agricultural insurance. So let's not just sit down, let's talk about whether or not the areas exposed to the flood are insured, so we have an offer like this so that our farmer doesn't become a victim, but if you have any other proposals, let's sit down and negotiate. I'll handle the matter of the Medik Dam, and I'll follow it myself. By the end of June, I will probably personally come to Malatya and monitor the investments there. Our Iğdır MP said the same thing. The same answer is the same, Congressman, I know. I also give you the good news: You know, the last time you said, "You're not investing in lğdır. " At the moment, planning on the dam in Iğdır is ending. When the project is completed, we will build that dam, and it will be used as both a flood and a supply of drinking water in our lğdur. Now, our Istanbul MP, Mr. Kadir Öğüt sir, has asked some questions about our Ministry of Transport. Since there's no time left, if you'll excuse me, let our Transport Ministry answer in writing. Thank you, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0082par0113	Thank you. I submit the item to your votes:
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0083par0115	We want a sufficient number of decisions, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0082par0116	Those who refuse... are accepted. You asked for it later, Mr. Tanal. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the Court of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Iran between the Islamic Republic of Iran Esendere and Sero Kara Border Doors under open vote that Agreement Approvement for Joint Use is appropriate: ▪ Number of votes used: 190 [[x]] (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the draft Law on Compromises of Law and the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 3rd place. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed by 233 rows. Congressmans, according to the decision taken, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, after negotiations on the entire bill have been agreed to be completed and transferred to its articles, the chapters will be discussed, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Hakan Sergeantoglu has been asked to speak for the AK PARTI Group on the entire bill. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0084par0141	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the bill of the Interrogation Act in Law Incompatibility 233. I hereby salute your high council. Congressmans, as you know, when it comes to resolving discrepancies among individuals, the first thing that comes to mind is a judicial settlement of courts and discrepancies. At the same time, the courts have begun to produce the desired results, both long and costly trial activities, as well as the fact that the discrepancies have become more complicated than before, as well as that they want to maintain and maintain all kinds of legal and commercial relations with each other. Again, because there is a challenging and contentious process within the judicial process, there is no need to satisfy the parties and maintain social peace. Because in the process of trial, it is not intended to develop solutions in accordance with the interests of the parties, but the judge is trying to reach material truth by making a decision by implementing positive and material law. Therefore, the verdict, regardless of the interests of the parties on the basis of conflict, does not satisfy even the side that sometimes wins the case. However, the sides of the conflict have begun to look for alternative ways to reach the solution they need. So that even international institutions and organizations invite their decisions and member states to organise alternative solutions outside the court to better access to justice. For example, at the European Union summit in Tampere, October 15, 1999, members and candidate countries were invited to organise alternative solutions, while in 2002 the United Nations Trade Commission organised model law for the purposes of the alternative solution method for law to be similar. As a result of the search for alternative conflict solutions, the intermediary process was the fastest, the fastest, and the preferred. Here's what we're talking about. It's a mediation process, which is a compromise-based alternative solution, which is basically consistent with our historical, cultural and social code. The arrangement and intermediary has been described as a non-compromising solution of a neutral and independent third person's participation and voluntary conflict with the aim of bringing the parties together in order to discuss and negotiate the solution of private law disputes stemming from jobs and transactions that are being saved freely, and to ensure that they understand each other and produce their solutions. (x) 233 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Members of parliament, it is of great importance that the establishment of intermediary, adopted by society, and preferred in our country today, which is being implemented in all member states of the European Union and in the United States of America, and even in many South African countries. Because intermediary is a conflicting solution that aims to eliminate conflicts without destroying social peace and peace, by putting their mutual interests ahead of them without having to resort to judicial measures. As it aims to contribute mainly to social peace, it will also ease the burden of the judiciary by removing the discrepancies without becoming a case. For these reasons, during talks on both the main commission and the lower commission, the demands of opposition, occupational rooms and other organisations have been given maximum attention and changes in the bill. With these amendments, it has been intended for a wide range of social domains to be established in our country, while intermediary is not an act of trial, and it has been sought out that the mediators have had legal training and have had a period of experience in order to ensure that the establishment is effectively operated. Against social sensibilities, the bill has been found to be incompatible with disputes involving domestic violence claims, but it has come up with the claim that the right of the European Union cannot be used in independent courts, and that it cannot be passed on, and that the right to interject the Constitution can't be used in all countries and in the United States. The opposition's objections and criticism are free from legal grounds. Members of parliament, first and foremost, it is a constitutional requirement, contrary to the claim that it is contrary to the Constitution. The conclusion, indeed, is that one of the main tasks of the state, including the provisions of the Constitution, the 2nd, the 5th, the 45th, is to provide people and society with prosperity, peace and happiness. The government has various instruments that it can use to provide this task, which can be summed up in the form of social peace. Of course, one of them is the middleman's establishment. Because intermediary does not contain the negative features of the trial and trial, but rather, it creates a sense of satisfaction, which is a win-win. The Constitutional Court, on the other hand, points to the necessity of searching for alternative solutions in its decision on the 20/03/2008 date and 78/74 decision -- in its decision on the executive arbitration committee: it is the duty of the judiciary to conclude cases according to Article 141, according to Article 141. As it becomes difficult to carry out this task under heavy work, alternative methods for the resolution of discrepancies may be seen as necessary to ensure the effectiveness of constitutional rules related to the judiciary. Congressmans, as to the allegations that the establishment of the Constitution's mediation establishment constitutes a violation of the Constitution's 9th and 36th Articles: An organic or formal trial is not being conducted in the method of intermediary and there is no alternative to the judicial authority of the courts. There is no binding decision in the mediation, no investigations, no witness hearing, no legal evidence evidence evidence evidence, no discovery, no investigation and evaluation of experts. Since the mediator is not a judge, he does not exercise judgment, even indirectly. On the other hand, it will not limit the freedom of rights if the agency of mediation is willing to submit to the process, the process, the process, the process, or the outcome of its decision, both sides require mutual consent and the entity does not close the path of trial unless they want to compromise. Members of parliament, the opposition government of the EC PARTY or a background and search for a secret agent have also recuperated in this bill concerning the proposals and proposals of the EC PARTY MPs. The opposition uses a provocative style of bringing in a modern women's system at the same time with the bill, and on the other hand, it manipulates and discredits the situation by saying that the establishment and the sects will establish their own intermediary structures, that ethnic and feudal patterns and customs will find an area of practice. Congressmans, the method of mediation should be seen as a way for the spread of state control, and should not be kept out of mind, allowing the parties to be removed from traditional institutions and solution mechanisms by providing covert control. The state takes away the power of traditional and other power sources with alternative solutions by allowing solutions to conflict outside the courts to increase freedoms in this issue. I wish you all the best for our community, for our country, for our nation, for the sake of intervening with these feelings and thoughts.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0085par0157	Thank you. This is Oktay Ozturk, Erzurum MP who has asked for the People's Party for National Action.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0086par0160	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I stand before you to express the opinion of our group on the Bill of Compromises in Laws. I salute you all. Members of parliament, we believe that the resolution of conflicts without trial is very important and useful, on the one hand, by reducing the workload of the judiciary, and by helping citizens resolve their problems in a short way and avoid uncertainty. It is also observed that there has been a trend in our law in recent years. Of course, these non-judgmental solutions can only be applied in terms of discrepancies that people can save freely on. No issue of public order can be described as an issue between individuals and cannot be left to their will. As a matter of fact, in the first article of the bill, this Law is clearly highlighted in resolving private law conflicts born of work or transactions, which can only be saved freely over the parties, including those carrying the element of alienity. It is clear that our country is in need of an intermediary institution framed like this. The mediation agency is one of the alternative solutions to conflict, perhaps the most important. The fundamental and final authority in the resolution of conflict here is left to the will of the parties, contrary to the authoritarian character of court and arbitration procedures. It is hoped that the intermediary institution can be implemented more widely in communities with a developed sense of right and justice and a certain level of culture. Granted, if we look at the practice of the judiciary in our country, there may be some underlying benefits from the mediation institution in the beginning, given the fact that the losing parties usually use not only to appeal but to correct decisions, even to force retrial procedures. However, we feel that it is beneficial to organize this institution and to present it as an opportunity for our citizens to testify. The intermediary institution has also been known to be widespread in European countries in recent years. Many institutions in the European Union have turned to mediation in resolving discrepancies, and even bilateral agreements between some European Union countries may at times be held. Finally, the Council of the European Union, which considers that the intermediary institution is becoming increasingly widespread in member countries, has put the issue on the agenda in 2008, and is ultimately subject to a unit-wide arrangement with the European Union's Intermediation Director. The European Union Director for 2008/52 states that. This directive, which connects all countries of the European Union, sums up the following: Courts will be able to recommend that the parties resort to the path of mediation, and they will be able to decide whether to attend the parties' information meetings on mediation. The confidentiality of documents and information obtained during the intermediary process is also organised, and may not even be used in the process of court and investigation. However, there have been significant exceptions to this principle of secrecy. When it comes to the protection of public order, the protection of the child in family mediation, and the physical and spiritual damage of individuals, there will be no privacy. If an agreement is reached as a result of the mediation process, these parties...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0087par0168	Mr. President, wait a minute... there's a matter of procedure. Now there's no one representing the Commission during the Commission.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0088par0169	There's a special speaker.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0087par0170	Wait a minute, friend...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0089par0171	Mr. Young, that's no way to go about it.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0087par0172	Sir, look, I have something to say.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0089par0173	You can't interrupt me when I'm on the stand. Please...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0087par0174	Mr. President, we are now negotiating illegally. Article 45 says...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0089par0175	There's no such procedure.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0087par0176	Look, the General Assembly is representing the commission...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0090par0177	I thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0089par0178	Mr. Ozturk, if you please.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0087par0179	Just a minute, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0089par0180	As soon as Mr. Hatibi's speech is over, we'll evaluate it, sir, we'll listen to you. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0087par0182	But, sir, the Commission is not represented. Now, in the commission's report, Yilmaz Junior will be the representative...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0089par0183	Mr. Young, let's talk over here, please. Mr. Hanib...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0091par0184	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0087par0185	Mr. President, the commission...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0089par0186	Mr. Ozturk, please come in.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0092par0187	Yes, members of lawmakers, if an agreement is reached as a result of the mediation process...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0087par0188	The commission isn't represented.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0089par0189	Mr. Ozturk, come in. I'll add time, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0093par0191	...it will now be binding for these parties, and after the court's execution of practicality, these agreements can be a subject of action. The statute of limitations will stop during the intermediary process. Continuous training and control mechanisms have been created to ensure that the mediators can be qualified. In other cases, the issue has been handed down to the internal laws of the countries. Now, when we look at the bill on our agenda -- it will apply the original judgment, but -- it seems possible to redefine some of the findings. For one thing, the provision of the bill was very general. Granted, the scope of the law is defined as a private law dispute that can only save on sides from work or transactions, which, as noted above, is appropriate, but will not be sufficient, not enough to prevent complications and injustices. As a matter of fact, this inadequacy has been noted and the need to add an additional sentence to this joke. According to this, incompatibility with domestic violence claims is incompatible with intermediary. This addition has been a bit of a declaration of knowledge because we can say that domestic violence is now considered a public order in our law. Then these allegations are out of bounds. But for example, there is no place here for the protection of children. In the event of the dissolution of the family union under the conditions of our country, additional measures could be taken to protect the woman financially. Another issue is the issue of labor-employee discrepancies. The employer may have been victimized by the employer by means of the mediation agency, which is powerless and vulnerable to the employer. So this general rule could have arranged some meaningful exceptions. The fact that these issues were not included in the bill is described as a flaw. Another issue is that the arbitration institution is an age of judicial authority, which is used by independent courts on behalf of the Turkish nation. This argument is due to the agreement, which was reached as a result of the mediation process, to gain the property of a warrant after it was passed by a competent and competent judge. This concern is justified if judges decide only through the document without listening to it. Moreover, the secrecy of information and documents obtained in the process will make it very limited to the examination of the judge, who will give the statement of the agreement a formal harm. We believe that the way to address this problem is to at least have the judges listen to their parties or their MPs personally before giving them the benefit of their ability to perform after informing them of the agreement text and its consequences. We consider it appropriate to add such a joke to the bill. The lack of exceptions to the principle of secrecy in Article 4 of the bill constitutes one of the missing aspects of this bill. Even in the European Union's directives, exceptions are not included here. Such information and documents can be used in front of the courts, as is the European Union directive, where documents that concern public order or cause damage to one's material or spiritual existence are an exception to the principle of secrecy. However, the arrangement in the last joke of the 5th article of the bill partially covers this hitch, but the information and documents that occur during the simple process remain outside the scope of Article 5 (P.S.), while the principle of secrecy in Article 4 (P.S.) remains absolute. In this case, we feel that exception arrangements must be added to the 4th article based at least on the reasons specified. It is not enough to give the mediator a vocational education alone. Although it is not as busy as it is at work, it is important that every year the mediators receive a minimum service education. Speaking of which, I'd like to bring to you one thing: when we visited this law in European countries, where is it, how is it being applied? In fact, this training must be published to all professions, such as judges and lawyers, according to the specifics of their professions. As a matter of fact, the continuity of this education is sought and cared for in the application of European countries. The most responsible arrangements for this bill are to make the mediation institution dependent on political power through the Ministry of Justice. This approach leads to the institution being born troubled from the beginning. Intermediaries shouldn't be an officer of the Justice Department. Perhaps in the beginning, the department of justice will be given a task, limited to the records of the negotiators and other secretary's work. We think it's wrong to give the Ministry of Justice tasks beyond that -- such as deleting the mediator from his record. At the same time, the structure of the mediation committee, which should have the basic powers, appears to be defining with or indirectly elected members of the Ministry of Justice. According to the form of the Justice Commission, the board's membership composition and working method is: Two judges will be elected by the head of law, the head of the office, a representative of the Justice and Prosecutors' Supreme Court, one from the First Class judges, three representatives from the Union of Bars of Turkey, one from the Notarys Union of Turkey, one from the special legal field elected by the Higher Education Council, three from the Minister of Justice, one from the Union of Justice, one representative from the Union of Turkish Chambers and Stock Exchanges, one representative from the Union of Traders and Arts, one representative from the Turkish Justice Academy of Justice. The president can call in specialists at board meetings as needed. The chairman of the board, the chairman of the board, is held by the head of the office at meetings where the General Manager is not present. The board meets at least twice a year in March and September. In addition, the board can always be called to a meeting at the request of the president or at least five members. The board decides the full number of members with a single majority. As it turns out, a total of 15 board members, the Head of Legal Affairs, the Head of the Department, have hung the Justice Academy's director 3 ▪ directly as the Minister's hierarchic. That's not enough, the Minister is reassigning all three members. Thus, six of the 15 members are directly influenced by the Minister. We think we can add one faculty member elected by the SEC and two judges elected by the HSYK to the Ministry of Justice's domain. In this case, nine out of 15 members remain directly in the influence of political power, including six. When we reverse the account, the remaining majority has the potential to remain directly or indirectly influenced by politics when we put aside 1 member selected by the 3rd Notary Union elected by the Bar Association, 1 and 1 elected by the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges, and 1 elected by the Union of Traders and Artists of Turkey -- which in total makes 6 members. In short, we are concerned that this Council is not designed as an independent committee, but as a subunit of the Ministry of Justice. We're wondering what purpose does it serve to get the Justice Department bureaucrats to elect three members, while this Kurula is a member of the General Director of Law Affairs and the Chief Justice Academy, which is composed of the Chief Justice Academy, and the Minister of Justice's hierarchy, as well as the Minister of Justice to elect three members? For once, we think that the three members the Minister of Justice will also elect should be removed from the bill and if the number of 15 members will be protected, the number of members the Turkish Bar Association will choose will have to be raised to 6. On the other hand, it doesn't make any sense to us that both the Director General and the Head of the Office are members of the Board. Because the Head of the Bureau has already hung the Director General's hierarchy. Since the office cannot discuss a separate will of the juniors regarding public office, it should have been organised that the Council membership would belong only to the General Manager as a principle, if he disagreed, but that the Head of the Office could also participate as a member of the Board. One more membership could be given to one of the other institutions, such as the Notary Association of Turkey. The board was created in the form of an independent board that had never been functional. We don't think it's possible to accept this structure of the board. The general structure and formation of the council should be provided through the door opened by the regulation of the agreements between lawyers, representatives of the parties, in Article 35/5 of the Law Act, while the establishment of the Union of Turkish Bars, which is constitutional and legal fundamental professional structure, is contrary to the nature of the work. Moreover, it is unacceptable for the League of Bars to be avoided being organized as an institution that will provide universities and Turkey's Justice Academy as well as a mediator's education, to try to be excluded from this institution, to be created as a structure subject to the Justice Department's hierarchy of Justice. Let's put it this way: The development of non-judgmental alternative solutions, and in this context, the mediation institution is important. But every opportunity of political power is an effort to consolidate its political authority and spread it to all social and legal areas, including the field of justice. Dear lawmakers, in the historical process, the Ottoman capitalization sank, and our Istrillal War was founded primarily on the principle of removing capitalizations. And in the deals we made, we were able to make it very difficult to remove the capitalizations. Capitalizations are not just in the economic field, but in every area from education to law, this plague surrounds the Ottoman community. Forensic capitalizations have been given in the form of consulate courts. Now the multi-law system must not be allowed again under the name of intermediary. I'd like to add a very important concern here. The name of intermediary should not lead to multi-lawy. We call it intermediary. The mediators must be made clear that they will implement Turkish law, except in conflict with the element of alienity. Otherwise, we are concerned that Turkish law may be violated under the name of multi-legal law, causing public order to be corrupted. Clearly, this arrangement is meant to mediate. The heart wants the media to grow, but this institution should not be transformed into the opposite of the name. The way to do that is to take into account the above criticisms, to address the shortcomings of the law, to establish an independent structure of the Negotiation Board, and to open the way for mediators to be organized within a fully public institutional organisation in the near future. Political power says he must withdraw his hand from this institution, which is just ready to be born, only to help him, and I give all of you my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0094par0207	Thank you. Mr. Young, on the 45th page of the Commission's Report, on your claim, Bartın MP Yilmaz junç and Bursa MP Hasan Sergeantoglu have been selected as special officers under Article 45 (45) of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to represent the Justice Commission in the work of the General Assembly. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Erol Dora is a Mardin MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0095par0212	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a solemn pledge on the bill of intermediation law in the 233rd rows of Law Incompatibility on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party, and I salute you all. Mr. President, good lawmakers, completing the shortcomings of democracy in a country is one of the essential conditions for creating a real legal state. The way to address the shortcomings of democracy and to truly become a democratic legal state is to make the judicial system reliable, to establish an independent system of justice and defence. It is a fact that the judicial system in Turkey is seriously negative, especially in which the justice mechanism works very wrongly, but it is our duty to reduce the workload of the judiciary, although it is the duty of all of us to ensure better functioning of the judicial body, access to justice, and the separate legal provisions that are being made to ensure fair trial are not only affecting the whole, but also serious discussions. The same is true of the Law on Compromises in Laws. Negotiation, such as reducing the burden of judgment, or accelerating judgment, is not a system that can function without serious judicial reform. The amendments to the law without democratic judicial reform will be no more than temporary regulations. Such regulations will only deepen the current problems. Members of the judiciary must first believe that the intermediary process operates differently than the trial process and is more flexible. First, this method must be organized as an institution that prevents many discrepancies from going to trial, allowing the judiciary to work more smoothly. The arrangements for the appointment of special-trained lawyers as mediators on alternative solutions must be made, with clarity the role of lawyers in implementing alternative conflict solutions. It should also be noted that the system of intermediary is already being implemented according to the legislation in effect. Therefore, instead of a new and private law, the development of existing arrangements for reconciliation would be much more appropriate. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are required to have four years of license training to mediate the 21st Article (2) (b) of the 21st article, which regulates registration conditions. It's a huge mistake to be given the right to mediate to all four-year-old college graduates. People who will be involved in resolving conflicts that do not concern public order should first be disciplined by law. The training required for intermediary can be given to everyone, as in other substances, but law discipline cannot be given by a hundred hours of training, because law discipline is obtained not by learning the laws, but by learning how to apply them in a way that is for the benefit of society. To do that, you need to know both the social interest protected by the fundamental laws and the basic philosophy of law and the sociology of law. Therefore, it would be a healthier approach for mediation to be specific to lawyers who have been trained in mediation techniques. It's important to say that, in accordance with the relevant legislation, lawyers are already acting as intermediaries. I would like to give examples of the role of intermediary, in practical terms of our legislation: Article 35/A of the Law of Law is an example of the method of bilateral discussion among alternative noncompromising solutions. According to this clause, lawyers have the authority to invite the opposing party to compromise on matters that the parties can conclude with their own will. Article 35/A of the Law on Attorneyship 1136, entitled "Construction Safe," "Agents may invite the other side to compromise with their clients on the condition that the parties may be willing to take matters into their own hands in jobs and cases that have been brought before the trial has begun. If the opposition responds to this invitation and compromise is reached, it will be co-signed by lawyers and their clients, including the matter of reconciliation, its location, its history, and the issues they should meet. These reports are a provision of Article 38 of Article No. 2004, dated 09/06/ 1932 and referred to as Article 38 of the Law on Institution and Bankruption." It contains judgment. In order for this clause to be implemented, they must be willing to agree that the parties who are at odds should be represented through their lawyers and to resolve conflict issues through their lawyers, but since they do not have the capacity to represent the lawyer in our country, they often prefer conflict to be brought to court without allowing two lawyers to come together. Since lawyers have to act according to their clients' instructions, it is not possible for lawyers to agree to such a settlement without the consent of their clients. So lawyers have a duty to reach a compromise that depends on the wishes of the parties. It's probably the most important reason why it's optional, that the power given to lawyers can't be used. The Compromising Law Bill of Laws in Compromising Laws also makes it optional to go to the finder. For the same reason, we believe the mediation agency will fail. A number of discrepancies can be solved without going to trial, even if it is not for every case, but for certain cases. Negotiation without the obligation to represent lawyers will not have a positive effect, neither will the powers of lawyers to reach a compromise, but the obligation to hire an attorney is also considered a limitation of freedom of rights from some environments. It is also possible to avoid the burden of a higher attorney's fee that the obligation to hire an attorney will bring on those who are employed in all European countries, other than Europe, in all developed countries, but in our country, it is under legal protection insurance that has not yet been implemented. Legal protection insurance provides a guarantee that lawyers do not risk losing their legal fees on this insurance, as long as it allows them to receive legal services in exchange for long-term insurance premiums. As a result, the effective use of lawyers' powers of reconciliation depends on the introduction of an obligation to hire an attorney and the establishment of legal protection insurance to ensure that the obligation to hire an attorney does not affect the underprivileged citizen. Without these being done, the intermediary activity, which will be carried out optionally, will not have a positive impact on our legal system. The amendment to the Penal Code at the end of 2006 led to the possibility of a settlement of the problem by compromise in some crimes in the process of investigation or prosecution. The third joke of Article 166 of the Turkish Civil Law allows for at least one year of arranged marriages to be divorced. In practice, it is usually carried out by lawyer to present the spouses to the court by drafting a text of an agreement containing all the terms of the agreement. In this field, lawyers are very often intermediary. Mr. President, these three applications I'm talking about are being carried out by lawyers, there's nothing wrong with that. Therefore, mediating services in legal conflicts must be carried out by experienced lawyers, barrooms and the Turkish Bar Association. Another important point is that it is possible to institutionalise mediation through lawyers. Only law-school graduates and lawyers should be able to negotiate. The agreement the mediator will organise is also required to submit a plea to the executive court on its ability to perform such a request by a lawyer and through a lawyer to be presented and monitored. Another problem with the bill is that mediation is organised as a direct Justice Ministry institution. In such a case, it will not be possible to discuss the independence of this institution. Organising and training must be carried out within the Union of Turkish Bars and Bars. The bill is defined as a solution to conflict, but basically it's not a quick resolution of conflicts, no matter what it is, it's a quick resolution, it's a way to satisfy the sense of law and justice, it's a way of dealing with similar conflicts, so it's a way to ensure social order. Again, the bill envisions the trade of intermediary for non-lawless people. When new law schools are constantly opening in our country, the reason for such practice should be questioned. Basically, regulation and law education and the profession of law practice are despised, ordinary, while rights and justice distribution are taken from lawyers and left to other hands. On the other hand, intermediary also violates constitutional principles that the jurisdiction will be used by independent courts on behalf of the nation. Law-related transactions should not be considered a commercial tool. We believe that opening the way for commercialisation of legal transactions will be extremely problematic by providing intermediary certificates. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are equipped with reasons that sound good, such as the bill, ease the burden of the judiciary, speed up judicial proceedings, but should not be forgotten that the bill's legislation will bring with it serious difficulties. If the bill passes as it is, regardless of criticism, it will open the way for an alternative structure to independent and neutral courts. This is used by independent courts in the name of the Turkish Nation as stated in Article 9 of the Constitution. There is a clear constitutional violation in this sense. In many European countries, it is true that the method of mediation is used as a problem-solving method. First of all, it is true that since the 2000s, many European countries have begun to use the intermediary institution as a method of solving legal problems, but the important thing to remember is that each law belongs to its own people. Each country has its own unique social reality and legal system. In this regard, the Charter of the Intermediation Institution shall be made in harmony with the legal system of our country. One of the main reasons for increasing the workload of the courts is the fact that there are discrepancies in matters that are too trivial to be brought to court. Resolved before resorting to judicial measures will prevent parties from entering unnecessary judicial costs and courts from wasting their time on much more important matters. It is suggested that the establishment of the intermediary establishment in our country is urgently needed for these reasons. The most critical aspect of this bill, designed to satisfy this need, is that lawyers are not given the necessary importance and that the institution of mediation is created without autonomy at the disposal of a bureaucratic organization. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the bill is not clear on the issue of discrepancies the negotiators will be looking at. In time, the decision of mediators on matters involving public order may eliminate the judiciary in matters that require expertise. In addition, lack of judicial supervision will prevent us from seeing whether the decisions made are contrary to the constitution, the laws, the established convictions of independent judicial bodies. Article 13 of the bill states that the mediator can also be applied for during the trial. According to Articles 139 and 140 of the Law Act 6100 under way, the judge must urge the parties to be peaceful during the preliminary review hearing, to hold a report on the issues they agreed and disagreed on, and to continue to judge according to this protocol. Therefore, the court, which will have to legally invite the parties to be peacekeepers, may also have to encourage mediation, prolong trial in courts, and allow some judges to view mediation as a release from the files in order to get rid of the heavy file load. It may also have severe consequences, such as the privatisation of the judiciary, due to the fact that the trials in the courts are being referred to mediators and that the mediation will be subject to a fee. Therefore, the sentence concerning the application to the mediator during the trial must be removed from the clause concerning the incentive of the judge to mediate. The period of the application to the mediator in the second joke has been extended according to the current conditions of communication. This period must be held as two weeks, as is arranged in many articles of Law Code No. 6100. The place to conduct and supervise the intermediary activity must be done as far away and as independently as possible from bureaucracy. First, the negotiating board must be formed within the Turkish Bar Association, instead of the head of the general administration and office, which is planned to be formed within the Ministry of Justice. The agency's presidency should be appointed to the intermediary board to be formed within the Turkish Bar Association. Other rooms and organisations need to be organized to co-operate in matters that can contribute to the intermediary activity. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, it seems that this bill is trying to create a profession that we might call the trade of intermediary, but law and justice are the most valuable treasures of a country, and we need to take it seriously. In this regard, the bill must be reorganised under the value of the profession of law, making the mediation institution a right- and justice-distributing institution. I hereby salute you all again. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0096par0238	Thank you. Omer Süha Aldan, MP for the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0097par0241	Mr. President, I'm here to discuss the general draft on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the Bill of the Companies Law on Law Number 233. I salute you all. In fact, we experienced the most striking example of this bill in Italy. As members of the Commission, we organized trips to the United States, Italy, England, and Austria. I was in the group that went to Italy. The Italian Minister of Justice has asked foreign companies about this legal arrangement, which is related to mediation, and we took it into our legal system for him. The second example was the response given by a senator in the Italian Senate, who said: "The law of Rome is the principal source of universal law. By accepting mediation, we denied our understanding of 2,000 years of law. Intermediation is not really an alternative way of dealing with conflict. Negotiation is really an alternative legal method, and it's one of the ways to start multi-law. In fact, during the debates on the Commission, the multi-lawyness of the committees, cults, or some of the religious elements will prevail. Such approaches have been proposed, but my opinion on the matter is more universal. Once global capital creates its own unique law in the world. This entire arrangement is one of the constraints of global capital. I know that a lot of our friends from the Justice and Development Party are also concerned about this and the legal arrangements like this, and they have sometimes expressed some concerns to us, but the fact is that the world is rapidly becoming a world run by corporations. The monopoly capital also strives to dominate national law with its own companies. This is the basis of the terrorism financing bill, and that is the basis of the state secret bill. The same is the basis of the law on intermediary. It is imposed on actors involved in civil law through certain legal regulations, especially through professors. A number of international relations are established and are very good at these legal arrangements. My dear friends, in fact, in the Turkish nation's own tradition, there's already an understanding of conciliation. The prominent people of the neighborhood, imams, teachers, have been able to clear up the discrepancies that have arisen from time to time. Although intermediary may be based on a legal arrangement in communities dominated by individualism, I don't think there's any need for such mediation in places like Turkey, where the feudal understanding, the social structure, the nation's sensitivity is more preeminent. My dear friends, the Compromise of Reconstruction Law has been brought to the attention for reasons that seem like reducing the burden of the judiciary, accelerating the judiciary. However, we are concerned that the bill could lead to an alternative and direct judicial system that depends on independent and neutral courts, because we see that the Justice Department is in charge of everything from the control of the mediation activity and the training of the mediators to their exams. It's not hard to imagine that the midterms of mediation will also be subject to the choice of supporters, since we have experienced the political and biased elections of the Justice Department's judge exams. The bill states that there is a method used by the mediation system in many European countries. It has also been observed that this system has been implemented in some European countries since the 2000s but has not been popularized and has not been accepted by society. Lawyers serving as mediators in England have stated that this system is more applied to consumer rights. There are already consumer arbitration committees in our law, but consumer arbitration committees are institutions that are very clear about their functioning and rules, which are carried out in accordance with the principle of commonity and can be contested against their decisions. So consumer arbitration committees have nothing to do with this bill's mediation. Because of each society's own sensitivities and social problems, the meaning of the mediation system will have good results in every society should not be taken out in any way. The Article 35/A of the Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Peace and Law on Justice and Bars is also a false attempt to establish a compromise system. On the other hand, the bill is used by independent courts on behalf of the Turkish Nation, which is stated in Article 9 of the Constitution. Instead of independent courts using judicial authority on behalf of the Turkish nation, the mandate of mediators to resolve problems among citizens could lead to the exclusion of the courts and the legal system. Although the bill cannot be carried out by the arbitrator on 15/4 me, it is said that the process of intermediary can not be done by the judge. (It is said that the mediator conducts medialization, considering the nature of conflict, the demands of parties and the procedures needed to be resolved quickly. Moreover, after the mediation talks, the parties can also receive a warrant from the court, which can be carried out if they want to. As you can see from all of this, mediation is actually a judicial activity within the framework of the procedure set by the parties. The first article, which determines the scope of the bill, envisions that it is possible to seek mediation in private law disputes stemming from the work and transactions they can freely save on the parties. In this case, women, especially husbands, fathers, can be referred to a mediator by pressure from the network. As a result of a non-disclosure study, the woman can be signed in writing that her child has given up custody, right to talk, compensation, and marital property sharing. These signed statements can result in severe loss of rights by the judge, and in context, when the entity's driver's license is not controlled by the deficiencies of will. For example, will it be sufficient to maintain the inheritance share of the daughters and the spouses who are already having problems with women's equal share in the inheritance, if reconciliation is valid in the law of inheritance? Or are women going to have to sign the papers under moral duress? Our hesitations in this matter are not inconclusive. In Canada and Britain, the process of implementing Sharia laws in mediating activities has been established, but the practice shows that women have suffered severe loss of rights. Still, economically powerless workers may be forced to seek a mediator with spiritual pressure, and thus loss of rights may be involved. For these reasons, the motion that intermediary activities in Article 1 should not be applied in the legal relations of the public order is unfortunately rejected in accordance with the Turkish Civil Code and the Labour Law. Perhaps the most objectionable clause of this bill is the fourth article that regulates the act of mediation in accordance with the rules of secrecy. Under this clause, the mediator will conduct his transactions in secrecy, contrary to the principle of commonality, according to the procedure the parties requested. In this case, it is also possible when the parties are under neighborhood pressure, and they want to be resolved according to the rules of the mafia. Because it's not possible to oversee this covert activity. And that's what we'll be able to come up with in the alternative Qaeda system. Prof. Dr. Bake Kuru agrees. It states that secrecy is unnecessary, that as a result, the inconsistencies that are held may be presented to the courts, otherwise an alternative authority will be neglected, not aiding the courts. In addition, in violation of the confidentiality code, a prison sentence can be imposed for up to six months under Article 33. There's no justification for the confidentiality rule that could lead to these consequences. Therefore, we have been denied the dissolution of the confidentiality code and our recommendation that the agreement made in the mediation talks will not be linked to sides, as it was in the 188/3 agreement of the Law Code of Law. Again, the title of Article 9 of the very important clause of this bill is referred to by the mediator as "Responsibility of the mission in Carefulness and Neutral Formation." And what happens when the mediator does not do his duty objectively, when he does not observe the equality of the parties, and when he suppresses his duties, when he does so against the will of the parties? What's the sanction? There is no regulation in the bill. Our questions on this matter have been answered by the Justice and Development Party spokesman in the Commission that the mediator will be punished according to general provisions. There's a lot of lawyers here. Somebody tell me, please. To what will a mediator who does not perform his duty objectively be punished? Well, folks, there's no law against that kind of verb. With this bill, you give the mediator great responsibilities, but if he abuses his authority, you do not apply any sanctions. Such an approach cannot be such an understanding. In other examples of the country being observed...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0098par0265	In general terms...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0097par0266	There is no regulation in the general provisions... for the trial of the mediator in the Turkish Penal Code. And there's no regulation that the negotiator is a public servant. Other examples of the other countries observed include the control of the mediators by their vocational rooms, while the bill does not have a reference to it. For example, it is not possible for a mediator, a lawyer, to be punished as a lawyer for the crime he committed for mediating activity or to be subjected to the control of the baron. Here is our motion to punish the Turkish Penal Code for abuse of authority under Article 257, and to protect it as a public official for crimes committed during its mandate, and our motion for compensation for the damage of the mediator has been rejected in the Commission. However, though many lawyers have suggested that an arrangement and a gap should be filled, that the methods of punishment would be insufficient according to general provisions, the majority of the Justice Commission has rejected all proposals with a faulty approach. I'd like to give you another example: If the negotiator gains too much financial benefit from one of the parties, he should be tried as a public servant, or even punished for bribery, but there is no regulation. The bill was adopted on the subcommittee for the end of intermediary activity if a crime was encountered during the intermediary activity. However, one of the most important problems here is that when one of the parties withdraws from the talks or leaves the negotiating post, it is difficult to document the situation and get the signatures of the parties, because with the start of the intermediary activity, the period of denominating and the statute of limitations has stopped. In this case, it is very important to determine the date of the end of the operation. In order to address this challenge, a statement from the intermediary must be held in case the parties fail to sign the report in 15 days despite the written notification. Our motion on this matter must be taken into account and this deficiency must be met. Article 18 of the bill has been ordered to bring the agreements to the judge by side and to give the behest of execution. The judge will review and approve this report only in terms of whether the parties have a right to freely save and if they are fit to perform. So the main thing is that the judge can't do a review of the evidence or a review of legal interests. With no objection or legal evidence against the document issued in Article 18 of the Article 18, the decision of the group has been made that it is possible to take a stand against this decision. However, as it is known, the court of law is not yet dry. Therefore, there must be a temporary clause that says the decision can be appealed until the indictment courts are set up. Otherwise, there will be serious hesitations in the application. One of the most critical issues in the bill is that the mediators are completely dependent on the Ministry of Justice and directly dependent on the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, our motion to determine the rules of trade by the Council of Mediators instead of the Ministry of Justice, to delete education, registration, and to apply for judicial action against decisions has not been approved by the Commission. However, the Commission and the majority of jurisprudences have voiced concerns that mediators depend on the Ministry of Justice, where an alternative judicial network is being criticised by the Ministry of Justice. On the other hand, all our proposals for the formation of the Council of Negotiators have been rejected from among members of the Council, to reduce the activity of the Justice Department bureaucrats, to bring the representatives they will choose from themselves to a more democratic structure. The bill of the Interrogation Act on Law Incompatibility -- as stated in its requirements -- aims not to find the right and the right, but to end conflicts under any circumstances. This understanding could undermine the sense of justice in society. Due to the limited control of the judge on the treaty document, the proposal involves the possibility of becoming an ethnic and religious foundation that can expose the weak and multi-legal formations or an arrangement that can lead to the rule of the Mafia. At this point during our trip to Italy, when we asked the authorities about the mediation in Italy, they had nothing to say when we brought it up to the Mafia. Indeed, the intermediary agency is capable of revamping the construction of that ancient Czech bond mafia in Turkey. I'd also like to point out that it's very possible that an alternative law structure in the southeast of our country would be legalized by this legal arrangement. In a number of cases, an organizational initiative in resolving discrepancies will now be able to gain a legal reputation. You're also paying attention to these issues, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0099par0275	Thank you. Now, it's Mehmet Shandır, Mersin MP who wants to speak for himself. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0100par0279	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Ladies and gentlemen of Congress, it's not nice to have a settlement broken, but it's not right to get angry and break a compromise like this right now. We meet an important law, we form an important institution. I know that the commission has been seriously studied, contributed. In this regard, our group, the Justice Commission member, has also made a decision to ensure that they contribute to our friends with such special services. We're building an important institution. An important institution is being established by acting earlier than many European countries. The person who thinks about it... of course, the reason why it's written is that, at the request of the European Union, there's a priority to establishing such an institution, to establishing a law. In fact, there's no point in saying it, even if it's the truth. It's in our culture, in our civilization; it's in our faith, it's in our lives. So, this intermediary incident is not the European demand, it's not the law, it's our own self-worth. It's important to talk about how he hasn't entered the judicial system, the judicial system, by now. That's our value. We didn't have to go to the women to solve problems, we had a lot of intermediaries before the lady. At this time, it's the neighborhood's master, the neighborhood's master, the neighborhood's boss, or even the neighborhood's bully. We come from a culture, a belief that solves problems between individuals without leading them to a woman. So the intermediary process is our own belief value, our own culture value. That's what my friends at the Justice Commission came up with in their research at this point. So we're setting up an institution that's late, which we think is too late. At this point, it would have been nice if we had discussed it in the General Assembly, cross-examined it, discussed it, contributed to it. I think it's unfortunate that Mr. Elitas has broken this agreement and rushed this law here today because many of our speaker friends are not here. Mr. Faruk Bal, the expert on this subject, had also prepared for a special study, a special effort, but we will not see each other today, as we call it, on another program. So, you know, even though I wasn't really prepared, we had to come here and talk. Dear friends, the subject of mediation, as I just said, is a very valuable institution of our culture, our community life, our social life, a lot of work, a lot of function, a lot of work. I care about building the law of this, and I thank everyone who contributes. So, Mr. Secretary, after these talks, he's going to make a very revealing, informative speech, but I think it's important to say that the negotiator is not a compromiser, but an event of intermediary. In order to find a solution, to find a solution, to eliminate conflict, conflict, conflict, to achieve a voluntary compromise with or by the opinion of the parties, to achieve a compromise that leads to legitimacy, to create a finder's solution, to create an intermediary, not an intermediary. There is no Minister of Justice, Mr. Hajji.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0101par0287	Here, here...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0102par0288	There's no Minister of Justice, there's no Commissioner, there's no Vice President, there's no majority of members of the Commission.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0100par0289	What are we going to do with you? So you don't have a commissioner, your Minister of Justice is coming and going. What the hell are we gonna do?
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0103par0290	He was just here.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0100par0291	Ünal Kaçir, what are we going to do about this? I mean, we care so much, care so much, praise so much...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0104par0292	He's here. He's here.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0100par0293	Thank you, dear fellow, and welcome. Now, dear friends, from what I've read in this short period of time -- and this culture, I know this is a social value, our value of faith, I know the importance of this establishment -- what I find lacking is that intermediary shouldn't be a department chair at the Ministry of Justice. You reduce the nature of the matter, you reduce the depth. This must be an autonomous institution, the institution. So we need to establish a serious institution that will solve the problems between citizens by building a sentence, by building a sentence, by building a solution, before they go to court, before they go to the police. This institution shouldn't be a government institution. He shouldn't be at the disposal of politics. Politics shouldn't be contagious. Because the rules of this institution, the sentence of judgment, the parties have to believe it, trust it. This must ensure justice and peace. To do that, this institution has to be autonomous, independent. It is vital that his decision can be trusted to ensure peace. So we need to set this up as a culture norm, not a law norm, Mr. Kubat. So we had to build this institution as a loser. It's in our culture, it's in the Ottomans, it's in our ancestors. When I was young, I even had it when I was a kid. I mean, he'd be the master of the neighborhood, he'd be the master of the neighborhood, he'd be the master of the neighborhood, he'd be the boss, he'd be the jerk, he'd be the problem solver first, he'd go to court if it didn't end here. Now we're building an institution like this. We have no obligation to establish an institution in accordance with the norms of the European Union. We need to establish a proper institution. So we need to establish an independent, impartial, reliable institution, like the judiciary, not to be audited by the head of an agency within the Justice Department. There was this opportunity, and I don't think this opportunity has been missed, but it can be done, dear friends. In other words, dear Minister, I'll be asking questions in a moment. If we were to classify the cases that are busy today, you'd see that there's a conflict between the state and the citizen, let's call it a private legal area. This is where I tell the valued members of the Justice Commission, the valued jurists. So we're setting up a mediation agency to resolve conflict between the state and the citizen, but what's the institution that's going to solve conflict between the state and the citizen? Dear friends, there comes a time when our government becomes a government of persecution, oppresses its citizens; it is strong because it cannot afford a citizen. Then it would be too short, Minister, if a compromise between the state and the citizen could not be found to resolve the disputes. This institution would be too short, too flashy. Now, for example - Mr. Minister is here, Mr. Veysel Eroglu Hoxha is here -- the deed is cancelled... I'm out of time. It's a government deed to a citizen. Three days later, he left, an officer on behalf of the state, and here's our director General of the Forest -- a woodsman gone, canceled the deed.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0105par0301	The court called it off.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0100par0302	The court called it off, but I mean, on behalf of the government, it's a mistrial against the officer. Now, that's unfair, that's not a right. Were you wrong when you gave me the deed or were you right when you canceled it? Now, there are so many cases in the courts at this point that there are so many cases that make citizens and state not kin but enemies... that we insisted, we insisted, come to the law 2/B, and let's solve this, and we'll make these conflicts a liquidation law. But now, if we're going to start a dating agency... we need to establish an institution, an institution, an autonomous institution; we need to build a state structure, we need to build a government institution. We need to establish a compromise agency to resolve the disputes between this citizen and this citizen's state. If we don't, it'll be incomplete, dear friends. We, the National Movement Party, in spite of everything, wish this law to bring good results to our judicial system, our citizens, our state, our Parliament, our Parliament, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0106par0305	Thank you. Ramadan Can, Kırıkkale MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0107par0309	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, on 26/5/2008, this bill was referred to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as the draft of the Law on Reconstructions in Laws of Reconstructions, but remained. A bill on the agenda of the House has been revived. Now, here, especially when it's called the Conspiracy Bill of Legislatives, we also accept the fact that, as a member of the Justice Commission, friends representing the Republican People's Party, representing the National Party, especially us, have hesitated because we are strangers to the mediation institution. The truth is, we tried to have an opinion without knowledge, we had second thoughts. We didn't know which conflicts the negotiator was going to stab, mediate, or mediate material law. At this point, our Department of Justice's work has been really good. Our bureaucratic friends worked well, too. Our Ministry of Justice is really compared to what is the legal situation in this matter, what is not the case -- our fellow members of the Commission -- what is the situation in Italy, Germany, Britain, the United States, and what is not the situation on the international platform in the mediation, and what is not the situation, and what is not the situation on the international platform, and what has not been observed. We've acquired important information and experience. I'd like to start with a question about what intermediary is, what intermediary will solve. The mediator is not an official institution that exists in our practice, in our lives, and in our past. For example, in disputes between spouses, spouses go to their father-in-law, mother-in-law, or closer to their friends, in case there's a conflict between spouses. On the other hand, in trade relations, even in disputes in which to pay, it's a sort of intermediary when you go to the head of the property of that place, the governor, the governor, the idea leaders, but we need to make this intermediary institutional. Many things have been mentioned, it has been said that when intermediary begins to resolve conflicts, my middleman will ease the burden of judgment. It's a situation in which our society really needs to settle down in our legal system, in terms of how the parties can solve the conflict without reasoning, without going to trial, without going to trial, without going to trial. As a matter of fact, the Constitution, titled access to justice, has made it a right to access to justice in Article 36 of our Constitution, and Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Given our commitment to international contracts, I believe that Turkey should be involved in this process as well as in other countries in the comparative law, and that we should place the intermediary institution as in Europe, as in the world's various countries. As a matter of fact, if I have time to give examples of law, we see that this establishment is settled in Syria, Greece, Sudan, even in third world countries. So, what's intermediary? It is a method of conflict that brings sides together to talk and negotiate, to communicate with each other in order to make them understand each other and to produce their own solutions -- an independent, neutral third person's contribution, willing, and functioning as an elder. Mr. Şandir, our deputy chairman of the MHP Group, also mentioned here, but he said that there is a situation where he will make a finder's decision. • He will not make a decision; he will not make a decision; he will not put the mediators together; he will use systematic methods to help the parties resolve the conflict, develop dialogue, develop compromise culture, to create a contract in the direction of the wills of the parties. If a conflict is resolved that leads to mediation, the mediator does not make a decision here; the mediators have an agreement, a contract, a contract, the Law of Debts. If the parties want to, they can give this contract the title of admissible document with the word "imposeability." Of course, there's a debate here, but there's a distinction between the property of the warrant and the warrant. One of the biggest problems with intermediary is the hesitation: What conflict is the conflict? This is very important, folks. He arranges this: 1927 Supreme Court practices, the conflict between the parties according to the established verdicts, jobs and procedures that the parties can freely save on. What does that mean? This means that, in other words, we can call it non-committee conflicts, and on the other hand, the most concrete of all of the conflicts in the law conflicts, in the courts, that the parties can deal with without the judge's initiative through the peace. Sir, what happens if the divorce law gets involved? What happens if business law gets involved? What happens if the inheritance law gets involved? What I'm saying is that the public order issues are not going to be involved. I'd like to say something about a signed divorce: Number 3444, which was added to the Civil Law in 1987, was agreed upon into our legal system, and the divorce was facilitated. Here, it's got to be a year from now. The parties need to agree on the terms of the marriage, and the judge needs to listen to the parties personally, not personally, but personally, to the MPs. So, the judge listened to all this, and the terms came up, so does he have to decide to get a divorce, judge? Not at all. So this is what we call the public order. I'm keeping the terms of the prenup divorce separate, and the prenup divorce won't get in the middleman's business because of public order. On the other hand, the activities of the mediator do not require a material judgment. The intermediary isn't doing a judicial procedure. As a result, the negotiator can't listen to a witness, go to an expert witness, or explore because he doesn't practice material law. Well, even though intermediary does that... There's another discussion, and I want to go from here to there: the age of jurisdiction. The constitution has been claimed to be against the Constitution. The age of judicial authority is not right because material law is not enforced, not judicial action. On the other hand, I'd like to give you an example: there's an irregular accident in law disputes -- our lawyer friends know. Uncompromising accident, you know, non-controversial judgment. The non-controversial judicial precaution is not an administrative procedure, but it is done by the judge because it is a precautionary measure, it is a precautionary measure, it is permitted to get married, it is a building permit, it is an administrative procedure, it is not an administrative procedure because all of this is based on a preconceived procedure, but it is done by the judge. Therefore, not every procedure the judge has done is judicial. As we have seen in consumer arbitration committees, the decision made by consumer referees was taken to the Constitutional Court through concrete norm control. The Constitutional Court saw it as one of the alternative solutions in its decision and said that it did not accept any objections under concrete norm control, as it was most swift, with the most swift movement, with no expense intended to resolve the conflict. Thus, in an environment given by notaries of veracetin, it is not legal to view the actions of the mediators here as a judicial activity. Mr. President, the negotiator considers different solutions that can be achieved based on the concrete situation, if the parties communicate with each other and understand their interests and common interests to improve them, see the legal situation, see the consequences that could be achieved if their strong and vulnerable points are resolved. He's a finder's man. If one of the parties who went to the mediator sees a situation of distress, he might be able to cut off the media activity there. Therefore, it is impossible to force anyone into a mediator. The finder has to be neutral. The finder does not apply financial law. The question of how will the mediator resolve these conflicts? There is a technical term for the solutions of the systemic solutions. According to the situation of the issue, if there was a financial trial here, it would explain the benefits of a citizen going from both cost and the length of the judicial process to a mediator. If they resolve this conflict, they will also contribute to social peace. In a sense, the current bill, which will be assigned to law school graduates and those who serve in the five-year field, is passed through the subcommittee and evaluated in the upper commission. Some friends of ours have declared that the road should be given to those who have not graduated from law school here. She can join him. But since this is considered judicial activity in our country, there are major tasks for the bar to be established in this sense. It's a transitional process. In the future... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yes, Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0108par0327	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0109par0328	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0108par0329	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0109par0330	Mr. President, we have a request for a statement according to 60. In the matter of that tea earlier, I wasn't here because I went to a martyr's funeral, to make a correction...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0108par0331	Congressman, you've already had an unrelated conversation, and we've allowed it here. Now, it's not right to bring up something that has nothing to do with it again. There will be a 20-minute question-and-answer procedure. Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0110par0334	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I've just said in my speech, are you considering a mediation system between the state and the citizen, do you intend to establish such an institution? The second issue: What percentage of cases brought to trial are among the state and citizens, and what percentage of them are related to private people? And also, what's the difference between the mediation system and the arbitration process? Is it protected by this law? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0111par0339	Thank you. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0112par0341	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, the fact that Sadullah Ergin came before this Assembly as Minister of Justice is not acceptable to this Assembly, for justice has destroyed its establishment in Turkey, destroyed its trust in justice, destroyed the judiciary. So, as a congressman, I can't say what needs to be said because I don't feel a judicial assurance. I ask him a question: have you found a court at the lighthouse to exonerate him, Recep Erdogan, and his relatives? What is this place? The other day you went with a group of fellow journalists, you visited Silivri Prison, you liked it very much. Do you and those reporters want to sleep there? That's it, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0113par0346	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0114par0347	Thank you, Mayor. If the negotiators are allowed to be lawyers and lawyers who have earned the right to be lawyers, then does the Justice Department need to train to mediate and form an office chair? Question 2: Does intermediary work require training and examinations for lawmakers, since there is no more difficult activity than the practice of law enforcement? Question 3: If the lawyer does not need training and exams, would it not be more appropriate for him to have a special intermediary record in the eyes of the Justice Commission, or in the eyes of the bar, rather than a record in the Ministry of Justice? Question 4: If intermediary is an institution aimed at reducing the burden of courts, shouldn't the state pay the arbitration fee itself to reduce the burden of courts? Question 5: Is there a country that is successful in the countries in which mediation is implemented?
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0115par0353	Thank you. Mr. Agha, come in.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0116par0355	Mr. Secretary, you've recently visited Silivri Prison with members of the press. There have been various statements, how well the doctor has served, how well the conditions are... so I've been to Silivri Prison many times, and I've talked to the prisoners who are staying there, especially -- we have two MPs there -- Mr Mustafa Balbay and Mehmet Haberal. There, in Silivri Prison, they say the water doesn't run for 15 hours, they do what they need according to the water. Also, all the prisoners there say that food is being washed -- I'm paying attention -- is being eaten -- and a different presentation is being made, a prison advert is being made. Of course, some of those who have done this prison ad in the past years can now go in from time to time; law, injustice, you never know who it's going to hit. They're very uncomfortable with these prison conditions, especially isolation. Lockdown...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0115par0357	Thank you. Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0117par0359	Mr. Secretary, is there any statistical information in the Department of Justice on how much of the conflicts in countries such as the United States, Italy, Germany, where the mediation is being implemented? Is the Ministry of Justice aware that in these countries, despite the passing of years, the mediation system does not sit on the level that will contribute to the resolution of conflicts, to reducing the workload?
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0115par0360	Thank you. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0118par0362	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in the morning, when the Constitutional Commission discussed the Bill of Public Control, you said that the basis of this was from the Ottoman women's system of ombudsmanism. Now, you're bringing in intermediaries. So, is this the result of your desire for the Ottoman womanhood system? Secondly, there are financial rights for many personnel under Code 666, while the judges and prosecutors, members of the Supreme Court, first-class judges and prosecutors, are living in serious socioeconomic difficulties. Constitutional Court rapporteurs are being paid more than members of the Supreme Court today. In the country, the editor-in-chief is paid more than a newly appointed judge and prosecutor. Do you plan to make an adjustment? Third, there's ATGV, where your undersecretary is chaired by the Foundation for Enforcement of Justice. The purpose of this foundation, you know, is to meet the need for a judge and prosecutors' housing and the need for courthouse buildings... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let me finish this so it's very important.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0119par0368	Thank you. Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0120par0370	Mr. President, the most dangerous aspect of the mediation institution is the danger that the independent judiciary will lose its neutrality and independence if the mediation institution is tied to an office in the Justice Department. Other than that, a friend of mine has just stated that thousands of intellectuals and patriots and patriots and convicts in F-type prisons are not in a prison of the Republic of Turkey, they are lying in a prisoner home of an enemy country, they are living in isolation as if they were lying in their dungeons. When the F types first came out, we were against them. F-types didn't come out during your time, but they've been on the same regime for about ten years in your time. So all sorts of things have been a problem, sports problems, health problems, isolation issues, air conditioning problems, weekend problems... do you have any work on them? Those who are in a type F prison are given a second penalty by this charter. Justice for this amendment...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0119par0373	Thank you. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0121par0375	Mr. President, thank you. My question is, don't let our Minister of Justice get touchy, it's a local problem, it's a local problem. Twenty-five days ago, there was a Haberal Act. We also supported this Haberal Law. So we also have a strong opinion of today's law. As these laws go out, I also have to say that there are five brothers in Kozan district of Adana, who are readers, three of whom are in prison, because of a problem between themselves or someone else. Their mothers were at their mercy, eighty-five, ninety years old. Even though I reached out to my undersecretary, he said, "I'll be back." He didn't come back. I'm sorry I brought this up here. Now, I'm going to tell these guys that the Kozan Public Prosecutor, the Chief Constable...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0122par0380	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0123par0382	Thank you, Mr. President. 1) Mr. Secretary, what kinds of issues or crimes do you aim to resolve your solution through intermediaries? What kind of guarantee do negotiators have here? 2) How many of our citizens are still in prison for violation of their commitment? Does your Ministry work on the solution to the problems of our citizens who are on the run and unable to come into their homes so as not to go to prison? What's his status if he's got one? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0124par0386	Thank you. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0125par0388	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Turkish Penal Code 765 was a criminal offense to obstruct the freedom of one's worship. Penal Code 5237, which entered into force during your rule, has organized it as a crime to block the right to mass worship instead of the person. The difference between these two is that the military units in particular contain sanctions for commanders who obstruct the military's worship, and now it is not considered a crime. Do you intend to change this clause of Turkish Penal Code 5237?
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0124par0390	Thank you. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0126par0392	Thank you, Mr. President. Mine's just an explanation. I couldn't answer because I was at the martyr's funeral. Now, there's something seriously wrong with tea here, and I tried to say it. So it doesn't matter if this tea is Artvin's origin or Rize's origin. The problem is the quota and the quota in the tea. People pour their tea on the streets, spill it on the streets, spill it on the roads. I've tried to explain it dramatically. If it's disrespectful to pour tea here on the floor of the House, if we're going to do that kind of description, it's important to think of this: if we're going to take the tea that's bought for $1.22 and sell it to the private sector for 65 cents, it's not disrespectful, but if that's the case, I'll leave it to the discretion of the High Assembly. I pay my respects, thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0127par0396	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0128par0398	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to remind the Minister of Justice that, unlike what's happening in front of the press, all the inmates in Silivri say they can't eat without washing the food, they say it's too oily. There is no diet food in Sincan Prison; in fact, the diabetes, the blood pressure patient, the liver patient, the same diet meal. He has to eat a diabetic potato, which is extremely dangerous for diabetics. In Sincan Prison, a patient named Kemal Gömi (Kemal) has received a report of schizophrenia 14 times and is still being held there, saying her age differently every time asked. A schizophrenic named Mesut Deniz (Mesud) can be diagnosed as....majör depression when applying for release. In addition, a patient named Surahr Tüyük has been using a drug that is definitely dangerous for more than a year in Hepatitis B. For the past six years because of the conditions there. I'd like to point out to you that there's an urgent need for a review of the wrong medications.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0129par0401	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0130par0403	Thank you, Mr. President. First, there was a question from Mr. Shandir: Is it considered to be an intermediary institution to resolve conflicts between the state and the citizen? Is there any study in this direction? In fact, in September 2011, there was a provision prepared by the Ministry of Finance on September 26, 2011, which was legalized by Code 659. In this arrangement, the administration will be tasked with an obligation to invite the court before pressing charges against judicial and administrative discrepancies and before they begin to pursue execution. See him first, invite him to the sultan, if you don't get results, start the surveillance, the judicial process, start the execution follow-up accordingly. It's a step, but in the sense you're talking about, it's not a suggestion that meets all expectations. Our general strategy is: We have a goal to develop alternative conflict solutions before incompatibleness reaches the courts, which is a single set goal in the Judiciary Reform Strategy Document. As part of this goal, the Anti-Controversy Bill, which we are meeting today, has been drafted and brought in. In addition, some work continues to be carried out in order to make the institution we call a conciliation more active. We've established a commission to resolve the disputes between the citizens and the public. The work of this commission will hopefully be brought before this General Assembly in the middle term. Another question by Mr. Shandir is, "What is the difference between a finder and a referee?" The judge, like the judge, decides who's right and who's wrong, as part of his mission. But the intercessor has no right to judge, nor has He any authority to decide. It's just a duty to bring the parties together, lay the groundwork for their compromises, contribute to their compromises, and connect this settlement to a report, a protocol. That's the difference between the two, Your Honor. The questions of the young man are not related to this bill. If I have time for questions that aren't relevant to the bill, I'll try to get in, or I'll try to answer them in writing. Mr. Tanal has tried to ask a lot of questions, and I've been able to take some notes for him, but if there's any missing, I'll look them up and try to answer you in writing. Since it will be made up of lawyers and law graduates, the intermediaries asked if it was right for the Ministry of Justice to teach for them. With the amendment to the bill, I believe the law schools have been authorized to provide mediation training. The Bars are able to provide this education, which is also part of the bill. The Academy of Justice has been given such an opportunity. Therefore, there is no study here that is in the monopoly of the Ministry of Justice. And then there was another question: do they need education? Mr. Tanal, education here is not technically legal training. We're law-school-educated lawyers who already have a rule of law. But here, in terms of negotiating techniques, it's an education in good practice examples, in the way that negotiators who are going to start this work, in some way, psychologically -- if necessary -- predicting the psychology of the parties -- or in the way that they're expected to benefit from the techniques of the world. In that sense, it contributes to the institution's initial progress. Because it's a new institution that we've created, and we think that if we're on a solid path when we start, the benefits that we're going to get will increase at a maximum rate. Isn't it better to keep a record with the bar? In fact, when you look at the 30th and 31st articles of the bill here, the Council is a body that has been following the work of the Office Chairman, giving him advice. There are Bar Associations in the formation of the board, NGOs, representatives of many civil societies. I think that's where it's going to come from. Mr. Tanal, this is all I can write down, and I'll try to answer in writing what I can't. Mr. Agha, again, they've raised a question about the prison. If you'll excuse me, I'll try to answer the questions about this law first, and if I have time, I'll try to get back to them. They asked a question, Mr. Kokturk, how much of the discrepancies are solved by the intermediary institution in countries that still have a mediation application? We don't have that kind of statistical data. We can't answer that from that angle. Mr. Original, you asked me a question about the public inspector, and it's not directly relevant to this bill again. If I have time for that, I'll try to get back. Mr. Köse has indicated that the inspection of the mediation agency by the head of a Justice Department would create doubt about its independence and prevent the mediator from working independently and impartially. Dear friends, mediation is an institution we're trying to bring to our legal system. Here, if we can look at the 31st and 32nd articles of the bill, we are predicting a board. This board will form a complex structure. There are bureaucrats from the Ministry of Justice, as well as three representatives from the Turkish Bar Association; there are representatives of the Notary Association of Turkey; here are representatives of the High School institutions; here are representatives of the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey; here are representatives of the trades and artists' rooms; here are from the Justice Academy. In addition to bureaucrats in the Ministry of Justice, a joint delegation of representatives of civil society and trade organisations is the one that will make all these important decisions, and the body that will guide the operations of the office's presidency with recommendations. In that respect, the control and direction of civil society and trade organisations is essential. In the future, when this institution sits down, maybe even more radically, it will be able to go to an autonomous structure, which is what you're talking about, a structure outside the Ministry. As the Department of Justice, we have no special desire, no desire, especially in keeping with the Ministry, to oversee those who will mediate private law conflicts. It's an institution based on volunteering, depending on the will of the parties. But that's how it's predicted that it's needed to set out on solid foundations, so that there won't be any problems with institutionalization. Hopefully, after becoming institutional, there's a chance that you're going towards autonomy in the sense that you're talking about. Other than that, one question from Mr. Halaman is that he's out of the picture again, but we'll see him in private again, hopefully. Mr. Light's question is, what conflicts can't be solved through intermediary? I'll try to put it in a few words. The discrepancies they can freely save on the sides, including those carrying the element of foreignism in private law, can be solved by the mediator. Other than that, all discrepancies in the field of private law can be solved by the mediator, such as public order or compensation.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0131par0421	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0130par0422	Compensation and any lawsuits can be solved by a finder's hand. Cases stemming from business law and consumer law can be taken to the mediator. Other than that, he won't be able to negotiate in matters of public order. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0132par0425	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I'll submit to your votes, but there's a roll call, and I'll do it. Mr. Tarhan? Here. Mr. Young? Here. Mr. Kokturk? Here. Mr. Original? Here. Mr. Tanal? Here. Mr. Kusoglu? Here. Mr. Köse? Here. Mr. Ozkes? Here. Mr. Pine? Here. Mr. Akar? Here. Mr. Horseman? Here. Your Highness? Here. Mr. Nazliaka? Here. Mr. Agha? Here. Mr. Flagtutan? Here. Mr. Kaleli? Here. Mr. Special? Here. Mr. Coach? Here. Mr. Özdemir? Here. Mr. Cetin? Here. Mr. Korutuk? Here. Mr. Ayata? Here. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Mr. Özkul? Mr. Erol? Here.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0133par0455	No.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit02spe0132par0456	Here, we see it. Congressmans, please... The AK PARTY lawmakers just did the same thing. Mr. Şengül? Mr. Zeybekci? Mr. Ayyüpoğlu? Here. Mr. Turkmenoglu? Mr. Kaçir? Here. Mr. Selamoglu? Here. Mr. Toughness? Mr. Nuts? Mr. Günay? Mr. Nice? Mr. Muezzinoglu? Mr. Whiteheart? Here. Mr. Unuvar? Here. Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit03spe0132par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 111st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The meeting was not enough in the roll call before the draft of Law Bill 233 was passed. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit03spe0134par0007	Mr. President, no one has attempted to access electronic devices by the opposition. Are they standing here virtually, or do they have images?
tbmm-2012-05-24sit03spe0135par0008	Sir, let them speak for themselves! So if they're trying to take revenge for what they can't find here, they're wrong.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit03spe0134par0009	Mr. President, according to 146, our MPs standing here are not allowed to enter the system...
tbmm-2012-05-24sit03spe0136par0010	If you'd like to sit down and talk quietly, be my guest.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit03spe0134par0011	Mr. President, according to 146, if they're not here virtually, MPs, if there's an object, you have to count them.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit03spe0137par0012	Sir, there is no such decree in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-05-24sit03spe0138par0013	We've already signed there, our signatures are there!
tbmm-2012-05-24sit03spe0139par0015	[[Investigation continued with electronic device]] Members of parliament, since the second roll call was not enough, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (May 29th 2012) to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of verbal question motions and draft and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
