tbmm-2012-11-10sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 20th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, today, as it is known, is the 74th anniversary of the death of the Great Leader Ataturk. I'd like to invite our General Assembly to a two-minute silence before the memory of the great Ataturk. [[Respect has been held]] May their souls rest in peace. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we also wish that today, unfortunately, our great nation, our armed forces, and their grieving families, will accept our condolences for our 17 soldiers who were martyrs in the crash of our military helicopter. Now again, we will pledge to every political party group in the building, which means today's anniversary of the arrival of the great Ataturk. Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu, Kayseri MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2012-11-10sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, where is the Speaker? He's not coming today, but what day will he come to this House?
tbmm-2012-11-10sit01spe0001par0016	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2012-11-10sit01spe0003par0019	Dear President, the esteemed MPs of the Turkish nation, I call upon the mercy of God to our 17 soldiers who were first killed in a helicopter crash, to be patient with the Turkish nation and their families. In the 74th year of his departure, we bless our republic's founder, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we need to see November 10th, under the roof of his greatest work, instead of sorrow and sorrow, as a day to find out what can be done in order to further the country's trail. That way, we can pay our debt of gratitude to him and his comrades. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the greatest hero of an epic salvation, is not only in the depths of history, but in the heart and heart of the great Turkish nation. Our love and respect for Ataturk will continue as long as there is a world. We need to best explain and teach our young ones the services he has done for his country. We must tell you that the battle for salvation, which has been won in great difficulties, and the republic that has been founded, will be well understood. When we look at his life, we see that an important period of his life has always been fought by wars and defences of the country. At the Battle of Tripoli (1911-1912), at the Battle of the Balkans in 1912-1913, at the Battle of Çanakkale in 1916-16, at the Caucasian front in 1916-17, at the Sinai and Palestine front in 1917-18, and at last, in 1919-23, at the Battle of Liberation, at the Battle of Independence. Ataturk, who spent almost every period of his life on the frontlines, never considered his personal interest, saw it as the only way to act only in the interests of the nation, dedicated to the struggle for independence of the Turkish nation. Ataturk has been the true leader of the Turkish nation since his arrival in Samsun. From now on, he will be able to work as he pleases and take on the work of a free commander for the survival of the Turkish people. Although he had to remove even his uniform with dignity from his childhood, despite any difficulty and pressure to depose his occupational forces, the struggle has not lost its soul, but has joined with its people, who have made great sacrifices for it. His unwavering faith in the country's salvation has freed the Turkish nation from the grips of imperialist forces, against those who advocate under the American buffalo and call the national struggle an adventure. With the unacceptable betrayals of those who signed Sevr, which allowed the Turkish army to be disbarred from arms, and in response to all sorts of impossibilities, the nation's determination and decision to resist has been achieved. According to his will, those who serve for the national purpose must have faith and integrity, ready to face any danger that may come their way. In order to achieve success, the national movement was seen primarily as a condition for the beginning of the movement in the minds, in the hearts, and for people to be bound to it with faith, and only when it comes to it, to take its place in the national movement, to achieve the highest success of the mission and service. With that understanding, the enemy has been expelled from the country. On October 29, 1923, the period following the declaration of the republic was an enthusiastic event and a period of rebirth. In view of the spiritual portrait of Ataturk (Ataturk) here, we face a picture of a major change, especially of modern science in teaching, where the gates of the country are weighted down to the Western technique, where Swiss civil law and Italian criminal law and Latin letters are accepted, with many social and cultural institutions in line with European examples, and with the establishment of many educational and art institutions, such as change in clothing. The final goal of these phases is to bring the country to the top of the troubled civilisations, according to an elaborate plan. In his great speech, he put it this way: "Sirs, with this statement, I have tried to express how a great nation, considered to have found a national life, gained its sovereignty and established a sovereign state of science and science on the very last foundations of science and science. " To understand Ataturk is to practice his ideas very well. The formation of the state of the Republic of Turkey is about to be rewritten for an era. Ataturk, who led the Turkish nation, who had never lost the fire of independence, sighed under siege all over the country, deserves to be the architect of the greatest war of independence in history where faith in the pages of history has been transformed into victory. To understand and apply his principles is to understand and practice the principles of Ataturk. Ataturk, who made his people the sole owner of the country's administration, and who gave the country's resources to the service of the nation, has made him a deeply loving leader of the nation and the nation. November 10th is a time when a whole nation cries at the same time, sad at the same time, remembers a person at the same time. Mustapha Kemal Ataturk, who fought with his heart and soul to free the great Turkish nation from its plight and earned good grades and victories in our glorious history, has migrated to eternity in this day. Beneath a nation's passionate love for him, there lies this sacrifice we speak of above, and despite all opposition, the determination and determination of the enemy to be thrown out of our land. And when it was all over, he laid the foundations of a secular, democratic and independent country. As he closed his eyes to the world, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk entrusted this country to the young. That's why he didn't go with his eyes open because he knew very, very well how to move forward this sacred relic that every Turk took over from him, because he believed that all kinds of stupid and essential power he needed was in the blood of the noble blood in his veins. Mr. President, good lawmakers, remember that historical figures like Mustafa Kemal Ataturk have earned the hearts of the masses, not to keep their hearts open, but to their selfless work and services. History is a mirror of the past. Surely, the image of everyone who is good or bad will be revealed one day. Blessed are those who sit in the hearts of millions like Mustafa Kemal Ataturk! On this occasion, on the 74th anniversary of his death, I pray that Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, an example to the oppressed peoples of the world, lay in the light of God, while he mercifully and gratefully mentions his name on behalf of the MHP Group.
tbmm-2012-11-10sit01spe0004par0031	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. The second speaker is Ankara MP Nurdan Şanlı on behalf of the AK PARTI Group. Here you go, Mr. Glorious.
tbmm-2012-11-10sit01spe0005par0036	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in honor of the 74th year of the death of Ataturk, and I hereby salute the Honourable Assembly. First of all, I ask God's mercy on our 17 martyrs who were killed in a helicopter crash in Siirt Pervari, and I begin by wishing my condolences and patience to his family and to the great Turkish nation. It has been seventy-four years since we sent Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our republic, one of the greatest soldiers and states in human history. We remember the great leader with mercy, with gratitude, with respect. Not to mention Ataturk, but even minutes, hours, and days are inadequate. How grateful we are to Ataturk, who resuscitates this great nation with a unique Salvation War, which has won the world's admiration by holding hands with a nation in poverty, poverty, and poverty. As we all know, leadership and diversity were recognized by the math teacher when he was a minor student and was added to his name by the name "Mustafa Kemal. " Since his early teens, he has defied slavery and captivity, and freedom and independence have been his principle, his guide, even his character. Not all leaders who mark Earth history have worked for the good of mankind. For example, Hitler, Mussolini, Stalin, Nazi, fascist and communist leaders, and all dictators, you know what they pass on to history. Ataturk, on the other hand, made the difference by saying peace in the land, peace in the world. Human honor, human love, human freedom was the most fundamental principle. The unique inspiration Ataturk, who changed our nation's destiny, gave it a new and forward direction, is a leader who grows a little bit each year, a little bit more understood every year. Each year, on November 10th, it must be our duty to try and understand and understand his thoughts and values as we offer our love and respect for the Father. Ataturk, a pragmatic leader, used it very well in politics and military areas. It is, of course, the extraordinary qualities that make leaders different. Here is Ataturk, who has demonstrated his vision, his steadfast attitude, his faith in his nation, and his trust, and his structure, which is different from all the leaders in history, and has given him the War of National Liberation. This war was the first national liberation of the 20th century and has set an example for other oppressed nations. Ataturk had always expressed his faith in his people and said in 1920: "I know the Western nations, the nations of the world, the French, the Germans, the Russians, and the nations of the world, and I know them personally, and they have been under fire, they have been under fire, they have been facing death. I swear to you, the spiritual power of our nation is above the spiritual power of all nations. Ataturk, Tripoli and the Balkan Wars have had experiences in the First World War, and he has come forward with great achievements in his genius, proving himself. Following the defeat of the Ottoman Empire from the First World War and the signing of the Mondros Armistice Agreement, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk went to Samsun to start the national struggle on May 19, 1919. Ataturk held talks with the leaders of the country, and on the other hand, he was informed of the situation of various troops. On the night of June 21-22, 1919, the Amasian General Assembly of Amasya was stressed that the integrity of the country and the independence of the nation were at stake, and the independence of the nation would again save the nation's determination and determination. Later, the conventions of Erzurum and Sivas were held and crucial historical decisions were made in the presidency of Mustafa Kemal. As a result of the congresses, constitutional talks were held between the executive body of the State of Istanbul and the State of Istanbul on October 20-22, 1919, and as a result of these talks, the delegation was formally recognised by the Ottoman government. He then arrived in Ankara on December 27, 1919 and made Ankara the centre of the national struggle for salvation. Ataturk then had to deal with the enemy, who had fought against our borders, while the government of Istanbul and the rebels who had rebelled in Anatolia. Ataturk announced that he did not recognise the Ottoman government, which signed the Sevr Agreement on August 10, 1920, at a meeting of the Grand National Assembly on May 19, 1920. Ataturk's unwavering faith and ability to manipulate events had a profound effect on all the soldiers and the people of Asia Minor, making them believe that they would be victorious by firing their desire for independence. This strong belief and determination that the war would be won was the first step to victory. As a matter of fact, the victory of the Innu had been a great victory, defeated by the victory of Sakarya and the Battle of the High Command. Following this success, the sovereign states proposed an adjunct, and on October 11, 1922, the Mudanya Advent came into force on October 15, 1922. Later, on November 1, 1922, a law issued from the Parliament ended the reign. With the signing of the Lausanne Agreement on 24 July 1923, victory in the military area was crowned with political victory. An independent Turkey has also been established within its Islamic borders. On 29 October 1923, Ataturk was elected the first President of the Republic of Turkey. After the announcement of the Republic, he carried out the verses and the economic, social and cultural moves that he had launched have made the young Republic of Turkey even stronger and more respected in its region and in the world. On November 10, 1938, when the Great Leader lost his life at five past nine o'clock on November 10, 1938, we can't thank him enough for his unique hero, Ataturk. The remarkable saying of Ataturk is a remarkable saying to his people: I would advise my faithful nation that it should not give up a moment's attention, to examine the ore in the blood of the men it will raise to the top of its head. After the death of the Great Leader, foreign statesmen and the world press also spoke very well. President Roosevelt of the United States: My sorrow is two ways: First, I am as sorry as the whole world for the loss of such a great man. My second regret is that it is no longer possible for me to meet him, but it is no longer possible for British Prime Minister Churchill to meet him. They have said that the death of Ataturk, who saved Turkey in the war and who resurrected the Turkish nation after the war, is not only for his home, but also for Europe. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, once again in the 74th year of Ataturk's death, we all, together, remember with mercy and gratitude, and I pay my respects to the General Assembly once again.
tbmm-2012-11-10sit01spe0006par0055	Thank you, Mr. Glorious. And now the president of the Republican People's Party and the chairman of the Parliament Group Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-10sit01spe0007par0059	Mr. President, dear MPs, we all want a Turkey where peace prevails, we all want a Turkey where peace prevails. Our fathers and grandfathers fought for this purpose. 17 of our soldiers were killed in Pervari district of Siirt. I wish them, the Turkish people, and their relatives God's mercy, my condolences. Our heart lies in a Turkey where there is no pain. We didn't get the national war of independence easily, and no one offered it to us in gold plates. We paid heavy prices, we fought big battles. There was no separation, we all ran together, we fought the front lines together. At the end of that struggle, we formed today's young Republic of Turkey by hand. On the battlefields, our fathers and grandfathers were martyred, but there were thousands, hundreds of children, orphans. The first thing Mustafa Kemal and his friends did was to establish the Child Protective Services Agency in 1921. Those kids should have been touched by the hot hand of the state. The number of day-care centres, which were 10 in 1922, increased to 585 in 1937. This is a very important development. We start with our children while they're still healing the wounds. And Mustafa Kemal is aware that we have won political victory, we have achieved success in the battlefields, but they knew very well that a war victory that was not crowned with economic achievements was not permanent. None of them had ever been trained in economics. They didn't even know what inflation is, what deflation is, but they knew about life and touched life. On February 17, 1923, they assembled the Economic Congress in İzmir. How do we grow, how do we rise, how do we make our presence feel, how do we draw a successful graph without opening a hand to anyone, they've struggled with it. On February 17, 1925, they lifted the tax that the villagers had been complaining about. They brought peace to the peasant, they brought production, they prioritized production because there was no industry, the entire economic world was built on agriculture. On April 22, 1925, they established chambers of commerce and industry, allowing the merchant, the industrialist, to be organized. And they did something very important: why don't we build our plane, why don't we build our ship, why don't we go and beg someone? They said, on August 15, 1925, they laid the foundation of the engine and aircraft factory in Kayseri. They knew that goods with high added value means that Turkey is a state with a strong promise ahead. And on May 28, 1927, they took out the Industrial Law, in order to figure out how to encourage industry, industry, industry, and industry, how to move from agricultural society to industrial society. And on February 17, 1926, they accepted the Civil Law, and the great Parliament accepted it. Turkey is now a modern country, a country where equality between men and women must be held. Mustafa Kemal and his friends saw the equality of men and women that many places ignored and did not see. On June 8, 1929, they passed a law from Parliament to ground the landless peasant, because we had a peasant, but he didn't have land, it was the duty of the Parliament and the brave people who gave him the National Liberation War. Think of one thing, dear MPs, let's say you have everything, but you don't have the money, you don't have the bank to print your money. June 1st, 1930, they established the Central Bank. Now our citizens are holding on to our own money printed in our bank, which our high-ranking lawmakers probably know better than to assume is what an important actor is to print money. June 10, 1933, five-year Industrial Plan accepted, my friends. They're moving into the planned economy. A staff that knows nothing about the economy, a staff that has no economic training, sees the world, Turkey sees the world, we move it to modern civilization. How are we going to get from agricultural society to industry? May 3, 1934, this date is very important, my friends. If you remember, on August 15, 1925, I told you that the aircraft factory was built in Kayseri. On May 3, 1934, our first flight from Kayseri is landing in Ankara. Imagine, a government that built its own plane. We can't be too proud. They did it under the circumstances. My dear friends, December 5, 1934 is the date when women are given the right to choose and choose. Men and women ask... why do women not forget Mustafa Kemal? Why should he forget that he is the leader who gives them equal rights with men, gives them the right to be chosen, the right to choose? Therefore, all of us, and all of us, owe him a debt of gratitude. My dear friends, we built our plane, but that staff also said: "Why can't we build our own submarine? " On August 11, 1937, the first Turkish submarine was held in Halic. These are very important. It's very important because it was done under the circumstances that day. How did they do that? Because that staff didn't get it. He respected every penny that was collected, and when he spent it, he answered to his people. That staff never gave the corrupters a break. I'll give you four examples, valued lawmakers: December 18, 1927, during the repairs of the Yavuz Armored, the Navy Minister of the period - Minister of Marinery - was sent to the Supreme Court for corruption, he was tried and convicted. On April 18, 1928, the Trade Minister's immunity was lifted, sent to the Supreme Court, sentenced to 170,000 liras. On May 8, 1928, there was corruption at the Meclis window. The immunity of a member of parliament, called the Parliament, was removed, sent to the Supreme Court, and sentenced to two and a half years. On February 16, 1929, the Navy Minister and Finance Minister of the period were sent to the Supreme Court again, while the Marine Minister of the period was sentenced to pay 5 per cent of the gold. Dear friends, this is why these people do not forget Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. He is a leader who gives all his wealth to his people. For him the whole world is greeted with respect, and the whole world is treated with respect. My dear friends, he had a goal, a modern civilization. Modern civilization was fighting for its goal, and it also said: " How will we reach modern civilization? We will achieve it by producing it, ahead of science and reason. My spiritual heritage is science and reason. He wants to say this and says Mustafa Kemal Ataturk: "The nations who have made it a habit to live without work, without learning, without being tired, without being tired, are condemned to lose their dignity, then their freedom, and then their future. They removed an independent Turkey from the process. They said we're going to make our way out of here. They never denied science, art, they stayed close to art, they prioritized science, they touched every aspect of life. How do we move our own country to modern civilization? One of his greatest ideals was democracy, some parties were formed while he was alive, but it didn't work out. Democracy is a business of culture, of course, democracy is a business of savings. We're trying to improve our democracy, we're doing it together. If the Great Parliament is perceived as the Kaaba of our democracy, we all have our contribution, our efforts. Together we will strengthen our democracy, fight together. If we do so, it will be our duty to move Turkey to the level of modern civilization and to take it beyond it. We sent him to eternity seventy-four years ago, and seventy-four years ago he walked to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Hakkk. We cherish him with love, with respect, and say, "May he rest in peace." My respects to the great Parliament.
tbmm-2012-11-10sit01spe0008par0082	Mr. Kilicdaroglu, thank you very much. On behalf of the government, the last speaker is Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc. Here you go, Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2012-11-10sit01spe0009par0087	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Because of the 74th anniversary of the death of the great Ataturk, we are having a special meeting today in the merger of our Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We've just had talks on behalf of the groups of our three political parties in connection with the death of the great Ataturk. I thank Mr. Halaçoglu and Mr. Şanlı, especially Mr. President Kilicdaroglu, and my friends, who have given extraordinary beautiful, meaningful speeches that address the Great Ataturk. My dear friends, our friends who spoke on behalf of their group have also made contact, and just to give you some information, I'd like to introduce to you a sentence about the pain we had this morning. We have a military helicopter in the Siirt Pervari countryside, which, unfortunately, has hit the mountain in a dense, dense fog, after a few days of heavy rain. Around 7:15 p.m., in this tragedy, three of our officers, four of our petty officers, one of our sergeants, nine of our specialists were killed. It's a purely technical and weather-conditioned event. We're terribly sorry. In the morning, when we were in the presence of the great Ataturk, the matter that we had been partially informed of has now become clear. We ask God's mercy to our martyrs and to all our martyrs themselves, and we ask patience for all who feel this pain in their hearts, and we offer our condolences. Dear MPs, we were at the Memorial today, and many of our friends were there, and there were formal ceremonies. After the official ceremonies, we held an official memorial meeting at the National Library Hall, where we held an organization of the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute, which is my institution, as we do every year. At this meeting, the president, me and Mr. President have spoken. We're having this meeting today in our House, in the tradition of our President. On the 74th anniversary of his passing, we remember the great Ataturk, with our gratitude and gratitude. In the war of independence of our country, I fight with Ataturk, asking for mercy on all of our fallen martyrs, bowing before their glorious memory. I give thanks to our veterans and to the survivors, and I wish them the best of health and pleasure. Ataturk is an exceptional leader in the history of Turkey and the world, with his determination, strong willpower and innovative personality. With his military skills in the First World and Liberation Wars, a great commander is a political genius who managed to reunite a nation that was on the verge of disbanding after World War I with a sense of full independence and brotherhood. In the troubled days of the Salvation War, a nation that had been exhausted by wars, an occupied country from all sides, a disbanded army, began the struggle for independence in Anatolia. Along with these exceptional features of Ataturk's achievements, his confidence and faith in the Turkish nation played a great role. He has complete confidence in his people. When he set foot in Samsun on 19 May 1919, he had no material power. In their own words, there was a higher and spiritual force, a force that was the nation itself. Gazi Mustafa Kemal, in his love of independence, founded a new state that took his strength from his country instead of a disintegrating jihadous state. The republic, which we celebrated this year's 89th anniversary, is, of course, his greatest gift to our nation. Like every man who has passed away, he has gone back to the world of eternity. Ataturk, the republic, is a fan of freedom of opinion. We respect every idea, provided we are sincere and legitimate. Again, one of the most prominent features of Ataturk is the quality of being an idea man. The basic philosophy that constitutes the essence of his ideas is the rational world view free of all dogmatic elements. Ataturk often expressed the importance of science and reason, suggesting that we seek solutions in light of science in the face of problems. This modern - day view, which has accepted the guidance of wisdom and knowledge in the face of problems caused by the country's realities, has always led our nation to good, right, and good. It is possible for us to maintain our existence as an independent state based on national sovereignty within our national borders to work in unity and unity with the country's undivisable integrity. The principle and thinking structure of the Ataturk (Aaturk) is based on the rule of the will of the nation. It's the republic's main goal, not so-called, to establish and live a fundamental democracy. It is not possible to talk about the rule of law unless democracy dominates state life. Independence allows the state to take its rightful place among the nations of the world. The nations that have managed to stand on their own two feet can only maintain independence. This, of course, will be possible with the growth of people who produce, who contribute to humanity with their hard work. Knowledge is strong. A nation has the power to produce information. It depends on the power that a country's word is heard in the international arena and can lead the world's politics. It is also the insurance of social peace and internal stability. History bears witness to the creation of great civilizations of nations who produce knowledge and bring its knowledge to life. Ataturk laid the foundations of the new state of Turkey as a leader of the fall of the Ottoman State. In order to move forward, he saw that each part of society must aim at the same goal. As long as the thinking system, ideals, and principles of Gazi Mustafa Kemal are not imprisoned within a fundamentalist, puritanical framework, it will be a serious guide for us today to address the problems facing our country and our nation. If we look at the prescription set by his principles, we will see that the main movement point of Gazi Mustafa Kemal is the individual. An investment in a man guarantees the future. Generations that can track the world, read things correctly, grow up with modern techniques of the age, and depend on our national and spiritual values can only be the guarantee of our future. All our zeal and purpose are to look after the works of Ataturk, and the memory of the saints. We are determined and determined that the Republic of Turkey will remain in its rightful place forever. The values of our Republic are also the values of our nation. With our gains, we look forward to a bright future as a nation and a state. Our country's reputation and honor within the nation's community is a clear sign of these gains. In science, in art, in politics, in culture, and in economics, we will achieve the goals of Ataturk, with what our country has achieved and what it will achieve. Our institutions and in a whole state are continuing to increase and improve their service and activities in this way, and will continue to do so. As I end my words with these thoughts, in the name of the government, because of the 74th anniversary of his death, I salute and praise Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and ask the blessings of all the heroes and martyrs and veterans of our national struggle, and salute your great delegation.
tbmm-2012-11-10sit01spe0010par0107	[[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] Thank you, Mr. Arinc. One of our friends entered the system and the other requested a written statement. As agreed with the groups, and as with all November 10th, I apologize to both our friends for pledging only what was already agreed on on on behalf of the groups, so I can't promise. Now, according to the decision made, it is 14 p.m. on Sunday (November 11th 2012) to discuss the draft and proposals and other tasks from the Commission. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
