tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during that time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0002par0009	Mr. President, I had a false statement in the last report. According to Article 58, I'd like a word to correct that statement about the last report, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0001par0010	Sure, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0002par0013	Mr. President, in a personal speech on the adoption of an international agreement in the past union, I used a word about Syria, which, rather than its rulers in Syria, terrorized these events in Syria, which gave them weapons support. I apologize for that. The state of the Republic of Turkey is our state. In fact, the basic philosophy of our state, the great Ataturk, who built it, is peace in the land, peace in the world. Because we... The reason for this is that many people out there are rumored that events in Syria have been mixed up by Turkey, by certain forces of Turkey, or even by certain organisations, that they have been brought in and trained by some people in Turkey. That's what I'm here for. But it's definitely not Turkey. But Turkey's Foreign Minister is at work today, and Tunisia is interested in these events, and America is interested in them. (x) The statement on this correction is found on page 52 of the 70th Union Article of 23/02/2012 magazine. What we want -- this is the Great National Assembly of Turkey -- is to have information here. Unfortunately, right now, there are a lot of Libyans in Turkey. There are hotels. There, the other day, at a hotel in Antalya, they had a big scene at a wedding. There are many places in Ankara. Here are some of the people from Hamas, some of the people from the Muslim brothers, and they need to be explained to us here. Tomorrow, when these people commit crimes in Turkey, who will care about that? Then where are they paid for, who are paid for, and for what purpose are they in Turkey? These things need to be explained.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0003par0018	Mr. Young, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0002par0019	Mr. President, actually the Civil Code says five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0003par0020	No, no, in five minutes, says Mr. Young. Please, in two minutes... you know you can't talk about anything else. Please... please, finish.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0002par0021	But at least give me half of the five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0003par0022	Yes, I did, sir, two and a half minutes ago.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0002par0023	No, you gave me two minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0003par0024	Okay, thank you very much. Congressmans, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three members of parliament off the agenda, but in the meantime, my brother Azerbaijan has arrived at our House of Parliament. We greet them, welcome them. [[Applause]] The first non-responsive statement is from Army MP Ihsan Şener, who asked for the anniversary of February 28th, which is called the post-modern coup. Here you go, Mr. Sener.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0004par0036	Mr. President, I have been promised the 15th anniversary of February 28th, which is called the postmodern coup. I salute your committee. By the way, I pray to God for the mercy of my Azerbaijan brothers, who died 20 years ago in the massacre of Hodjalı, before I began my words, and I condemn those who committed this massacre with hatred. Today is the fifteenth year of the political and economic nightmare referred to as the February 28th process. It was a dark period of darkness with its rightist and leftist, with its military, with its civilian, with its religious and secular, with its immediate impact on every part of society, making everyone do their books over and over again, making Turkey pay a great price in every way, leaving deep traces in our social memory, February 28th. In various ways, it is beneficial to consider this process in cold blood. During February 28th, democracy was interfered with outside the system, the political power was forced to change, the legal state was ignored. Democracy was massacred to save democracy. The society has been divided into camps, and the strengthened state capital of Anatolia has been asked to be destroyed. The military-civil bureaucracy, media and business world have held hands against the threat of irresponsibility and the threat of secularism, and have changed power over the current government. In the process, the Chief of General Staff gave intermediary briefings to judges, prosecutors, members of the media and NGOs, and newspapers made all-out war headlines, and the film "Fadime Şahin-Muslüm Gündüm Gündüm Gündüz-Ali Tetovocı" was shown over and over again and over again in public. Again, some journalists and military-sponsored relatives have been declared PKK agents and have been discharged from their jobs. With this intervention, Turkey has once again been crippled by democracy. In Turkey, the history of military intervention and commutantism is old. The coup d'état and komitaci inherited the republic, especially in the early years of the republic, many unsolved murders have been witnessed. In this sense, the 28 February process planted serious seeds of conflict between the state and the nation. In a modern, democratic country, however, those who rule the country are elected. People have the right to suspend the politician they don't like after one election. Again, modern, democratic societies do not have unchanging rules and taboos; rules and policies can be changed according to the public's preferences, as well as institutions. In countries where the political field is surrounded by unchanging rules, military custody, the tradition of coup, all sorts of immunity and taboos, people can't look at themselves or the future of the country with confidence. In the process, a ruling party was shut down. Our Prime Minister, who was then mayor of Istanbul Metropolitan, was sentenced to ten months in prison for a poem he read. He can't even be a headman anymore. The headlines were made. In the election held on 3 November 2002, the biggest lesson for the 28 Februaryers who tried to manipulate Turkish politics through some political engineering projects was enough, and the decision was made by the nation. Despite this warning from our nation, the coup attemptners, set up by the AK PARTY, the Sledgehammer, the moonlight plans are always in the light of day, and the April 27th declaration is also a declaration rejected by the EC PARK. Today, with the Ergenekon terrorist organization case, this will all come to light. Dear friends, as a result, any blow, civilian or military, is a disaster. Both politics and economics should be left to their natural flow, allowing society to change its natural dynamics. The sin gallery of the 28th February period is very puffy. The millennium will not go on, but the millennium will be damned. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0005par0050	Thank you. The second statement outside the agenda belongs to Erzincan MP Muharrem Izlu, who wants to talk about the issues of Erzincan Province. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0006par0055	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the issues of Erzincan Province. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the population of Erzincan County dropped to 225,000 last year, this year's final census to 214,000. So 10,000 people have migrated, which means 3,000 families have emigrated. Of course, if we're saying that this population is a fantasy, we need to see if the elections were held last year, whether he voted in the election or not. Unfortunately, our immigration problem continues to continue. It's going to keep going. The biggest sign of this is the privatisation of our Sugar Factory. Our Sugar Factory, you know, was sold with the land value of Malatya, in the form of three gifts to one field. We have about 450 workers working right now. If half of our workers are retired, half of them are gone, then at least a thousand people are gone. However, it is coming to the attention of our military Heavy Care Factory. We're expecting help from our dear brother-in-law, the Secretary of Defense, to keep this from closing, and I hope he doesn't. However -- we have 151 workers working there, and we have military workers -- if we think they're going to go, we're going to have a decline in our population. Of course, when we call it a sugar factory, we should not only see 450 employees. Besides, 10,000 families take advantage of it. Especially since they can't make anything but sugar production in our village of Altınbaşak, in our district of Grapelu, it's certain that they will migrate. Also, one of the main reasons for migration in Erzincan is that animalism is over. In 2002, Erzincan had about 400,000 small animals, and it is now down to 200,000. Although the number of cattle is now overrated in all the villages we travel to -- in my own village of Ulalar -- in each house, before there were at least 10 or 15 cattle, there are now, unfortunately, not 50 houses, if you count them. However, the damage these will do to the economy... even though our unemployment is shown at 6 percent, we are already seeing from this indicator that the actual numbers are not like that. In Erzincan, our hospitals, unfortunately, are trying to be singled out. Although we are constantly trying to bring this up, our former SEC hospital -- now closed -- is about to move to the Bengü Steel Hospital, which is now called the State Hospital, which is called the "A Block." Of course, the policy here is all indications that in 2004, we will see what will happen in health, as well as the full privatisation of commitments to the World Bank, the IMF, the World Trade Organization, and the privatisation of hospitals in the public area, as well as the privatisation of them. In Erzincan, we've heard that recently, especially from the increase of migration and the immediate impacts on Erzincan's economy, especially now that our Sugar Factory is in front of Mr. Prime Minister, because the land value is low, I hope it's true -- we want our Prime Minister to give up this privatisation and not be victimized by our Erzincan. I'd like to get back to the hospitals. Of course, we became jealous of Erzurum. As Erzurum was running into a hospital on every corner, I strongly disagree with the reduction of the number of hospitals in our Erzincan. Of course, the professors who come to our hospital... I've brought them up before... but no one takes it seriously with the new understanding that you have 13 professors... who are said to be doing examinations every day. Sadly, once a month, one day he comes and looks at the newspapers, and the health problem is solved in Erzincan. And that, of course, is the truth of health policy. We've been having a lot of difficulty with co-ops in Erzincan lately, trying to cut off co-op. We think it's conscious because animalism in Erzincan is one of the most available areas. There's a great deal of effort among us, people we call "Muslims," but we see that they've been cut off. And in this regard, we ask our great Parliament to be cautious and to take immediate precautions to prevent further problems. In addition to these issues, we find that there has been a great injustice recently in Erzincan, especially in hiring workers. We've seen our young people take jobs with references from specific locations. We get at least 20 or 30 phone calls a day, but unfortunately, we can't help our young people with that. I thank you, all of you, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0007par0068	Thank you, Mr. Light. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Iğdır MP Sinan Oğan. Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0008par0073	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as you know, the greatest tragedy mankind's history may have seen in the town of Hoxhalı, which belonged to Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) 20 years ago and was occupied today, was the greatest genocide in the history of mankind in the last century. Now we know how many people died in this genocide, how many people were injured, and on different platforms it was said. However, there was no further than being expressed on different platforms. On Sunday, on February 26th, millions of people went out on the streets all over Turkey, millions of people felt the pain of the genocide at Hodja. But we, who are representatives of those millions of people, still haven't agreed to a decision. With special zeal, with special zeal, for the first time in 20 years, our Foreign Commission issued a statement, and then we issued a statement as the Turkish-Azerbaijan Friendship Association. But today I think it's time for our Parliament to issue a statement on this matter. Even in a time when even the people of Mexico called what happened in Hoshmah (Synamics), we call the joy of Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan), our grief for the joy of Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan). As a nation of the two states we call "Azerbaijan" (Azerbaijan), it is meant to refer to the atrocities that happened in Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan). We Turks, unfortunately, have not remembered the atrocities, genocides that have been committed to us throughout history, we have not brought them up, we've always celebrated victory festivals, we've always built monuments to victory. However, there have been major injustices against us in history, done in the Balkans, done in the Caucasus, done in Anatolia, and since we don't remember them, since we don't decide about them as Parliament, they don't exist in our social memory because we don't give street names, street names. I think it's very important for our Parliament to take this decision on this occasion, to make such a decision today -- because today will be a special session -- about this. Of course, I'd like to make another point on this occasion. In his speech there, Turkish blood has been spilled, and this Turkish blood has not yet been accounted for. That's right, there was Turkish blood spilled, Turkish blood spilled. One of the authorities to answer for this is this Parliament, with the majority of the Justice and Development Party, where Mr. Minister is the ministry of his government. It is imperative that we fulfill our promise there. Either we don't talk there, or if we're talking there, we'll come here and we'll do what's necessary in this House. I'd like to underline one more thing. Of course, in such large amounts of people's rallies, of course, there may have been unregistered banners opened, which we strongly condemn, but I did not believe that an AKP MP would be willing to put a mortgage on the millions walking for the teacher, to demand an investigation into it. We, of course, will personally condemn such individual missteps, but I doubt your intentions when you've invested it with millions of people, hundreds of thousands of people there. Where are you, Congressman, when all the Armenians were insulted by the Turks at those rallies against Turkish history, why didn't you start that investigation that day, and why do you feel uncomfortable when the Turks walk today? Dear lawmakers, the account for genocide against the Turks must be asked. This genocide is being committed in Azerbaijan, it's being done in East Turkistan, it's being done in other parts of the world against Turks. I'm afraid we didn't shed half the tears that we shed in Gaza. Of course, we will shed tears for Gaza, but we must shed tears for Hodja as well as for Gaza. It is time for us to put a historical and legal significance to the genocides committed in Iğdır, Karst, Adana, and the genocides committed against us. The more we ignore them, the more we mourn, the more others try to create a date over something that doesn't exist and bring a black mark on the glorious history of Turkey. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0009par0083	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Members of parliament, on behalf of the government, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, Mr. Nihat Ergun (i.e., Minister of Science, Industry and Technology) has an off-the-topic request on the 59th Amendment of the Civil Charter, marking the anniversary of the Hodja massacre. I'll grant this request before it's on the agenda. After the Minister's statement, I will make a promise to political party groups at their request and to one of the non-group lawmakers.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0010par0086	Mr. President, there were demands for your place.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0011par0087	Mr. President, we have demands based on 60.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0009par0088	A statement request for lawmakers without a group has been filed. I'd like to ask the non-group MP to notify our president of his commitment demands. The deadlines are 20 minutes for the government, ten minutes for the political party groups, five for the member of parliament without a group. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, I have made a promise on behalf of our government on the grounds of the 20th anniversary of the massacre of the teacher, the genocide. I hereby salute your high council. From the beginning of human history to this day, there have been many murders, many sufferings, many wrongs, persecutions, and tragedies. Every verb in life has to be compared to a moral and conscience, and I think one of the most meticulous places to apply this truth is the battlefields. We have a tradition that constantly emphasizes that even war has a law, and we have a history of very meaningful examples in this regard. Our persecution has never, ever touched women, children, old men too weak to fight in battle, those who took refuge in temples, and those who prayed for mercy. This attitude reveals the line between our ideal of conquest and the madness of occupation and invasion. If our ancestors were greeted with a great deal of love and respect in the land they conquered, that is why they were welcomed. Unfortunately, in the history of mankind, there are a great deal of atrocities that are completely contrary to the understanding of our civilization. By 1915, none of the ethnic and religious groups that lived under our sovereignty during the millennium of Anatolian territory suffered, but in the First World War, the cost of provocations by those who wanted to divide the world again was too high on the territory of Anatolia. For all of us, the suffering of the trial brought by those who wanted to divide the world again among the people who lived without problems throughout the millennium. There's no need to go any further. It's also possible to see these unfortunate mug shots around us. In Algeria, in Bosnia, in Gaza, in West Thrace, in Bulgaria, in Aleppoce, all of this has happened recently around us. Only twenty years ago, this massacre in Hoxhalı village against innocent civilians will continue today, as it did yesterday, as a symbol of shame on humanity's neck. Sadly, the world, which did not heed the cries of Hodja on that day, continues to be insensitive today. Imagine an army raiding a village one night, with no army to resist, women, children and old men pointing a gun at anyone without calling them, firing a bullet. A country is taking on a major occupation by violating international law, undermining justice and conscience. In Hoxhalı, where more than 600 of our brothers were slaughtered, many more of our brothers became veterans, captured or lost. On this occasion, he prays once more for God's mercy to our fellow martyrs, and once again we share the pain of our Azerbaijan brothers. Azerbaijan and Turkey are two brothers who have a very deep relationship with each other, who speak the same language, share the same culture, but I'd like to stress in particular that our opposition to the massacre at Hoxhalı is because of a massacre against humanity, beyond the fact that the massacre was intended only for our descendants. We, as Turkey, are in the face of all kinds of persecution and initiatives in which humanity, conscience, justice and law have been violated, we have been against it, we will continue to be against it. As we oppose the embargo in Gaza, which deprived children of medicine, we also oppose the cruel practices of the Syrian state against its own citizens. In this regard, I would like to say that we also care deeply about Turkey's enormous change and development in recent years, and that everyone should care. Turkey, for example, is a country that has increased its reputation in its region and in the world, in its growing economy, in its steps towards democratisation. A strong Turkey will also play an important role in maintaining stability in our geography and not repeating events similar to the Hodja massacre. A strong Turkey will also guarantee peace, peace, trust and stability in this region. In Turkey, political parties, businessmen, civil society organizations and all our citizens must act with such a sense of consciousness and responsibility. We must always remember that every step we take for this country is rewarded beyond this country. Mr. President, the honorable lawmakers, the massacre of Hodja is a very important event for humanity to learn today and in the future. This black page of history clearly shows what bad consequences can come from a mindset that feeds on hatred rather than good neighbourly relations and co-operation. Today, as a human being, instead of fighting in every aspect of life, we have to produce talks, peace instead of war, policies that promote cooperation rather than fighting. Development in Turkey's relations with many neighbouring countries clearly shows the importance of such policies. At this point, it is important to point out that the world's response to this massacre and the subsequent occupation now puts the world's obligation to conduct a criminal accounting. The delay of such accounts and the lack of the necessary for the responsible is the most important event that sets the stage for a repeat of such sufferings. It's a very sad event for our world that politicians and countries who try to carve and distort what has happened in the past are not interested in what is happening in front of them. We have to take care of what is in front of us, and the world needs to take such an attitude. Such as the teacher's massacre, the person who takes power from painful events will get away with it. The logic of it is that it poses serious risks and dangers in international politics. It is clear that the world's countries have made new invitations to such events. Our support for Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) is always to be known by the world's public to the extent that this massacre, which ignores the most basic human and conscientious values as Turkey, will continue. Especially this year, the memorial event within our Foreign Ministry and the rallies organised by our NGOs, particularly Istanbul, are the best examples of this support. Again, this year, a statement condemning the unanimous murder of the Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Commission has been a concrete and decisive step towards our common sense. We sincerely support the efforts of our Azerbaijan brothers and sisters from Azerbaijan to find a peaceful solution to the problem of Upper Karabagan, and we will continue to support it. From here, of course, I would like to call on our beloved nation: the condemnation of Istanbul is also very important for our nation to demonstrate its stand against persecution once again, but some negative paintings, which do not reflect the general feeling of our nation, of course, have arisen. We will, of course, condemn and criticize and criticize every platform, our rights to the fullest, but in doing so, we will find a way to do so without offending any of our citizens who live in our country, and of course we will avoid them. We have to find a way to do all this without planting the seeds of hatred and hatred and racism of the future. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers will continue to work for the recognition of Turkey's Hodja massacre, better known by the world. Furthermore, Turkey will continue to increase its power and reputation and will do everything in its power to prevent such suffering from happening again in the world. At the end of my speech, I ask for God's mercy on our brothers who died in the massacre of Hodja, and again I ask for my condolences and patience on our Azerbaijan brothers. I salute you all. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, on behalf of the groups, the first speaker is Ali Özgündüz, İstanbul MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0012par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs... February 25th, it's cloudy, it's dark, The world has never seen such violence, such barbarism. Feet are ice cuts, faces are cold, The world's audience has now forgotten humanity. Those who try to sell the contract as a massacre, There's no need to be far away, there's the Caucasus in '92. From Hodja to Wax, It's like a field of corpses, children and women. Yes, I began with a few verses of the poem of our beloved Poet, Selahattin Arslan, about Hoshlı, about the massacre of Hodja, about the genocide. Hodja, for us, is a crime against humanity, and a atrocities that fit the definition of genocide defined in Article 2 of the United Nations Convention on Punishment of Genocide. On February 26, 92, 20 years ago, armed, unarmed, innocent, women, children, old, young, armed forces came into the town of Hodja and slaughtered 613 citizens. Not only did they slaughter and slaughter the citizens of Azerbaijan, who tried to flee toward the wax, but they cut off their scalps, took out their eyes, cut out their women's breasts, and cut their bellies. Why was this massacre, crime against humanity, genocide committed? About 3,000 Azerbaijan citizens living in the region were made for ethnic cleansing of Turkish and Muslim elements. Therefore, we have to refer to such acts as genocide. In fact, it wasn't the first time Armenia had committed a massacre. You know, in 1918, the Armenian forces who entered Baku had massacred about 30,000 Azerbaijan citizens and the Turkish army under the command of Nuri Pasha entered Bakû, and saved Baku. As a matter of fact, in memory of those martyrs, there is Turkish martyrdom in the Baku Martyrs' Land today. Kelbecer and Lacin were occupied before the master was invaded. As the teacher's massacre began, the Kabbat, Zengilan, Gabriel, Fuzuli, and the wax rails were also occupied. Today, 20 per cent of Azerbaijan is occupied by Armenia. Some 1 million Azerbaijan citizens who migrated from their homes to their ancestors, from their father's homes, live in difficult conditions in the suburbs of Baku. So let them see this massacre, let them describe it, let us discuss the events of 1915, instead of going after the incident of Hodja -- the films, the documents, the images -- instead of the 1915. First of all, we don't have any problems with Armenian citizens. We don't hold grudges because of the identity, race, faith of a citizen, Armenian citizen, wherever he is in our country or anywhere in the world. Our problem is with racist Armenia executives who have troubled the Armenians and the Armenian citizens, who, as one of whom is currently the President of Armenia. We reject all forms of racism. Therefore, even though we do not agree with the opinion of Hrant Dink, who was slaughtered in our country, we will curse that massacre. No one, and no one, should have the right to punish a person who doesn't like his opinion. Otherwise, if people pretend to be judges and executioners, people who commit crimes and commit treason according to everyone else will be slaughtered on the streets, which we will reject, and the Republic of Turkey will not tolerate this kind of illegality, and we, as the Republican People's Party, are opposed to that kind of understanding from the start. In his speech, the Minister also linked the massacre of Hodjalı to the events in Syria. Dear lawmakers, let us be against the oppressors, oppose all forms of persecution, true, but we must determine who the tyrant is. Who is the tyrant? That's the problem. So the United States, which killed 1 million Muslims in Iraq today, raped Muslim women, and burned Kuryman in Afghanistan -- just last week -- and the imperialist countries under his command -- are they friends of Syria? To this end, meetings with these countries are being held under the name of the friends of Syria. I assure you that the more democracy they brought to Iraq, the more democracy they brought to Afghanistan, the more democracy they will bring to Syria. If we want to be good neighbors, if we want to contribute, let us contribute positively to our Syrian brothers and friends. The constitutional referendum has been held, 92 per cent of the vote has been passed, elections will be held within three months. Let's contribute, let's contribute, let's not fuel war. More than 40 citizens of the Republic of Turkey are alleged to have been arrested in Syria. The Syrian Foreign Minister says Turkey is misunderstanding if we take five. Let's sit down, so call the authorities in Syria, sir, and let's sit down with the officials of the other neighbouring countries, and make a positive contribution, and let's not fuel the war. Yes, my dear friends, the Hodja incident is a complete massacre, a genocide-compatible violence, and some 1,275 prisoners are still missing. So over a thousand Azerbaijan citizens were brutally tortured by Armenian gangsters in '92. We've been keeping this thing on the map for years, and this year it's been a little bit more public. We also condemn racial rhetoric and behavior in demonstrations held in the division. But as Mr. President said in the convention, we haven't forgotten Hodja, we won't forget. I ask God's mercy to the citizens of Azerbaijan who lost their lives in Hodjalı, our martyrs, and, hopefully, after surviving the 20 per cent of the occupied land of Azerbaijan, we will work there, in Karabağ, in Fuzuli, in Kubatlı, in Ağdam, and in order that the criminals be punished internationally. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0013par0133	Thank you, Mr. Original. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mersin MP Ertugrul Kürkcı. Here you go, Mr. Furcier. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0014par0138	Dear friends, Mr. President, on the anniversary of the teacher massacre, we bow before the memory of everyone who lost their lives. On December 25, 1991, the Soviet Union of Socialist Republics broke up, and between 1990 and 1995, the Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia broke up. When all the liberals of the world were disbanding these countries, they had reported that history had come to an end, that there had now been an endless period of peace in the world, that class struggles had come to an end, and that we would live in an endless world of happiness and freedom, but ever since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, everyone has been at war with everyone in every corner of the world. The Armenian-Azerbaijan dispute, the Chechnya-Russian dispute, the Abkhazia-Gürcistan dispute, the Serbia-Bosna dispute, the massacres and the slaughters of Africa from one end to the other, all of which are born for one reason, from the resharing of this world, from the struggle of resharing the regions, from the claim of superiority, sovereignty, rights and ownership over the land. So all the inequalities and wars and massacres that have gone on from Abel and Cain to this day have also cost the lives of the Hodja people. Can we put an end to all this with wishes, good wishes, screaming for revenge? I don't think that's possible. They will only encourage and provoke new blood baths, new pools of blood, and the cries of vengeance will only result in more violence and more slaughter. Therefore, I don't think that by ignoring the view that the Interior Minister faced at the meeting in Tirana, ignoring all calls for bloodshed, exclusion, hatred, throats to Turkey, he himself would be able to ease the pain of his Hodja people by accepting the ownership of these calls. On the contrary, it will result in their being condemned to hurt our citizens who live in Turkey, who do not come from Turkish origin, and to live in fear for the rest of their lives and generations, and to remain in this country without ever knowing for sure whether they will live in Turkey or not. I strongly condemn this behavior on behalf of our party, on behalf of our group, on behalf of our bloc, and on behalf of all the workers of Turkey. I think our Home Secretary is doing a very bad job, based on his own internal policy and foreign policy issues on the backs of others, based on his own internal politics, control issues, taking a step towards Turkey's internal affairs. It's interesting that such a sovereign politics, the pursuit of regional domination, has always led people to love other people's countries more than their own. They love Bosnia more than the Bosnians, Syria than the Syrians, and Azerbaijan than the Azerbaijans, more than anyone else.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0015par0145	Don't be ridiculous!
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0014par0146	I see you're having trouble understanding rational sentences, so I suggest you understand.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0015par0147	Of course, we can't understand if you're full of shit.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0016par0148	You've made a difficult wish for him, Congressman.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0014par0149	Yes, I see you have a ridiculous way of thinking that doesn't understand proper sentences.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0015par0150	We're learning from you.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0017par0151	Please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0014par0152	President, you see they're stealing my word. Well, friends, it's not a joke, it's people's lives and other lives that can be extinguished. It is our duty to appoint a foreign policy that we will live in peace with our own neighbors -- which is our neighbor -- who is Armenia -- to establish a foreign policy that we will live in peace, to draw conclusions from it; it is not our duty to vomit hatred and hatred in the morning and evening, but to bring another massacre against a massacre. We are at equal distance from all massacres, regardless of race, religion, nationality, origin; the massacre in Aleppoce, the massacre in 1915 Ottoman State, and the Teacher of 1992. We're at equal distance from all the massacres here; we curse murderers, we're with the victims; we're on the side of the defeated, the wanted, the outcast, we'll be the defender of their rights everywhere. Our Prime Minister says what's happening in Taxi is individual issues, there's no need to dwell on them, but I, to be honest, think our President's approach to the Human Rights Review Commission is much better. If he wants a hate speech, he has no right, no right, no right, no excuse for a minister who pardons this hate speech, a minister who forgives that hate speech. In Turkey, we cannot establish brotherhood, peace among citizens, solidarity among the people; it is of no use to Hodjalı. This approach, which has led us to meddle in the internal affairs of all our neighbors, to question everyone's account, as the Republican People's Party Speaker mentioned earlier, seems to have made our government official in the internal affairs of Syria. I'm afraid that we, who are gathered here today to condemn the massacre of Hodja, can see ourselves as responsible for many future conflicts and bloodshed in Syria. There's no need to go far, we've been living in a conflict in Turkey that's costing about 40,000 lives in 30 years. Those who can't solve this conflict, who can't stop the blood stream here, don't have to be in such a hurry to answer for someone else's blood. However, in order to defend the rights and interests of those living in Azerbaijan, the first and last words must always be for those living in Azerbaijan. The government of Azerbaijan has an opinion, but there are other people living in Azerbaijan. Those people are in neighbourly relations with Turkey, we're friends, we talk to them, and we understand their language differently than our other neighbors. Let's say we don't understand the language of Syria, we don't understand the language of Cyprus, we don't understand the language of Greece, we don't understand the language of Iran, but we understand the speech of the Azerbaijans. Look, friends, what does the Turkish Socialist Azerbaijanian platform say to all of this: we object to the use of the massacre as material to deny the Armenian tragedy in 1915, when we believe that no massacre can be an excuse for the other, that no suffering can be superior to the other. There are Azerbaijans like that. We understand each other's language with them. We understand the suffering of the Azerbaijans, and we have a common sense of how to get out of these problems. Unless there is another and a new world, where mankind is not divided by religions, nationality, races, every day the seeds of hatred and hatred from within this inequality, exploitation world can spread everywhere, and take us all captive. So we can talk about two key antidotes to deal with this. One of them is to oppose hate speech with all our might, to purge hate speech from our language, to think of our neighbors, ourselves, our people, and our lives in a different language; and two, to believe that a new world of equality, freedom and brotherhood is possible, and to defend it. Long live the brotherhood of the peoples!
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0018par0163	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Atila Kaya is an Istanbul MP. Mr. Rock, come in.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0019par0167	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. At the same time, I welcome and salute the esteemed MPs of the Azerbaijan Parliament who are following this session. Dear congresswoman friends, as our fellow MPs who have just spoken on behalf of our political parties and our Dear Congressman Friend, who speaks off the agenda, is one of the greatest, most important massacres of the 21st century. In fact, I think it would take a little bit of going back to the event in order to truly understand the massacre of the Hodja, because some of my fellow congressmen, from time to time, have been mentioned in a way that leads to hate speech, even racism. See, on the eve of the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the Armenian Parliament made a decision to leave Armenia in about 250,000 Azerbaijan Turks, living at the same time in 1988, and that about 250,000 people were forced to migrate from these countries to Azerbaijan. Basically, one of the most fundamental, most important elements of instability today in the Caucasus is that the government of Armenia, the government of Armenia, has a very important share of its policy that is hostile to its neighbours. Armenia does not only demand land from Azerbaijan. Armenia is, unfortunately, a state that has no respect for its neighbours' rights, its law, its occupational and disseminating policy, and is governed by executives with that mentality, as well as by our Eastern Anatolian region, as in its own constitution and its declaration of independence. Now, dear MPs, I've just listened to the Minister, Mr. Minister, who has touched and expressed the politics of Armenia that harbored hostility towards this invader and its neighbours. But I'd like to share one question with you: Well, a country that has such hostile and disseminating intentions against its neighbours, in which you have signed protocols in Zurich under what name, for what grounds, and for what reasons, for a country that has some claim to our country in its Constitution. See, these protocols had become tough during the past Parliament period, but now, these protocols were relocated to the agenda of the Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Commission on 22/09/2011. So, there's a intimacy here... and these practices that really mean encouraging an occupied country must be abandoned, and these protocols must be withdrawn immediately from the agenda of this Foreign Affairs Commission. This also means a test of sincerity from the government, which has just been expressed in talks. Dear lawmakers, look, there are various statements from both Karabağ and Kocharyan and current Armenian President Sarkisyan, who, at that time, ruled Karabağ, Karabağ Autonomous Region. The expression of Bizatihi Sarkisyan is this: until Hocallı, the Azerbaijans thought that we would not touch or joke about the civilian population, we showed the Azerbaijanians and the whole world that we did not joke about it. So what they did was that they slaughtered hundreds, thousands of people without saying women, children, and they have an approach to present-day Armenia executives who make it look like it was an act of honor. Unfortunately, in the past, by signing protocols with these, and again, unfortunately, Mr. President has made mutual visits under the name of a game diplomacy. On this occasion, valuable MPs, as the National Movement Party, I would like to briefly share with you some suggestions on our relations with this Hodja and Azerbaijan. First: Armenia's armed elements must withdraw unconditionally from the seven rails around Karabakh, where Azerbaijan's sovereignty must be restored. Two: After the invasion and captivity of Upper Karabakh, it must be ensured that our family members, who have become refugees and immigrants, will return home, return to their lands, and pay for their losses. It's a fact that the Minsk triad, founded for the purpose of solving the Karabag issue, has been nothing but a distraction, a diversion, a silence, and a mutual strategic advantage of global power centers, and a tool for Karabag's goals. In order not to cause a new Kashmir case, regional actors and parties, especially our country, must take initiative and be involved in the process. I would say that there is no peace and quiet for any of us, until the tears of Hodja are wiped out, before the upper toad is at peace. No matter what he does, no matter what game or scenario he strikes, with the permission of God, Hodja will remain a part of Azerbaijan, and he will remain a part of Azerbaijan. Dear MPs, on the other hand, those who seek to bring the Turkish nation's name together with genocide, and those who dare to question the 1915 events, stop deflecting historical facts, but first let them show their regret and confess to the savagery of Hodjalı. Parts of Stonenak terror that have infiltrated us, have special directives to see and display our beloved nation as genocideists, and my message to you is that if you are still not completely free of humanity, if your consciences are not completely immune, you will hand over the rights of Hodja, and you will strongly condemn the most brutal attack of the 21st century. According to us, to give credit to Hodja, to hear his pain deep down, we need moral and national conscience, and once again, honoring our holy history, bragging about our conscience. No matter what geography in the world, I am Turkish. It is necessary for the hearts to feel and carry the anxiety, sorrow, and happiness of a man who says, "I am Turkish." For us, every member of the Turkish nation, any person who is pleased to be part of this great historical power is an enormous value that cannot be replaced. In this way, we have the spirit of a nation, which is not limited to geography, that is not trapped in narrow spaces, and thanks to its consciousness, we have it, and we are integrated into it. As a matter of fact, if we can't cry in Ankara, if we don't resist the persecution of Bosnia and Turkey in Edirne, if we don't deal with the suffering of East Turka in Yozgat, if we don't welcome the breeze of Euthken at the seven peaks of İstanbul, and if we can't embrace the call of Mecca, please tell us, how can we survive and continue as a nation? Dear MPs, once again, I condemn the massacre of Hoxhalı, the atrocities of the Azerbaijan brothers who have died in this massacre. I salute your great delegation with the mercy of God, the condolences of the people of Azerbaijan, and the patience of the Azerbaijan once again.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0020par0182	Thank you, Mr. Rock. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Ankara MP Seyit Sertjelik. Here you go, Mr. Toughness. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0021par0187	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the Hodja massacre. I salute your high council. Twenty years ago on February 26, 1992, in the village of Hodja Hodja, 63 children, 106 women, and 70 elderly, 613 innocent Azerbaijan Turks massacred civilians in the city of Armenia. These numbers are known and recorded, but the size of the massacre is actually much larger. The fate of 1,275 Azerbaijan and Ahiska Turks, taken hostage by Armenians, is still unclear. About 500 people were injured because of the attacks. On the other hand, those who witnessed the massacre that day, or who lost their relatives, are still suffering the spiritual traumas of this massacre, which is beyond reason and humanity, and they feel the pain of the massacre every day. In addition, 100 thousands of Azerbaijan Turks who fled from Karabağ from death are trying to survive as fugitives in Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan), while 20 per cent of Azerbaijan's territory is still under Armenian occupation. As journalists and investigators who were able to enter the area a few days after the massacre stated, the scene where the massacre took place is terrifying, and the broken bodies spread across the land covered with snow. In the expression of The Times correspondent Anatol Lieven, some bodies are left with only a face on the body of a little girl who has been subjected to severe torture, damage. In the study, gunshot residue has been found around the entrance holes in several dead bodies. These desperate people's lives have been ended on purpose and on the basis of weapons. Members of parliament, Armenians have burned Hodjalı before in 1905-1907. Hoxhalı, who facilitated the control of the central city of Karabağ in the mountains, was repeatedly exposed to Armenian attacks due to strategic property, while in 1992, it became history with those who did not leave town and were massacred. As it is known, the origins of the Mountain Karabuk problem go back almost two hundred years. In order to win the war between Russia and Iran, 1826-1828, the Armenians fought alongside the Russians, served them as spies, did everything in their material spiritual power. As a result, 40,000 Armenians living in southern Iran, with Russia winning the war, have first migrated from that region to modern - day Mount Karabag. In 1828-29 the Ottoman-Russian War, the Armenians gave every support to the Russian army to win the war. During this war, when Eastern white Turkey was invaded, the Armenians who lived in the region slaughtered over a thousand civilian Muslims. This was the first civil Muslim massacre in history committed by the Armenians in the Ottoman state. Thus, until this date, these qualities of Armenians, known as faithful, have ended. After the war, 90 thousand Armenians migrated to the land in Russia's hands and settled in the regions of Erivan and Upper Karabag. Prior to these wars, the Turkish population is 76 per cent in the capital of today's Armenia, the province of Erivan. The Armenian migrations to the region after the war purposed to consciously change the population of the region and to cut off natural communication routes to Turkey's brothers who live in the geography from Azerbaijan to Central Asia. Thus, the foundations of today's Karabuk problem were laid in 1828. The MPs acted with the will to destroy the members of a nation that was not their own while killing the Armenians in Karabağ, and slaughtered children, women, and old. The painful memories of the teaching massacre are still very fresh. Human Rights Watch has also been accepted as a Hodja, ▪Katliam, by human rights organizations and international media bodies. These descriptions are also confirmed by the Armenians' own statements. As planned for political, social and economic interests in Anatolia about a hundred years ago, 613 people are dumb when it comes to the subject of tortures that could not fit mankind with great spiritual and physical suffering, both Armenian and diaspora, who have done everything they could to get the world public and our country to accept it at every opportunity. Armenia and the diaspora, who twist and twist the 1915 events into words and accuse Turkey of having nothing to be ashamed of in its past, have taken on every basis as a state policy, and when it comes to the crime of humanity they committed yesterday in Hodja, I didn't see it, I didn't hear it, I don't know it. The Armenians tried to reflect it as an ordinary, natural conflict during the Battle of Karabago by describing it to international public and human rights organizations. In this case, they also display their traditional attitudes, trying to hide their crimes through widespread propaganda activities. Even with the Armenians' arguments, war crimes have been committed. Because according to the law of armed conflict with Geneva contracts and additional protocols and fundamentals, the fighting parties -- side or not -- are obliged to pay the utmost attention to the protection of non-warlers' lives, civilians' lives. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, the world's public opinion has been insensitive to the Hodja massacre. The detection of several human rights organisations after the incident has not been taken seriously on the international level of Hodja massacre, except reports of massacres by some media organs. The world, which considers life and honor to be the greatest value, is unaware of this massacre in the modern age. Yet, even the perpetrators confessed to their massacre and even took their actions as a source of pride. For example, British journalist Thomas de Waal asked for the Hodja massacre during a meeting with Serj Sarkissian, who then commanded Armenian troops. The answer of Sarkisyan is exemplary in the interview held in this British journalist's book, "Black Garden. " Look, Sarkissian says: "We don't want to talk about it out loud. Azerbaijan didn't think we could attack civilians until they were taught. But in Hodja, we broke that cliche, and that's the point. We also need to accept the fact that our troops who attacked Hodja were Armenians who fled from Baku and Sumbait. I think these statements are the best evidence of the massacre the Armenians committed in Hodja. Outside Azerbaijan and Pakistan today, only the Mexican Parliament condemned the massacre and moved to the Hungarian Parliament to discuss the massacre. However, Western countries have remained insensitive and have shown no serious reaction to the Hodja massacre, except for one or two human rights organizations such as Human Rights Watch, Memorial Human Rights Organization. In 2001, Ermenistan killed and destroyed all the Hodjas prepared by Azerbaijan in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. (ÇT/TK) Congressmans, there's also a tragic aspect to the Armenian attitude. The Armenians did not only distort their massacres, but they did not fail to use images, photographs of the people they brutally murdered at Hodjalı as documents of the so-called Armenian genocide. Sadly, in the world's advanced communication environment, the negative effects of these distortions of information have also been shown on our citizens in our country. Unfortunately, some ulterior motives in our country are also involved in these and other campaigns. However, the massacres of the Karabakh Armenians in Hodjal are a painful lesson given to mankind in the 20th century and to mankind in the modern age. The world's public must learn its share of the truth. And justice for him, and justice for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, and for him, twenty years.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0022par0206	Thank you, Mr. Toughness. Members of parliament, now on behalf of non-members, İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0023par0209	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, all massacres, like all crimes of humanity, we curse the massacre of the teacher together after twenty years. But it's not enough to curse, it's necessary to question the reasons for these crimes of humanity and the forces behind them. Like all massacres, the imperialist plans, the spreading policies and the interstate issues of collaborative governments are being orchestrated as a way of solving problems and affecting piles. Now, yesterday, a protest was held in Istanbul, which led to a major debate, especially the Minister of Interior's speech. It seems that this protest protest is not only protesting the Hodja massacre, it is clear that there is a state organization that the government has done once again to influence society in its policies, not in its unresolved historical problems, but in the Armenian problem of our country, especially in the coming of April 24th. Mr. Secretary has just spoken as if he's giving self-criticism here, but a hate crime has been expressed in the mouth of the Minister himself, an anti-enemy against our Armenian brothers who live in our country, in this land. Now, how do we share these feelings? So today, the Prime Minister says that we represent 75 million. Among these 75 million are Armenian citizens and brothers. It seems that the leaders of the state of Turkey, as the AKP's government connects with imperialist policies in the region, face history, instead of lighting history, are heading towards more warrior and conquest policies. It won't do any good to the people of our country. When it is seen, it is almost as if a minister is sharing in a public criminal environment in this country. How will those who live in this country trust the government, the government, justice, and the future? As the People's Democratic Congress, we are fighting for a free republic of free peoples in Turkey, of all peoples, of beliefs, of languages, of ideas, of free lives, and in the Armenian issue, whether it be 1915, the massacre of teachers, other crimes of humanity, the real reckoning of all of these and the non-empirementalistic plans, the approach of such tragedies will have to be dealt with in a cold, democratic, human way. Every year, when we remember these massacres, the contrary, will once again cause our new Armenian brothers to be slaughtered, as in yesterday's landscape, to grow up a spiteful generation such as Samast on that day, to have no friends other than Turk, racist, Turkish, Turkish. The idea of living among the nationalist people will grow up. That's an expression that none of us will desire. When we shed light on our history, when the oppressed people see their true enemies, when their imperialist plan eliminates the collaborative rulers of these plans, when we have our own destiny, then we will truly be dealt with with by such crimes of humanity. And as I finish my words... all the people of the world are brothers. All the peoples living in Turkey are brothers to all the peoples living in the world's human society, especially the Turks. And I'm completing my words, saying, "Long live the brotherhood of the peoples."
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0024par0218	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Congressmans, we have friends entering the system, so I'll make a promise in order. One moment, please. Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0025par0223	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, the important thing here is that if peace is sought, we are all Armenians. Those who say "We are all teachers" should also say "We are all teachers." Sarkissian is the person who played a role in today's massacre of Armenia's President and Hodjalı. It's written in their own statements and in foreign newspapers. Therefore, if law and justice are wanted, if friendship is sought and brotherhood is sought, peace is sought, then Sarkisyan will have to be tried in international courts as war criminals and genocide. If the world can't do that, then we won't be able to maintain this peace. So, even if Sarkissian is President today, he is a war criminal and a genocideist. All foreign newspapers, especially British newspapers, state that. Therefore, in the book of Armenia and Azerbaijan, especially written by Thomas Wall, these are the statements of Sarkisyan, and he knows himself that he is a war criminal. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0026par0226	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0027par0229	Mr. President, thank you. Dear lawmakers, Friday 17/2/2012, 12 of our friends, our fellow citizens, received the mercy of God, as a result of a leak and a blow in one of the projects involving the Hes (hessere) in the location of the Seyhan River in Adana Kozan, on Friday (February 17/2/2012). Two of them were found, and his funeral was performed, and the others were lost. I'm here to draw the attention of the House, and when I say God bless those who have died here, I ask the House, the government, the bodies that have not been found, that these HES projects should be followed deeply and seriously.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0028par0232	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Dear Metiner... no. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0029par0236	Thank you, Mr. President. February 28th postmodern coup and all other blows are tyranny, tyranny, and unlawfulness. Those who supported them at that time were well - intentioned. We look forward to the days in our country when democracy, the free will of the people, would have no more tyranny over this Assembly. And to do that, I want to say that we need to get this new constitution done and get rid of this coup law once and for all, and that this coup law is still under way today when our eight MPs, thousands of voters, are under arrest. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0030par0239	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0031par0242	Thank you, Mr. President. Interior Minister Mr. Şahin took the microphone at the protest rally at the Hodja massacre, and in fact, as an interpreter for the feelings of the crowd there and for the people, he ordered the massacre of Armenians in Karabakh, whose families were children in Karabağ, young and old. We applaud, and we find it very meaningful to apologize to the Armenians for a statement given by AKP İstanbul MP Ismet Urmat. However, I would like to share with you the following: the Mint General Directorate has given an electronic passport tender to the French National Assembly of France and the French Gemalto, the main shareholder of the presidency, two days after the French Parliament adopted the racist law. This company, where its chips are unsafe all over the world, is now seeking an e-identity tender for the Population and Citizenship General Directorate, which is now worth about $1 quadrillion. TUBITAK wants to be removed. While the AKP raises its voice to France to silence its rising public response, on the other hand, we consider the fact that it is hypocritical to French firms for millions of dollars. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0032par0246	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Mr. Kuyoglu... no. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0033par0250	Thank you, Mayor. Hakan Fidan and his friends were summoned to testify at İstanbul Special Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, and the appointment of 700 police officers was released to the public. Is it because the government is afraid that law enforcement officers can tell us anything? Why were these transfers stopped? What's the reason? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0034par0253	Thank you. Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0035par0256	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow MPs, the name of Mr. Atef Hodja of Iskilli, has been given to İskilp State Hospital. Who is this Istyllite Atef Hodja? He is one of the founders of the Teali Islamic Society, which distributes the declarations by Greek planes in Anatolia, saying that the British and Greeks are at the king's side and that Mustafa Kemal and his friends are rebels and religious enemies. So now it's a skill to extradite traitors to make enemies of Mustafa Kemal and his friends. From now on, I recommend to the AKP's Government:
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0036par0258	Bullshit, bullshit...
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0035par0259	...the name of Dervis Mehmet, who martyred Kublai, in Menemen, should be given to either a school or a military barracks. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0037par0261	Ahmet Hodja of Iskulip is a hero.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0038par0262	Mr. Unuvar...
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0039par0264	Thank you, Mr. President. The Hodja massacre is not only Azerbaijan's problem, it is also Turkey's problem, the Turkish world, the Islamic world, even humanity's problem because crime against humanity has been committed. Therefore, the Hodja massacre is remembered in our country more than ever this year. Because today, no man on earth can tolerate a new teacher's brutality. We've had panels, symposiums, memorial meetings in many of our universities this year. There have been exhibitions in many places, including our State Department and Parliament. Our Foreign Affairs Commission and the Azerbaijan Friendship Group have issued a statement telling the violence. Because our goal is not to forget and forget the massacre of the teacher, as our Prime Minister today stated. By the way, today I consider the annulment of the French Constitutional Court's bill for genocide as a triumph of reason. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0040par0268	Thank you, Mr. Unüvar. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0041par0271	Mr. President, thank you. I also condemn the massacre of Hodja. However, the spirit of the martyrs in the Hodja massacre depends on opening the road between Azerbaijan and Turkey. There is an hour and a half journey from the gate of Aktaş to Zagatala. With the direction and support of Mr. Inspired Aliyev, Georgia built this road, but the Turkish side's door is still closed. I request that this door be opened and our relations with Azerbaijan be developed and the road be opened for an hour and a half. I want them to consider this strictly in the Council of Ministers. If this Crazy Aktaş Gate opens, it will be an hour and a half between Azerbaijan and Turkey, and Turkey's relations with Azerbaijan will grow further. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0042par0274	Thank you. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0043par0277	Thank you, Mr. President. I strongly condemn those who did the teaching massacre. The teaching massacre is a major attack on humanity. The teacher's massacre must be claimed by all civil society organizations around the world, especially the United Nations, and those who have committed the massacre must be questioned. The teaching massacre is a human drama, a crime of humanity. Whoever committed this crime, even the president, must answer to the world. The Armenians must withdraw from their occupied territory immediately. Nearly 1 million people are now devastated and expect that I will return to my own land. Surely the modern world must possess those people as the world that knows the value of mankind, and hear their voices. I also say that the date of February 26th should be announced as a day of genocide in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and it should be declared a day of slaughter to the world. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0044par0283	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0045par0286	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are today the 15th year of the February 28, 1997 intervention. We believe that the intervention of February 28th is a desecration against the will of the nation, which aims to narrow down politics and the scope of democracy from the outside. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we oppose and condemn the people's will, the Turkish Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the political power that has been removed from this Parliament, for whatever reason, whoever owns it, and whoever owns it. However, as a freak, as a contradiction, the talks of February 28th have forgotten what February 28th had done after power. The problems of that day continue today, unfortunately. I present it to our nation. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0046par0291	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, Mr. Nihat Ergun wanted to respond to the proposals from the agenda of the agenda of.27, 42, 112, 116, 151, 164, 185, 194, 210, 246, 248, 254, 255, 269, 275, 289, 301, 333, 340, 35, 365, 368, 384, 390, 396, 398, 526, 813, and 813. I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Kazdağs have been the target of the mines and gold seekers of recent years, who have given life between the province of Çanakkale and the provinces of Balıkesir, who have embraced humanity, civilization and life for 5,000 years, and have been legendary between mythology and real life. In public, in the press, in the Çanakkale and Balıkesir people, in order to uncover doubts and concerns about the Kazdağs, to be enlightened by the public, to be presented to the public the truth about the mining and business work in the Kazdağs, the 98th and the Inner Charter 104-105th. In accordance with the clauses, we would like to submit a parliamentary investigation for additional reasons. The Kazdağs are the most important mountain in Turkey, which is located in the southeastern part of the Biga Peninsula, in the direction of Ayvalik/Balya, in the region of Çanakkale and Balıkesir, and also in the region between the Marmara region and the Aegean region. In the Çanakkale region of Kazdağ, Ayvacık, Bajramic, Çall and Yenice were the towns of Balıkesir, Edremit, Havran, Ivrindi and the villages of Balya and the Kazdağs, which had been the home and habitat of a large population for centuries. There are eight counties on the slopes and foothills of the Kazdağs, 20 cities, and about 330 villages where life is alive. The world's second richest oxygen-generating mountain and the richest waterbeds in Asia Minor and the most vital needs of mankind, the Kazdağs, along with the discovery of precious minerals and gold hidden in their hearts, have been the cruel goal of mankind. The Kazdağs form the world's richest flora with about 800 species of plants and 47 types of endemic plants. It also created its own fauna with 40 animal species, attracting attention with its living family. Its geological and geomorphological structure was replaced by the rich plant species and the Bosphorus and Edremit Gulf winds in the world's second rich mountain of oxygen produced by the Alps in Switzerland. As Agonya, Kabaş, Kara Menderes, Akkin, Tuzla, Mühlı, Edremit and Menderes move to large areas, their natural waterfalls (Bayramic), Handeresi (Newce-Kakm), Pınarbaşı (Edremit-Gure), and Hasanboğed (Edremit-Zeytinli) waterfalls continue to shout among other valleys that they are always ready for tourism and ecoturism. The region of Çanakkale, Ayvacık, Bajramic, Çanakkale, the richest and most popular areas in the districts of Edremit Bay, and Yenice, were declared National Park in 1993, and continued to be considered national park. In these areas, they expect to become national parks as areas in need of our government's compassion and protection. In light of this information, some 70 mining licenses, construction permits, construction permits, construction permits, and drilling permits have been attacked by the Kazdağs of humanity by a great mountain of Kazdağs, who are in need of protection, created for tourism. The discovery and examination of mining works created in the Kazdağs; the detection of new areas that need to be protected in the Kazdağs and declared National Park; the establishment of the Kazdağ strategic plan of the Kazdağs; the detection and size of foreign companies, especially for gold exploration and business in the region for years; the proposal was submitted to the Assembly, in order to determine facts, based on the policy of mines in the Kazdağneses, to determine the concerns and expectations of our people; it is a historical duty to do research. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Mersin]] [[Kütahya]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kastamon]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Manisa]] [[Inconceived]] 13) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Antalya]] [[Erzurum]] 17) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the interest of investigating the issues of Aksaray Province, we would like the Constitution to be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution to determine measures to be taken, including legal arrangements to be made. Aksaray, B.C. 8. Its history, dating back to a thousand years, has never lost its importance because of its cultural existence, its beauty, and its commercial center, of various civilizations that have ruled until now. Aksaray, which is the gate of Cappadocia, offers her natural wealth and visitors different and interesting vacation opportunities as well as cultural assets. Aksaray, one of the major centers of the historic Silk Road in the Central Anatolian region, is now located at the intersection of main links between east-west and north-south. It has become an attractive centre in the middle of Asia Minor, with its beautiful yurtlu, Ihlara Valley, Sultan Hanı, Curri Minare, and its winter sports tourist centre, the Hasan Mountain and Ziga Spas. ==History==Aksaray Ili was released from the Archaeological site of Acemhöyük Könen in Yeşilova County in 1962 and has been on display today at the Niğde Museum. As of today's excavations, Acemhöyük's B.C. It showed that in the former Bronze Age settlements, the dwellings were made up of rectangular or crooked brickworks. In this period, the dead are buried in graves of earth and cubes outside the settlement. The dead were left with rings, bracelets, earrings, necklaces, and some vessels as a gift. In addition, jewelry, weapons, and everyday items made of stone, bones, and various metals have been seized. The surface research conducted by scientists is important to show that the period was intense and uninterrupted in Aksaray, which was brought to the Aksaray Museum by citizens with a large number of ancient Bronze Age materials collected from the mounds found in our province. The construction of the cultural and tourism conservation and development zone in this region will contribute greatly to the development of the region. Our province of Aksaray is a major province of our country with its agricultural potential and agricultural production. In our province, the vast majority of our people deal with agriculture and livestock, and they earn their living from agriculture and livestock. Our farmers live in great distress. There is no production in our region except for the usual agricultural diversity. The area farmer must be cleared up by the institutions and organizations involved in the alternative product pattern. Our farmers need to be consciously identified and correctly identify the soil's appropriate product pattern, to be implemented by creating projects and plans for it. In our region, the spread of organic agriculture must be supported by our farmers who produce organic agriculture. Aksaray is also a place to grow in livestock and nutrition. A serious investigation into dairy cattle and animal food. Aksaray University will contribute greatly to the development of our province. Our university is only two years old. Since there is no university hospital, university officials and students are taking advantage of state hospitals and different clinics. Why can't a medical school open our university? So the University Hospital can't be opened because it's not a medical school. It's a great loss to our Aksaray. Investigate the situation. In Aksaray, it's called thermal tourism, and Ziga Spas come to mind. Thirty miles to Aksaray. It's on its way to Ihlara at a distance. It is good for cases of metabolic disorders, digestive tract disease, skin disease, eye disease, and women's disease, including rheumatisms, and neurogia, nephritis, and broken dislocations. Our spas can provide more modern, more capable services. Investigating the hot springs. Aksaray-Medizköy-Kırşehir is on the agenda of the divided road construction of the situation. Aksaray's irrigation and drinking water became a problem on its own. Although Aksaray is above water sources, he has faced the danger of dehydration in the coming days, and serious research is required. The tea from Mt. Aksaray Hasan and Melendiz fell on the Dam of Mamadez and the tea dried. Because of global warming, the water level of Melendiz tea has fallen quite low. There should also be serious research here. For these reasons, a parliamentary investigation is required to be launched, in order to find the issues in place, to clarify the matter, and to take the necessary precautions. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Elazığ]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] [[Inconceived]] [[Erzurum]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 14) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Kastamon]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In 2005, under the Law No. 5300 adopted under the "Property Products Licensed Warehouse Act," the Constitution of the 98th Amendment has been identified by researching the reasons for its lack of interest and lack of interest by our manufacturers. The 104th edition of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Committee. And 105. In accordance with the terms of the matter, we would like to submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research. The licensed storage system, which was intended to be expanded by tax and agricultural incentives in 2005 as part of the "Production of Stock Exchanges" project, which has been under way with the World Bank for many years, has been implemented under the 5300 "Agreement Products Licensed Storage Act," but has not provided sufficient attention and efficiency in the past period of time. The aim of the law is "to facilitate the trade of products, to create a widespread system for storage, to ensure the safety of product owners' goods and quality of goods, to ensure that the classes and degrees of products will be identified by authorized limiters, to ensure that the licensed warehouse operators accept their products regardless of their own, to represent the ownership of products and to develop the product's sales and delivery, and to develop the trade of the products set standards." Our farmers, who are producers in our country in the agricultural sector, are seen to have low prices in many crops, particularly grains, as soon as they harvest their crops, and are often forced to sell them below its cost. Because in order to pay off the debt he received during the production process, he has to cash in his product as soon as possible. He also needs to remove it immediately, as there is no storage room to store or hold its product. All segments of society as consumers are negatively affected by these developments. The Agricultural Products Storage Law, which is thought to be applied to protect our producers from these negative developments, will have a positive impact on both producers and consumers because the product supply will be more controlled if it is well applied. Because the manufacturer, who delivers his product to a licensed warehouse in exchange for a document, will be able to use this document as collateral to get financing from the bank. At the same time, he will be able to endorse the product in his possession to market his product at the most affordable time. Thus, the industry or exporter using agricultural products as input will also be freed from speculators. Because industrial and exporters, who have no means of storage or want to avoid high stock costs, will be able to meet their needs at any time from licensed warehouses, and will be able to plan on supplying raw materials. Another contribution this practice will give to the agricultural sector is that it will expand the registration system in the sector, and in many products it will install a documenting system linked to quality and standards. More importantly, the storement of the product produced by the manufacturer at great length in hygienic and healthy environments will provide significant advantages for both the seller and the buyer. The lack of interest in this licensed storage system, which is thought to be implemented by this law, suggests that the fact that there are some wrong, wrong, or incomplete regulations, should be investigated, which we are trying to explain above, should be investigated for the reasons why this work, which will benefit both producers and consumers and exporters, can't be popularized or unable to have enough attention. In accordance with the facts described above, we offer the establishment of the Parliamentary Research Commission in order to determine the reasons why licensed storage activities do not become widespread under the "Profits Licensed Storage Act" and why our producers do not have interest. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] [[Inconceived]] [[Antalya]] 13) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Kastamon]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] Congressmans, the motions for research have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation led by Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Cemil Cicek will make an official visit to Ukraine to respond to the invitations of Ukrainian Parliament Speaker Volodimir Litvin. The Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. In accordance with the clause, it is submitted to the approval of the General Assembly. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation headed by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Cemil Cicek, will make an official visit to Poland to respond to Polish Parliament Speaker Ewa Kopacz's invitation to the event, dated 28/3/1990 and under the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, 3620. In accordance with the clause, it is submitted to the approval of the General Assembly. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Congressmans, the Council of Counsellors has a proposal that I will have read and process and submit to your votes. The following proposals were approved by the General Assembly at a meeting Tuesday (28/02/2012). In less than 48 hours, the 171-line bill, which was distributed under pressure, was adopted into the 2nd ranking of the Council's Law and Other Trades from the Commissions, and the ranking of other tasks according to its order, March 01, 2012, Thursday, when the 98th Bill of Legislature continues its work until its talks are completed. It's recommended. Anyone want a word on the proposal? No. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't... Motion accepted. Now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/68) My main Law Proposal is 37 of the Civil Charter, since it is not available in 45 days. I respectfully recommend that the clause be taken directly into consideration. On the proposal, Mr. Öğümün, please. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0047par0512	Mr. President, dear friends, I have made a pledge to the children of poor families and the children of elementary school to drink milk, so that the state can give them free milk. I salute you all. Dear friends, according to the World Bank 2007 Development Report, 20 million poor families have been identified in Turkey. 20 million poor families can't feed properly. Especially our children, children in kindergarten and elementary school, can't feed on both intelligence and calcium. Beyond that, Turkey unfortunately doesn't have milk consumption. A cup of tea is $1, milk is 60 cents, 70 cents, or a liter of water is 120 cents, a liter of milk is 60 cents. Then what's going on? Our 25 million farmers who deal in agriculture and livestock are extremely miserable; they don't pay for milk, they don't hide cows or female animals because they don't pay for milk; they take the female animal to the Festival of Sacrifices, so if there's a million cattle, they're 40 percent. Then what's going on? In Turkey, there is a slaughter of female animals, because there is a female animal slaughter, where livestock goes backwards, Turkey is forced to bring animals from the outside; and when it brings animals from the outside, then 25 million villagers are in great trouble; they can't do livestock, they don't pay animals, they migrate to major cities because they don't pay milk. The expense of the citizen who emigrated to the big city because he emigrated to the big city is more expensive to the state because when he goes to the big city, it costs him more money, because when he goes to the big city, the state will give him roads, sidewalks, electrics, water, natural gas, and more money, because it will provide resources, services. However, family business is developed, it serves in its village, and if people's milk is paid for in its village, then -- 25 million people -- family business will develop, and when family business develops, there will be less damage to the state, and livestock will develop. How will livestock develop? If milk costs, friends, milk consumption, if we give milk to children for free, milk consumption to elementary school children, kindergarten students is too much; since milk consumption is too much, everyone hides cows, cows give birth to cows when they hide, cattle grow. So when you do the shepherd's reckoning, the milk has to pay for the growth of livestock. I'm even saying that sometimes the Minister of Agriculture has to be milk-brained, he has to think about milk, how milk makes money, milk is consumed... then if the cow hides, the cow breeds calf, otherwise known as cattle, animalism automatically develops. Dear friends, that's why our territory lives on livestock. Now, it's black winter, believe me, honestly, people can't feed their animals. The hay weighs 80 cents a pound. So the animal's not worth anything, it can't sell in winter. To spring the winter, to feed the animal, to feed the animal, people are applying for loans to banks. The banks don't have a policy. They don't lend 5 million or 10 million loans. I'm asking the government, in this winter, at least lend money to our people who work in agriculture and livestock from banks, let these people take it on credit, feed it, feed its animals, spring the winter. Otherwise, our people are in a very difficult situation. Therefore, this law requires your help in bringing up my proposal, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0048par0518	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. On the motion, Ugur Bayraktutan, Artvin MP. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0049par0523	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the proposal of Ardahan MP Ensar Öğün for the adoption of milk for the children of the poor families and elementary school students based on Article 37 of the Civil Code. I salute your High Council. Before we begin with my words, I would like to first share a joyful development with the great House. The Constitutional Council of France has annulled the law, which stipulates that the rejection of Armenian claims regarding the 1915 cases is considered a crime. This is a very pleasant development. I have shared with you the decision made by the Constitutional Council, which is crucial to the importance of freedom of expression in France. This means that the separation of forces is very important to show how important the distinction between legislation, executive and judicial bodies is to a democracy. I just shared it with Mr. Haluk Kokozy, our Samsun MP, who was the head of the executive body, President Sarkozy, wanted to impose a law on the legislature, and he tried to do what he had to do to get it passed through Parliament, but the judiciary had to cancel it in a sense. There's someone who's failing in that sense, and I'd like to point out that French President Sarkozy has failed in terms of interfering with the Constitutional Court. French President Sarkozy has not been able to take over the Constitutional Court, and in that sense, I see him as an incompetent President. On this occasion, I would like to express my satisfaction with this decision once again. I sincerely support our congressman's motion. Before we go into technical details and information about this, of course, we have a very short period of time, and I've received the total number of animal assets as of the years in Turkey. I've seen how important a comparison between 2000 and 2010 is. In 2000, there were 46,600,000 animals totaled in Turkey. Our number of animals in 2002, when the AKP was in power, was around 41 million,89,000 animals in Turkey, and there were 40 million 902,000 animals in 2010. In 2005, there was a serious break in milk production, my friends. Because of this breaking point, the milk prices are going through the roof, an amazing cut of animals emerges. Now that we're here, we're facing a serious problem. On the one hand in Turkey, the so-called "family animalism" is unfortunately not supported by the government, but rather, there is support for large businesses that are doing it. We have problems with the credit system, but it's really important that Mr. Congressman's motion to support the milk producers, and I believe that there will be a huge contribution to the education of both families and poor families and students. It's an important motion. I hope this proposal of the law will be supported by our House. On this occasion, I'd like to say a few things about my locality. Friends, last week, ten days ago, a tender was made at Artvin's General Directorate for Mining Affairs to run a mine on Artvin. We had talks with Mr. Minister about this tender, including representatives of all the political parties of Artvin, representatives of democratic mass organizations, the mayor of our ruling party. Despite warning that the tender to be held at this Surgeontepe is in a place where the verdict has been halted, that a murder has been committed because of this tender to be held there, that there is a legal murder involved, so that this tender should not be held, Mr. Secretary said he would make the necessary assessment, that he would compare the riches on the ground with the riches on the ground, and that he would make an assessment based on which is more valuable. I don't think the Minister put the Artvins above ground in his evaluation. In this respect, I told him then and when we visited him in his office, this tender was a package contract. We said, "This is a tender that is free of objective general criteria." It's a contract that will cause a social explosion in Artvin. I believe the tender has not yet been approved by Mr. Ministry, and the ministry and its relevant directorate will waive this tender process, and Artvin will stop this murder of the law which is intended to be committed in Artvin. I want it known once again: I am honored to address this from the bench of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Whatever the circumstances, the Artvins will never allow that mine to be mined within the limits of the law. And I'm calling from here to the company that received the contract, don't have any pink dreams. After a huge legal struggle, we fired the Canadian company Artvin, and with this tender, we would treat the other company who wanted to commit murder in the same way as local lawmakers, once again from the temple of Ataturk, from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0050par0535	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We move on to the agenda's part of the above - the - word questions. Members of the law, as we stated in the presentations section, I'm reading the oral questions Mr. Nihat Ergün, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, which Mr. Nihat Ergün wanted to answer together: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, the following questions should be answered verbally by the Minister of Trade and Customs Mr. Hayati Printer. 14.7.2011 It is difficult for our countrymen to enter and exit daily from the gate of Turkgözü, Ardahan Posof district. In addition to building the upper and lower structure, automation operations must be done through the door in order for our fellow citizens to benefit from the door, which provides for their living under difficult circumstances. 1) Ardahan Posof district has been forced to make daily trade at the Turkish-Eye gate. Trade will develop in the region and the migration will stop, with the opening of their way in and out, easier to encourage trade. Will new measures be taken for this? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Science, Industry and Technology. 27.7.2011 In 1951, Turkey met with the techno park, known as Silicon Valley, in the United States, at the end of the 90s. Turkey has soon come a long way in this fast race. The number of technokents established by the Middle East Technical University and the University of Marmara in 1998 reached 39, as of today, and the technokents, including nearly 2,000 companies, employ about 15,000 people. Again, exports are worth millions of pounds in these technokents. Technokents, which have traveled large distances in 1-39 years, will spread throughout every area of the provinces, especially in every province with state universities. Do you have a study to build a technocity in each province? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Nihat Ergün, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology. The Feza Gürsoy Institute, founded on TÜBITAK, was founded to study basic sciences, was founded to develop fundamental sciences that constitute the basis of technology. If Turkey wants to boost its power in short-term competition around the world, it should support more, not destroy further research into basic science. 1- A new construction took place in our country and the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology was established. Do you have a study in the international scientific community today to halt the closure of this Feza Gürsoy Institute, which is having a serious reaction? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Science, Industry and Technology Nihat Ergün. 01/10/2011 On 1-28/09/2011, was the CED report taken at the time of the steel production facility owned by the POSCO Company, which you and Economy Minister Zafer Calayan laid the foundation in the Alexandria-Izmit region? 2-Do you think there are two OSBs in the area where you have laid the foundation, the OSBs in the center of the city and in the middle of the settlements of the OSBs (850 meters to Durhasan Village, 2.5 km to the Alikahya settlement), and the OSBs in all directions covered with housing sites, are appropriate for the future of the city we live in? 3- How do you feel about the permanent migration of the industrial city we live in, the pollution of its environment, and the lack of quality living spaces, the move or establishment of new industrial facilities in this region that are planned to be established to migratory cities? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 10.10.2011 What's the amount of help gathered in the organization of the Ministry of Religious Affairs to help Somalia? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Nihat Ergün, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology. Yours truly. There are a large number of industrial institutions within the center and borders of our Silivri County. We have many facilities in this area that produce from 30 to 40 years ago. But because we don't have an organized industrial district in this county, our industrialists are having a very important problem. To solve the problems of our industrialists, who employ tens of thousands of people; 1) Do you plan to establish an organised industrial zone in Silivri County? 2) Will the immediate solution to the problems of existing facilities be immediately applied to the "substantive organised industrial zone'? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Nihat Ergün, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology. Yours truly. There are a large number of industrial institutions within the centre and borders of Silivri County. Industrial facilities that produce and employ tens of thousands in this region, starting 30 to 40 years ago, are unable to achieve sufficient efficiency due to the lack of an organised industrial zone in the district. The lack of organised industrial territory creates uncertainty in the context of considering the investment and production opportunities of our industrialists. Industrialism is not enough to be felt because there are no organised industrial areas in the district. At this point, our industrialists are having big problems. To solve the problems of our industrialists who employ tens of thousands; 1) Do you plan to establish an organised industrial zone in Silivri County? 2) Will the implementation of the "substantive organised industrial zone" immediately be implemented to address the problems of existing facilities? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask the following questions to be answered verbally by Mr. Nihat Ergün, Minister of Industry and Trade. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light With the influence of economic crises in our country at certain times, many of our citizens, particularly our small- and medium-sized tradesmen and artists, are known to have had to close down their businesses. Regarding the problems of our tradesmen and artists, 1) How many tradesmen and artists still own small and medium-sized businesses in our country? How many of these have benefited from various loans provided by your ministry? 2) What are the numbers of our tradesmen and artists who have closed down their businesses over the past three years and opened new businesses? 3) Is there a ministry's work on the resolving of the problems of the tradesmen and artists and the fiscal and the restructuring of the debt of the SGK? 4) Can an arrangement be made to compensate for the health costs of our business and family members who owe an SEC bonus? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 07/10/2011 On Friday (August 26, 2011), Friday (August 26, 2011) a declaration was announced by religious officials of some mosques in Chile district that "Mr. Prime Minister will arrive and will be carried to the venue by city buses." The Prime Minister gave political speeches and spoke against opposition parties to the congregation going to the ceremony area. Isn't that the way mosques are used to politics? It was also searched by security forces in the congregation that entered the Chilean central mosque for Friday prayer. Besides, Mr. Prime Minister didn't pray Friday at this mosque. Is it possible that the Prime Minister will continue to perform Friday prayer in mosques, where he may or may not pray, to be disturbed by the search of the mosque community? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask the following questions to be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light Reports in the media and media recently said that the protection services and the prime minister's bodyguards have been overextended, leading to different public assessments. On the subject of this matter, 1) How many personnel are currently employed as prime minister's protection? How many of these act as active bodyguards? 2) What was the distribution of personnel employed as bodyguards during the 2002-2011 period? 3) Is it true that the prime minister's bodyguards claim that protection tools and equipment have been overextended recently? If so, what are the reasons for this? 4) What are the number and type of vehicles assigned to the prime minister's bodyguards? 5) Is it true that cameras have been installed, each of which can be shot at 360 degrees [ 360 degrees] and each of which is worth 50 or 60,000 dollars? If that's true, how many surveillance vehicles are there? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Nihat Ergün, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology. Yours truly. Cobis and medium-sized companies, whose capital structures are not strong, are able to supply most of their investment goods via leasing. The VAT rate in advance investments is 0 per cent, but is 18% for those provided via leasing. This practice creates substantially unfair competition for small and medium-sized companies. Will you do a joint study with the Ministry of Finance to reset VAT by 18% of the investment goods provided through Leassing? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following questions are 96 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the clause, I would like to request that it be addressed to the Prime Minister and answered verbally by the Prime Minister. 20.10.2011 At the rally in Eskişehir before the General Elections, you announced that Eskişehir would become the Turkish World Cultural Capital of 2013. Although the elections have been over so long, no serious initiative has been seen. It's about to be in this frame; 1) If Eskişehir really is the Turkish World Cultural Capital of 2013, what will its legal basis be? 2) Is there a law or regulation study on the subject? 3) When will such a decision be made? 4) Will any investments be made in Eskişehir for events to take place? 5) Will there be any partnership with the elected municipalities as representatives of the city for activities or investments? 6) Will the opinion of elected representatives of the city be received? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 25.10 2011 On October 23, 2011, what are the names and addresses of buildings that were fatally damaged from the structures of the Head of Religious Affairs, such as the Koran School and mosque in the Van-Ercish earthquake? What are the names and last names of those who died and were injured around here? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 25.10.2011 How many people died and were injured in the Arvasi Koran School during the Van Ercish earthquake on October 23, 2011? What is the date of this Koran School's opening date for education and teaching? Is it a Recitation in which there is a Recitation (i.e. the Quran)? Is there anyone in the Central Redstone Koran School who died and was injured? What are their names if they have one? What's the opening date for this course? Is it the boarding Koran? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 25.10.2011 On October 23, 2011, what are the dates of the Koran Schools and mosques that were damaged in the Van-Erish earthquake? Have the openings of these structures been called an earthquake-resistant condition? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 25.10.2011 Is the average for pilgrimage in Islamic countries ranked as pilgrims of our country? Is it true that the world's most expensive pilgrimage costs per person are in our country? Is there a trade-off of this religious mission under the leadership of the Ministry of Religious Affairs? In 2010, did the Ministry of Religious Affairs earn income and profit in the pilgrimage? What's the amount if he did? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 31.10.2011 On October 23, 2011, what is the total amount of aid that the President of Religious Affairs has collected in mosques for the Van-Ercish earthquake? What are the amount of help according to the provinces? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 02.11.2011 From January 01st 2010 to November 02st, 2011, where and when were the foreign and domestic travel of Mr. President of Religious Affairs? What's the amount of tuition-related income? What's the total amount of foreign travel and travel? How much foreign and foreign travel-related income has Mr. President been paid in these months? At these dates, Mr. Religious Affairs, what are the sums each of the vice presidents is paid separately in the same pens? 14.11.2011 The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I respectfully ask the following questions to be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light Regarding allegations and reports from national media that the budget for covered funds has been spent several times over; 1) What was the change in the budgets of the PM's covered funds as of 2002-2011? 2) How did the amount of spending under the name of covered funds change during the time mentioned? 3) Is it true that spending exceeds budgetary funds? 4) On what grounds did more money be spent than on budgets? 5) In the last three years, what is the distribution of spending over the budget of covered funds according to the spending areas? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 16/11/2011 How many mosques have been built in the Republic of Turkey every year since 1923? What's the number of mosques built year after year? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 23/11/2011 What is the overall sum of the spending of the Ministry of Religious Affairs for Happy Birth Week in 2010? What's the sum of the presidency's spending on this? What's the amount in each spending pen of the presidency? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Nihat Ergün, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology. 22/11/2011 Prof. Dr. E. Semih Yalçın According to media reports recently, statements by the Minister of Science, Industry and Technology say that young entrepreneurs who want to commercialise their ideas are targeted to be the bosses of their own business by providing 100,000-TL grants to 500 people from the grant of techno-introduction capital. At a meeting in the Istanbul Industrial Room in 2009, Mr. Minister said to critics of the support of techno-introduction capital, that those who have not been able to understand so much have sunk our money until today, and what will happen to those who are a little bit confused?" 1- In the years, how many people have benefited from the support of techno-entertainment capital, and what's the total amount of grant? 2- How many of the supports have been successful, how many have been sunk? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 23.11.2011 From 01.01.2002, what are the cost of staying, staying, listening to, and spending years and months on trips by the presidents of Religious Affairs abroad and abroad? From 01.01.2002, what are the cost of spending years and months on the journeys of the Vice Presidents of Religious Affairs abroad and abroad? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 25.11.2011 Why has the historical mosque of Eskişehir Seyitgazi district Seyit Battal Veterans been powered down since 01,01,10? When will the connection be made to this cut-off electricity? What has been done in this historic mosque so far regarding the difficulties of the congregation that hardly attends their meetings due to the power outage? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Science, Industry and Technology Nihat Ergün. Yours truly. Kahramanmarash is between 650 facilities and Turkey's number-one industrial centers. It has 17 companies, including the first and second 500 major industrial companies. Since the current organised industrial region cannot respond to the need, a new organised industrial area is needed in our province. 1. Are you planning to build a new organized industrial zone in Heromarash? Do you have any work to do? 2. When and where do you plan to set it up, if you're thinking of setting it up? What month do you plan to start infrastructure work? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, the following questions will be answered verbally by Mr. Nihat Ergün, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology. 30.11.2011 1. What are your projects and investments in Adana Ili and its districts by your ministry and its relevant institutions? 2. Does your ministry have any studies on the problems of Adana Province? If so, what are you? 3. In connection with public services in Adana Province, how much is the grant from the 2012 fiscal year budget? 4. Is there a staff shortage in Adana Province? If so, how will you compensate for the personnel deficit? 5. In regard to your field of duty, how do you assess the public services you've taken to Adana Province, in terms of regional balances? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Nihat Ergün, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology. According to State Officers Act 657 of public institutions and organisations, the staff they employ is obliged to employ 3% of the entire staff of the relevant institution or organisation. 1- In 2010 and 2011, what are the number of disabled staff employees that your Ministry and Ministry-related institutions and organisations have employed, according to Law 657, and the number of disabled personnel that should be employed? Under Law 2-657, does your ministry and your ministry have a disability deficit under the obligation to employ disabled personnel? If so, how much is the lack, and have the demands for the removal of this deficiency been forwarded to the State Staff President? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Science, Industry and Technology Nihat Ergün. Yours truly. Our Kahramanmarash province is highly developed in agriculture and livestock, as well as in the industrial sector. Therefore, in our province, new industrial areas are greatly needed. 1. What's the total cost of 187 businesses owned by Kahramanmarash Woodworks KSS, project number 1986K110120? 2. How much resources have been transferred so far? When do you plan to finish this project? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Science, Industry and Technology Nihat Ergün. Yours truly. In our town of Kahramanmarash, agriculture and animalism are highly developed, as well as the industrial sector. Thus, the need for new organised industrial areas in our province is increasing day by day. 1. What is the total amount of project in the Elbistan Organised Industrial Zone, project 1987K090220? 2. How much resources have been transferred so far? When do you plan to finish this project? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Science, Industry and Technology Nihat Ergün. Yours truly. In our town of Kahramanmarash, agriculture and animalism are highly developed, as well as the industrial sector. Thus, new industrial areas are widely needed in our province. 1. What's the total cost of 67 businesses owned by Kahramanmarash Terzis and Confectionists Shops and Artists Room in 1986K110120? 2. How much resources have been transferred so far? When do you plan to finish this project? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Nihat Ergün, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology. 27.12.2011 The Turkish economy has been through a major transformation process in recent years. In particular, exports are increasing, led by organised industrial areas. More than 50,000 new SMEs have a very important impact on employment. In our country, about 3,000 KOBIs are rebuilt each year. 1-The OSBs are an important application area for the development of the SMEs and for the better results of industrial policies. The directness of private sector investments to certain regions, the production of industrial enterprises to co-operate and adapt with each other, the construction of factories on a pre-planned land, and the use of joint infrastructure services, such as social facilities, are complementary. Will the OSB be spread? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Science, Industry and Technology Nihat Ergün. Yours truly. The head of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration (KOSGEB) was established to support small and medium industrial enterprises and tradesmen with various tools. 1. Our tradesmen and artists say they're not getting enough out of KOSGEB loans. Is that true? Why can't the tradesmen and the artists take advantage of KOSGEB loans? 2. Do you plan to give more support to the business and artists, among the most affected by the economic crisis? Do you have any work to do? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Nihat Ergün, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology. 27/12/2011 The Turkish economy has been through a major transformation process in recent years. In particular, exports are increasing, led by organised industrial areas. More than 50,000 new SMEs have a very important impact on employment. In our country, about 3,000 KOBIs are rebuilt each year. 1-The OSBs are an important application area for the development of the SMEs and for the better results of industrial policies. The directness of private sector investments to certain regions, the production of industrial businesses to co-operate and adapt to each other, the construction of factories on a pre-planned land, the use of joint infrastructure services, such as social facilities, are complementary. Will the OSB be spread? Mr. Nihat Ergün, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology to answer oral questions. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is thirty minutes. Mr. President, I'm here to answer questions asked to my person, Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of Customs and Trade. I salute you all. In the question of Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/13) Mr. Ensar Öğüt, it is said that crossings at Ardahan's Turkish Eye Border Gate are difficult and that people are difficult to trade. It has already been announced which pencils can be made on border trade at border crossings, but if the costs are related to products other than the scope of commercial products that individuals bring with them, they are done according to the measures set by the Ministry of Customs and Trade when the Council of Ministers has decided. These measurements are tax-free for non-trafficking goods that do not exceed 430 euros for adults; the limit for those under 15 years of age is 150 euros. Under 15 years of age, products worth less than 150 euros are able to bring in non-tax-free products. Thus, these are the measurements of bringing in products both at the Turkish Eye and at other border crossings. Those who act within these measures do not experience any difficulty, or the fight against trafficking is of course necessary. The measures for the fight against trafficking must continue. The question again of Mr. Öğün Ånün (6/72) is referred to as "Do you have a study on technocity in each province?" Dear friends, techno parks, technology development areas are really important for the development of technology and technology-oriented companies in our country. In 2002, Turkey had only two techno parks, including ODTU Technopark and TÜBITAK-MAM. Today, Turkey has reached 43 techno parks, and in these techno parks, nearly 3,000 technology companies are conducting research development activities and exporting over $1 billion of technological products from techno parks. You know, in all our provinces, our universities are now established. In parallel with the development of our universities, the leadership of our universities, the leadership of our industrial rooms and the leadership of our NGOs, and with the support of our ministry, we continue our efforts to build a technology development area in every province as much as possible, where every university is. As I've just said, in the last nine years, we've raised the number of techno parks that have been 2 to 43, and some of them continue to operate. In the question of Mr. Öğümün (6/101), do you have a study on the attempted closure of the Feza Gürsoy Institute? The Feza Gürsoy Institute is an institute of fundamental sciences and has been operating at Boğaziçi University since 1996, but the development of conditions has been decided that TÜBİTIAK (TÜBİTAK) will continue its activities at TÜBİTAK Gebze compound in July 2011 and continue its work as an institution within the Centre for Research for Information Security and Advanced Technologies. If it is appropriate for the Feza Gürsoy Institute to work in another field, or at the Boğaziçi University, or at Star Technique, or anywhere else, then of course, our approach to this matter will be positive. Besides, the stronger you are in basic science, the stronger you are in technological research. I'd like to say that we have more steps to take in basic science, that we need to go to new incentives, that we need to go to basic science incentives. For example, we need to explain here that students who will study in basic sciences such as Physicists, chemists, mathematicians, in the first thousand of Turkey, in the first 2,000 of them, are not made up of the first 5,000 students. But once again, I want to remind my friends here that we also need mechanisms to allow students who are much more successful in basic sciences to prefer basic sciences. Yes, in September 2011, the environmental impact assessment report on this company was given positively in the question motion of Alderman Haydar Akar (6/201) by the company's steel production plant, which you laid the foundation of. At the same time, in his second question, he made an assessment of organised industrial areas within the city. It's a long process of choosing places for organised industrial areas. Civil society organisations, relevant ministries, a number of other competent mechanisms work together, and the result of these studies is the choice of venues. Of course, some choice of venues may have been wrongly done in the past years. There is no industry in these places, which is extremely difficult to move after some construction. The important thing is to be able to ensure that the industry works in a way that doesn't threaten the settlement, meets environmental conditions, that doesn't contaminate the air, the soil, the water. Once we can provide that, of course, the settlement and industry can also be side by side. However, in the third question, our friend again sees that there is an excessive industrial condensation in some parts of Turkey, so there are migrations from many provinces of Anatolia to these areas... there will surely be no direct transfer of industrial facilities from here to the cities that are migrating, but the incentive systems that we're going to explain in the new era, the incentive system will have the incentive systems that will lead to the industry towards those areas, or let's say that investments now -- even to the capacity of an iron-structure investment in Bigeli. It is no longer possible to receive these reports specifically in this area and to create facilities that are polluting the environment. So in new investments, I would like to remind our friend that a number of facilities, such as the cement plant, such as the iron-steel plant, tend to move towards more suitable geography, are already in this direction, with the development plans, with the industrial plans. Do you plan to establish an organised industrial district in the district of Silivri, İstanbul, in question 6/260? It would have to be in line with the plans for the development of the 000-year-old development, and, of course, those requests can be considered within the scope of applications, if an organised industrial zone or industrial area is available in this area under the framework of the development plan. However, there is also an industrial construction in this region -- in these areas of Istanbul, such as Silivri and Çaktrakca. This industrial construction is not only going here, but when we went a little further, we made an arrangement that allowed our Tekirdağ and Cırklarean provinces to be built in an industrial area, including the Ergene Basin, to be established in the industrial areas, and therefore to be able to establish a reformed industrial area in the Organised Industrial Areas Act -- and for the duration of its development -- an organised industrial zone. If the industrialists in Silivri, or those in Çaktrak, or the industrialists in Tekirdağ, or in Cırklareli, apply during the period of their application -- we know that some work is there -- they will be able to be taken into the organised industrial zone. The question number 6/286 is the same as Mr. Aslanoglu. I'd like to say the same thing about this question. In the question of Mr. Alim Light (6/318), it has been said that our tradesman and artist use SME support as small-scale businesses by our Ministry. Dear friends, as of the end of 2011, we have 1,975 thousand tradesmen and artists registered in the trade-investigators database, and we can say 1,975,991,976 thousand. There are 645.408 businesses registered in the COSGEB database. You know, COSGEB has recently taken a large portion of the service sector, and therefore the tradesman and artist, into its own area of interest, and has started to support them, and many of our tradesmen and artists have become members of the COSGEB database. An important part of the businesses recorded in the database consists of tradesmen and artists, 53 per cent of which are tradesmen and artists. The supports from our tradesmen and artists amount to 42 per cent, so 42 per cent of the support given through COSGEB from the SME supports reach our tradesman and artist's office. So the process of taking advantage of SME support from the tradesman and artist after entering the framework of the support of the KOSGEB is progressing rapidly. Mr. Aslanoglu's (6/383) question mentions the means of providing investment goods through financial rentals. Yes, the leasing app was completely removed for a period of time. We also know that the removal of this was due to the abuse of leasin. So he can rent investment goods, a machine and equipment, a vehicle, a car, by means of a leasing, he can use it. This brings its value tax exemption, and instead of 18%, it can make this investment by taking advantage of the value tax exemption of 1 percent. But over the course of time, there have been people who have had their office painted and dyed with a leasing method. But it's one thing to take investment goods by means of leasing, taking the paint, painting of your office, is another thing entirely. In recent studies, the issue was re-opened at the High Planning Board of Ministers, dated May 2, 2011, and with a cabinet decision, some products were considered a list of investment goods, allowing re-launching for these investment goods. So, what Mr. Aslanoglu has expressed is that with the decision of this Council of Ministers, the re-lasing process for these investment goods has been rebooted, especially with an application that would encourage the purchase of products produced in Turkey, but a positive list has been published and this application has been initiated. I'd like to express that to our friends. Dear friends, Mr. Semih Yalçin (6/543) mentioned young people who were benefiting from the support of techno-entertainment capital. Yeah, it's the first time we've started an app in 2009. In Turkey, we need to encourage entrepreneurial, and we need to take advantage of entrepreneurial spirit more than entrepreneurial, as Turkey. One of them is to encourage techno-importing, which means I have an idea of developing technology, I have an idea of producing technological products, and I want to commercialize it. To have our young people, like so many places in the world, is to allow them to commercialize their ideas. We started a project like this in 2009, and we said, if you're a teenager, a grad student, a graduate or a PhD student or a teenager or a young academy, in five years or five years, an academic who graduated or became an academic, an assistant professor, a professor, I developed a technology, and I want to commercialize it. If he says that, he goes through a panel, he goes through a panel, an academic, a businessman, a teknocrat trio, a panel that can be eliminated and commercialized. In 2009, when we first started, 152 projects arrived, 78 of them were found worthy of support. In 2010, we told a little bit more about it in colleges, and we had the opportunity to support our young people and 102 projects in 2010. We had legal boundaries, limited to 10 million. We also told our friends in the Plan and Budget Commission that we wanted to increase the number from 100 to 300, that we wanted to encourage and support 30 million people, and in 2011, there were as many as 750 projects when we set out to support 300 people. We supported 282 projects from these 750 projects. Our Plan and Budget Commission raised our resources to 50 million with the support of all opposition parties, all political parties, and we set out in 2011 to support 500 projects. Now, for these 500 projects, the auditions continue, and for the 500 projects, close to 1,700. Some of the owners of these projects are from our citizens who study academically at foreign universities, have a Ph.D., have a master's degree, and 500 projects from 1,700 projects thus reached the point of selection. Dear friends, as of today, our 452 techno-enterers are operating, and with 500 of our friends, their number will reach 952 points. Payments for these friends are made to them as they come. Did they succeed or did they screw up the support we gave them? Yes, almost all of them have succeeded. Three or four of our friends shut down their company a year later, and more than 440 of the remaining 450 of our friends prepared their prototypes, and some of them became commercialized. Some of them were exporters. When the day comes, we'll be able to share their detailed information with our friends. Dear friends, do you intend to establish an organised industrial zone in the 6/574) of our friend Mesut Dedeoglu? You know, for the establishment of organised industrial zones, you have to reach 75 per cent of the city within its borders. If Kahramanmarash has reached 75 per cent of the capacity, organised industrial areas can be established, a new organised industrial area can be established, and if it hasn't, we have to wait to get there. But if an organised industrial area itself is full, if the businesses there feel the need for growth, then we've made an arrangement for that organised industrial area that allows for the expansion of the organised industrial zone to reach 90 percent. So it can also expand an organised industrial area that has a 90 percent capacity, and we have an arrangement that allows that. If the current centre, Heromarash Organised Industry District, has reached a 90 per cent capacity rate, the application can be evaluated by our Ministry when applying for enlargement. In the question of Ali Halaman Friend (6/601), projects conducted in Adana Province and districts are being asked. You know, we have two organized industrial areas in Adana, the Haci Sabanci First and Second Etap, the Adana Kozan Organised Industrial Territories. In addition, the work of Ceyhan industrial region, the work of publicisation, the planning work continues. We have small industrial sites completed in Adana. Seven of our small industrial sites have been completed in Adana, and the work of the ongoing Adana East Second Stage Minor Industry Site is under way, and this is coming to its completion point. This is one of the provinces of Adana that we care about in terms of the investments of our Ministry. The question of Mr. Zühal Topcu (6/613) is asked about the number of disabled employees of our ministry and its relevant institutions. The situation of our Ministry and some of its relevant institutions is that there are 3,177 staff members in our ministry, and the staff who should be disabled is 95, but the number of disabled personnel working in 2010 is 28, 2011, 24. Therefore, the need for disabled personnel will continue to be employed by these disabled personnel, who have been reported to the State Staff Chairman for 2012. While 242 people at the Patent Institute were working in 2010, the disabled staff that needed to be employed were seven, and the disabled staff was five. In 2011, 346 employees were employed at the Patent Institute, where 10 disabled staff were supposed to work, while there were still 5 disabled staff. Regarding disabled personnel, there has also been a correspondence with the State Chief of Staff, and according to these correspondence, the need for disabled personnel at our ministry's respective and relevant institutions has been expressed. When the work is done, these personnel will be able to take part in the staff of our ministry and its relevant institutions. The question of Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/619) is referred to as "How much is the total cost of the 187 workplaces owned by the Kahramanmarash Woodwork Small Industrial Site?" Dear friends, this is 13 million 333,000 Turkish liras for 2012, and the project has not been launched because it is still in the project phase. We've put up 500,000 Turkish liras for 2012, but the planned completion process is already 2015. During the end of this 13 million and 333,000-dollar project, the funds will be earmarked here. In the question of Mr. Dedeoğlu (6/620) again, the amount of project for the Elbistan Organised Industrial District is asked. This also has the amount of $6,575 000 projects, and the work of the first 50 hectares of field infrastructure projects is under way. The end process is also planned for 2015. In the question of Mr. Dedeoğlu (6/621), the project is being asked about sixty-seven businesses belonging to the Chamber of Businesses and Artists of Kahramanmarash Terzis and Confectionists. 30 million,290,000 Turkish liras have been earmarked for this project. In 2012, $3,800,000 of Turkish liras were earmarked and the project was calculated to be completed by the end of 2013. In the question of Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/772), will the areas of the organic industry be widely expanded? Yes, organised industrial areas are also needed, and according to the application of the provinces, the criteria that I have just expressed are also popularized. In Ardahan, we also negotiated the infrastructure of an organised industrial area, and I remember we laid the foundation last year. Again, Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu, Kahramanmarash MP, asks about the use of KOSGEB loans by tradesmen and artists (6/870). As I've just said, the use of KOSGEB loans to our tradesmen and artists has reached 40 percent. In any case, our tradesmen and artists have been associated with KOSGEB for several years. In addition, tradesmen and artists have also implemented the Trade and Artistic Change, Transformation and Support Strategy Plan, which will improve the situation of our artists, and the implementation of this plan continues. In his question again (6/1072), Mr. Ensar Öğüt asked again about the expansion of organised industrial areas. I'd like to answer that question the same way. According to the state of the provinces, organised industrial areas are being expanded. We have questions for our Prime Minister. Mr. Ihsan Özkes (6/570) mentions a power outage in the Battalgazi Dynasty in Eskişehir Seyitgazi district. There have been some difficulties with restoration studies here, but restoration studies have been completed, and they've come to a certain point of acceptance, and they're being processed. While these procedures are being conducted, the necessary measures have been taken to prevent them from becoming victims for our citizens who want to visit and worship at certain times of the day. In question again, Mr. Ozkes (6/559), he asks about the tuition from his trips to the Ministry of Religious Affairs. Dear friends, all of these fees are made specifically for trips abroad under the Harcirah Act, but in no one of these domestic trips, neither the President of Dianet Affairs nor the vice presidents are taking any kind of tuition, they continue to be sensitive, willingly, not to receive any tuition from trips in the country. He's asking about the expenses for the 2010 Happy Birth Week events (6/527), Mr. Ozkes. Dear friends, in this framework, 550,341 Turkish liras are being spent by the President of the Religious Affairs, but a significant portion of the expenditures are being carried out by the Diyanet Foundation branches. According to our chair of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, 550,341 Turkish liras were spent due to Kutlu Birth Week in 2010. He's asking about the number of mosques in Turkey and the increase in years, Mr. Ozkes. Dear friends, the President of Religious Affairs has been holding mosque statistics since 1984. In 1984, Turkey had 54,667 mosques, and we now know that 81,984 mosques existed in Turkey at the end of 2010. With Turkey's population, I'd like to say that we've seen from these figures that we're a country where about a thousand people have fallen into a mosque. Mr. Alim Iş asks a question about the security and equipment of the Prime Minister (6/467). Dear friends, work on the security of the Prime Minister is being carried out within our Ministry of Interior. The question about the covered grant, the same way, continues. Covered grants, closed intelligence and closed defence services, the state's national security and high interests, are paid by the prime minister's budget to be used for the needs of the state's reputation, political and social cultural purposes and for the needs of extraordinary services. This grant has not exceeded a thousandth of the sum of the general budget's initial grants -- within the scope of this figure -- and has been detailed since 2007 in the prime minister's report on the nature of these expenditures. These details will allow our friends from the activity report to see them. Again, Mr. Ozkes, our Istanbul MP has repeated his question about the road and funds of the Ministry of Religious Affairs. I'd like to put it the same way: foreign fees are made according to Law 6245, and the tuitions in the country are not taken by the President of the Dianet Affairs and vice presidents. Let me rephrase that. Mr. Ozkes asks for help collected in mosques (6/433). Dear friends, on Friday (28/10/2011) at the charity campaign in mosques, 34 million 479, 43 Turkish liras were collected, $66,818 US dollars collected, 94,338 euros gathered. That's the amount that's been announced. Again, in question 6/410, Mr. Ozkes asked for the tuition ranking for the Ministry of Religious Affairs, a comparison for the countries. Regarding the pilgrims, is religion profitable? The Ministry of Religious Affairs of the Hajj organization does not aim for any profit. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Minister, your time is up. Pick it up, please. INTERVIEWING, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOJI SEEN NIHAT ERGUN (Secondly), only a need for exchange increases is set aside. If that need is not needed, that requirement is also included in the budget of the next year's budget for pilgrimage spending, and as a profit organisation, our presidency does not see the pilgrimage organizations. That's as far as I'm concerned. Just a few more questions, and I say we'll answer them on another occasion, and I salute you all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, we have an application to ask the question holders for a very short statement. Does anyone want an explanation, question holder? Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0051par0885	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to thank the Minister for his answers. But especially the coffee shop, the tea stove, and the internet cafe managers, who are registered in the Coffee Shop Room, are in serious trouble because they are unable to use their KOSGEB loans. Especially since the ban on smoking has been put into practice, this group of tradesmen need this loan support. I think there's a need for an arrangement. If you can make that happen soon, at least some of our tradespeople will be able to benefit from it. Unfortunately, we didn't get an answer to our question about the Prime Minister's bodyguards. Of course, it's natural to be run by the Ministry of Interior, but it's now in the press with several security and protection officers in different provinces to protect the Prime Minister. If you make a statement about this, at least the question marks in their heads will be answered. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0052par0889	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0053par0891	I thank you, Minister, for these answers, but I did not find them enough. In 2001, most of the organised industrial areas were completed in Adana. In 2001, another major organised industrial area was established in Kozan. Ten years later, there was no serious investment in technology or industry. There's a personal packaging facility built by a friend of ours. Can't I, Minister, have ten years' worth of incentives and attractive loans from the investor who care about people to fill these organized industrial areas? Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0054par0894	Thank you. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0055par0896	Mr. President, thank you. Madam Secretary, thank you for answering my questions. Only Ardahan Small Industries has spent $2 million on infrastructure, and this infrastructure is really broken. People can't open their shops now that the soil's soaring. Please send an inspector to this Ardahan Small Industries, and you will find that the 2 million YTLs that were built there are in vain. I beg your discretion on that matter. You also said that when you went to Ardahan, you would support SME support in terms of loans. So far, no support has been given. Even though the managers in Ardahan have applied to the bank, there is no more support or plasma. I'd like your sensitivity in this matter, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0056par0899	Thank you. Mr. Koren, you don't have any questions, but I'll give you a minute... Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0057par0904	Minister, in response to our written questions proposals in organised industries, you answer our questions, for example according to the Manisa-Turgut Organised Industry Management Board. Is it possible, however, to accept the correct answers given by our proposals for irregularities around here? We know your ministry has control over organized industries. If our next written question proposal answers the questions of your ministry regarding the organization we're asking, I guess we'll get the answer to the question we're asking.
tbmm-2012-02-28sit01spe0056par0905	Thank you, Mr. Kören. Members of parliament, under the decision taken, we do not discuss other audit issues and move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. The commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin with the Law Proposal for Adding Interim Articles to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Laws and İstanbul MP Suleiman Çelebi and Republican People's Party Group President Yalova MP Muharrem İnce and 81 MPs; the Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 31,05, 2006; and the Health and Social Health Insurance Commission, and the Committee's Committee and the Committee for Social Affairs and Social Affairs and Development. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Congressmans, in accordance with the decision taken, it is 13 p.m. on Wednesday (February 29th 2012) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
