tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 89th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] We've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The first non-responsive statement is from Karabuk MP Osman Caffeci, who wants to speak on April 3rd as the anniversary of Karabuk's liberation. Here you go, Mr. Coffeeman.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise on April 3rd because of Karabuk's Foundation Day. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, today is the day the foundation of the Blackbuke Iron Steel Factory, the first and largest of our domestic heavy industry, which is an important part of the crowning of our national independence with economic independence. Today, at the same time, is the birth and foundation of the republic's city Karabuk. Many of our cities, occupied in Anatolia and Thrace, celebrate the day of their victory as the day of their salvation, while Karabuk celebrates the day of April 3rd, differently, as the day of the Consolidation. Our republic's greatest goal in its early creation was to promote economic development of our political independence through the struggle for salvation. And for that to happen, heavy industry would have to be built in our country. In the 1930s, our country tried to implement industrialisation with the state economy model. One of the most important acts of national industrialization of this period is the establishment of the Blackbuke Iron Steel Factory. In those years, Karabük was a village of 100 inhabitants, in Saffranbolu. On April 3, 1937, the construction of the Iron Steel Factory began the process of becoming a city of Karabuk.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0003par0020	Who did, who did?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0002par0021	At that time, the establishment of the Blackbuke Iron Steel Factory was tendered to England. This tender allowed the young Republic of Turkey to carry its image to the international arena and to announce Turkey's new image to the world. For example, in an article in Financial Times, the Turks were advised not to be conditioned on anything that would hurt Turkish will and pride in their encounter with the foreign state. At this time, the Blackbuke Iron Steel Factories have been a symbol of the Turkish nation's spirit of independence and its steeled and stable position in international treaties. With the establishment of iron steel factories, the Blackbuke was the most important heavy industrial hub in our country, while a rapid urbanization showed an example of industrialization, urbanization, and reflected Turkey's culture and ability to build a new city.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0003par0023	You still haven't told me who built the Blackbuke Iron Steel Factorys.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0002par0024	Karabük has created a common culture of Blackbuk, with its heavy industrial worker, his officer, his tradesman, and its people from all over Turkey, and many earlys together. In this union, a new city culture has formed and developed, as has been established in Karabuk, education, culture, transportation, infrastructure. In this way, Karabuk became the centre and school of our country, with a growing private sector of iron steel management. In the process, the Blackbuke also served as the central and stock market for iron steel production. Blackbuke Iron Steel Factorys also pioneered the construction of heavy industry in many of our country's cities by producing new technologies and factories that built factories. Today, in many parts of our country, there are buildings, high-speed trains, large infrastructures, and many factories, the hard work and sweat of a heavy industrial worker who works in iron steel. Karabük was our 78th province on April 3, 1937, with a population of more than 100,000 people from a 100-strong neighborhood with the acceleration of the factories that were laid down in the area. The Blackbuke has experienced a rapid migration process with the establishment of heavy industry, creating a Turkey mosaic with citizens from all over our country. This mosaic is so fused that the Blackbuke, as it was yesterday, continues to grow and flourish in peace and peace. Although the first thought of iron steel is called the Blackbuke, today, the Blackbuke has become one of the most important cities in our country, with its historical values and natural beauty. Today, Karabük is moving rapidly towards becoming a brand city with its modern infrastructure and university, living at all speeds, the development of our country in every area. As an important token of our economic independence, he speaks gratefully and gratefully to all the elders of the state, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our state, who led to the establishment of iron steel factories in Karabuk. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and to celebrate the April 3rd Foundation Day of all my Blackbuke countrymen, who will carry Blackbuke to this day and carry him into the future, I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0004par0033	Thank you, Mr. Coffee Man.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0005par0034	Mr. Osman, look, we're applauding for thanking you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0004par0035	The second non-responsive statement belongs to Erzincan MP Muharrem Illum, who asked for a comment on recent developments in Erzincan. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0006par0039	Mr. President, I have made a promise to inform the Supreme Assembly of a recent incident in Erzincan. I salute you all. Dear MPs, on Wednesday (March 28th), you are all heretics by persons or persons, on the wall of a school in the village of Avcılar, the park by the school garden wall, the wall of two houses and some other houses in the vicinity. Ye infidels, ye shall all burn. The written words are written. Besides, there are three crescents on the wall of a house. Let me first point out that we believe that these three crescents were made by professional and provocateurs, purposefully, in order to bring people against each other, in order to completely deflect them. Events like this have been done before by provocateurs in Adıyaman and Izmir. However, in this regard, the authorities refrained from saying, "This is a child's work. When we look at the incident at Erzincan, it's clearly not child's work and it's done by provocateurs. We want the authorities to take this matter seriously and take it very carefully. The earlier Sivas, the Stocks, the Kahramans were never taken seriously, but what happened was written on the black pages of history. In addition, while we curse these massacres, we curse the massacre of Erzincan, which took place in the village of the chieftains of our Erzincan. My fear is that these events in the past slowly take place by setting up the ground. Authorities must quickly focus seriously on this issue and find and expose their perpetrators by paying attention to their speech and actions. If we take the risk of growing a vindictive youth, if we don't consider a large percentage of society, our future will go dark. The vindictive youth, especially during the ten-year period of power, is the final point in Turkey's very systematic, very methodical transformation that the government is trying to achieve. Before you take action in your head, you prepare society by playing with its spiritual emotions. Every new configuration you make, you adjust it to the next step you're going to do. And the final point is the new law in the field of national education. You're looking for a new form of education, a new citizen, a new voter, with a law that I believe is against a great majority of you. First in school, you forbid national holidays to be celebrated. Is it true that the Prime Minister calls it "tender youth" that we should pursue it? Would the AKP be in power today if the republic's institutions, which you don't like, had created an atheist society with its 90-year education and teaching system? Would the AKP still be in power if republican schools had raised one type of people with a 90-year education system? In place of Ataturk's Youth, Necip Fazil Shortspherk, growing up a vindictive youth will take away the darkness of our future. Youths of the Republic of Turkey must be a youth who has absorbed their customs and customs. A young man of true Islam, who believes in science, who believes in science, and who believes in wisdom, and who believes in wisdom, and who believes in wisdom, and who believes in wisdom, and who believes in wisdom, and who believes in wisdom, and who believes in wisdom, and who is free. Young people who have no quarrel with the past must be equipped for the future. It's not the youth who denies the past, but the youth who learns from past mistakes, but who judge, who is not vindictive. The subject must be the youth who succeeds in being a non-committal, free-thinking individual. Youth that respects other beliefs and ideas as much as it respects its own faith. There must be youth that reads, who questions, who has self-confidence, who criticizes, who understands the age and the environment, who is not a hypocrite, who cries out in every environment what he knows is right. Did you ever figure out what kind of mood those kids would be in with this law that would increase the pressure of the neighborhood in schools? I'm also curious as to why you do it in a holiday mood when this law comes out. Was there a revolution? I wonder what it's for, who it's for. Let's not divide this society. Why are we polarizing it? Why are we dealing with people's sects? What is wrong with the Qur'an hanging on the wall and hiding in a beautiful environment, taking it when it is read and being read after it is read, and hanging again in that clean place? I don't think there's any point in revealing sectarianism by saying that, and none of us would benefit from that. Let it be good that the murderers are saved from trial. If we show the society the wrong way, knowingly or not, when the appointed ones are beating the deputy, when the MPs are being beaten on the council stand, there is something wrong with that. Please, let's not divide society, let's not strain it. We can't win anything. I urge all of you to be quick to be sensitive about this, before I forget that the people who camp and divide the black pages of history are a disgrace to the black pages of history. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0007par0061	Thank you, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0008par0062	Mr. President, what Mr. Hatibin means is very important. The three crescents also enshrined our party. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a brief statement.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0006par0063	No, sir...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0008par0064	It's not about you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0009par0065	Mr. Shandır said we don't believe.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0010par0066	No, no, it's not based on that.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0008par0067	Let's consolidate what your friend says, strengthen it.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0011par0068	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0008par0071	Dear President, the esteemed MPs have brought up a matter of real importance, our friend. I thank him very much. Aside from the ethnic dissolution between our nation and the ethnic dissolution that forces conflict and conflict, there is now a cult-based dissolution, and unfortunately, our party's emblem is being used in this trial fire. Earlier in Adıyaman, about a month and a half ago in Yenimahalle and Karapınar neighborhoods of Adıyaman, there was a similar provocation in some regions of Gaziantep and İzmir. And now, in the village of Avcılars in Erzincan, grape district of Erzincan, unfortunately, there is a trial fire at the heart of the sect that aims to clash with one another, and as a subject, they are trying to draw our party into the field or identify a conflict around our party. Turkey and the Turkish nation will have enemies all the time. Dear MPs, this country is big, this nation is big. The great mountain will have great smoke. But we have to be sensitive to these developments in the public and the state. Look, this isn't just some random incident. It's not a child's thing, it's not an inefficiency, it's not a thrill. These are certainly provocative events, which are purposeful, programmed, and are really aimed at reaching a conclusion, and I believe that this is not just a reflection of a global scenario, but of Turkey's internal conditions. Look, we're going through a process just south of here where a Shia-axis conflict, a confrontation, and a conflict. We have a concern as a ground is being set up to carry the same conflict to Turkey. They may be, but it's the government's attitude that counts. Dear MPs, valued members of the ruling party, began this issue on February 26th in Adıyaman. Then we cried out in a terrible cry to the government, stop this trial, put out this fire, catch these perpetrators. Don't call it child's work. But we've never seen a step from the government, from the concerned minister. What do you expect to happen now that you make a move, that you catch these perpetrators, that you put out this fever before it goes to fire? In that sense, we call upon the government to take immediate action, to arrest the perpetrators, to bring them to trial, or else the government will be responsible for the consequences. If this government rules Turkey on behalf of the nation, it is also the government's responsibility to take immediate precautions on these developments aimed at disbanding the unity of the nation. Once again, the government must take the necessary measures and capture these perpetrators. The people of Erzincan should never be blamed for this. Thank you all. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. President, for the opportunity.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0012par0082	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. The third word outside the agenda belongs to İstanbul MP Sırrıyya Önder, who wants to talk about Istanbul's problems. Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0013par0088	Thank you. Mr. President, dear friends, the government's basic approach to problems can be summed up as if you don't think about it. That's the case with the Kurdish issue, that's the case with the earthquake, and that's the problem with a big city like Istanbul. Today, Istanbul is the fifth most visited city in the world, where the international meeting took place, with the largest dollar billionaire in the world. It is possible to increase striking statistics on Istanbul, but there is a neoliberal project at the side of these positive statistics, and it shows clearly how the city has no proactive policy and vision for the future, with small urbanities that it has created, by disrupting the organic structure of the city, by changing its economic structure with a violent capitalist logic in favor of multinational capital. Although Istanbul's transformation is presented as a miracle of non-Western economic development in the face of devastating economic crises, it can actually be considered a masterful implementation of its strategies -- global urbanization -- or globalisation, or the state, capital, local government alliance. We can look at this in two basic layers. First, global urbanization shows itself by building city particles, such as shopping malls, security sites, public housing, residences, plazas, airports, techno parks, golf courses, and disintegrating the city into separate islands. Second, and most importantly, the city for these city particles is a sign that the sub-classes, such as forced evacuation and legal oppression, are left helpless in the face of transformation, and therefore, the spatial dissolution is carried out along with the class and social dissolution. Now, there's a construction in this town, the Istanbul Development Agency. He also has a regional plan for Istanbul Development Agency. It's an institution that determines the region's medium-term vision and co-ordinates projects in this area, finances the ground -- if I'm not mistaken about 100 trillion dollars from the old one this year -- they'll distribute it under the name of support -- to make permanent programs in this city in terms of tourism, trade, transport and so on. From where does the authority look at Istanbul? The most obvious indicator of the city is actually ▪ Where is Istanbul, therefore, looking at the people? It is the most obvious indicator of the people. I will present to you the Governing Body of the Development Agency: İstanbul Governor, İstanbul Metropolitan Mayor, Mayor of the County Assembly -- President of the Chamber of Commerce, President of the Chamber of Commerce, President of the Turkish Exporters' Assembly, Chairman of the TUSKON Board, Chairman of the Executive Board, President of the Parliament. Let's see the Development Board of the Development Agency: Osman Aküz of the Association of Participants Banks, David Ökutçü of the Turkish Education Foundation, Business Foundation, Economic Initiative and Business Morality Association, a representative of the Istanbul City Cultural History Research Centre and a representative of the Turkish Travel Agency. I don't have the time... and the replacements are all equity reps. This is the most obvious indication of where you look at the development issue. Is there a worker in there? No.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0014par0096	Is there an artist?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0013par0097	Is there one, a right, civil society in it? No. They cut TMMOB out of the board because he didn't attend a meeting. There's no labor union in it, no police union, no pensions. Others, however, are not even five percent of the town's minority. They're busy eating the values of 95% of this city, but there's not one weird guru, one poor person. This is a sign of the government's view of Istanbul and the poor in general by who. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0015par0100	Thank you, Mr. Commander. Off-the-book talk is complete. Some of our friends have hacked into the system, so I'm going to promise you by the order of entry. One minute from where they're standing, please... Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0016par0106	Mr. President, thank you. Across Turkey, dairy producers, red meat producers -- so feeders -- are in a very difficult situation. Feeding, hay, grass, medicine, diesel, electricity prices increased, lowering living animal slaughter prices, counting milk prices has devastated the citizens. As soon as possible, the Council of Ministers is expected to organise the price of the Meat and Fish Foundation in favor of the manufacturer and raise the price of raw milk to at least $1. Otherwise, bankruptcy is inevitable. These days, the return of zero interest loans has begun. Citizens call us all the time with phone calls to report their victims. Also, the wheat supplements of last year still haven't been paid today. I'm warning our ministers about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0017par0109	Thank you. Mr. Özdağ...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0018par0112	In the removal of the funerals of 12 of our soldiers who have been killed in Afghanistan, the fact that some of the press have been de-accredited and some of them have been disabled indicates that the point of Turkish democracy has not been fully understood by some circles. Martyrs are the martyrs of all of us. Replicating common values is a means of strengthening common life. Instead of making the common values a tool for social integration, it is extremely wrong to make it an instrument of decomposition, a tool for segregation. The Turkish Armed Forces are a common value to the entire nation. No one has the right to create this common value as a means of dissolution. It's a fact that common pain, common sensibilities, brings us closer together. It doesn't help anyone to stop being our common sensitivities. We have no right to separate the media from us. For years, we looked at society from us, from him. We've separated the people of the same geography, created artificial divisions. That's one of the reasons for the social conflicts we have today. The martyrs of Afghanistan, not the martyrs of an institution, are the martyrs of this nation. And it is not for any people to forbid a party of them. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0017par0114	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0019par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. First, today is the anniversary of Karabuk. I honor Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his friends, who made Karabük, Karabük, and congratulate the Blackbuks, who I am responsible for. I'd like to report again here that I'm going to be a follower of their problems. Mr. President, I've asked for your word to show you that there's been a crime against the law in Ataşehir. 5747. The famous financial centre in the Ataşehir district of Ataşehir, where the lute and cadastro borders are set, has joined the district of Ümraniye with an unjust transaction in the capital city. The Ataşehir Municipality's Ministry of Interior and the governorship's applications in June 2011 have still not been answered. As soon as the problem is resolved in accordance with the law, I'm warning you from here again that the financial center must be re-entered in its rightful place, the area of Ataşehir County, Barbaros neighborhood. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0020par0120	Thank you. Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0021par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, about thirty-five days ago in Adıyaman, then in Gaziantep, then in İzmir, and finally in Erzincan, the markings in Turkey indicate that there was a problem, and there was a provocative action. However, for some reason, the government and the Home Secretary cannot provide any explanation or find the perpetrators. Almost all of us have technology that can spy and listen to the bedrooms, and for some reason, the perpetrators of what happened in the middle of the street can't be found. That's a thought. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0022par0126	Thank you. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0023par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 72nd anniversary of the adoption of the law that gives Turkish women the right to choose and be elected in municipal elections. On an anniversary like this, I honor and thank the members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who gave this law to women. Ekrem Bora has died. With his films, with his art, I ask God's mercy to Ekrem Bora, who has left a beautiful mark on our lives. Again, today is the 167th anniversary of the organization of the police. And today, I wish the police success in their mission, and in the relationship between security and freedom, I express a desire for democracy that is not sacrificed for the security of freedom. As a result of a mining accident in Eskişehir Mihalıçık, I ask God's mercy on our workers who have lost their lives because of the collapse in a mine, I ask for patience and condolences on their relatives, families, and the citizens of Eskişehir. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0024par0135	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0025par0138	Mr. President, thank you. Malatya-Shadow, the road to Bolt-Earken has become unusable due to intense collapse and decomposition. The 2009 tender was stabilized after a short five-month use of the road, which was adopted in 2011. It's unacceptable for this road to collapse in such a short period of time without even a winter. The price is coming out of the public. It's a shame about all the money that's been spent, isn't it? Isn't it a shame about everybody's money? I'd like to request the proper procedure on this matter, thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0026par0141	Thank you. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0027par0144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As the National Party of Action, we offer all the Blackbuke people, all our citizens who live in Blackbuke, respect and love. April 3rd, the foundation of the Blackbuke Iron Steel Factory. So for Karabük, Blackbuk Iron Steel will serve our country for many years as a place where heavy industry is made of iron and steel, a very basic production entry, which is very important to our country. All of our people who work in this factory, from this factory to those who are retired, to all the Blackbenders, we offer our love, our respect; we wish them good luck.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0028par0147	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to eliminate the injustice created by minimum wage and to make amends for the measures and measures necessary to compensate for the material and spiritual destruction that it has created in society so far, I demand and demand that a parliamentary examination be conducted under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution. Our country has faced many social, political and economic problems stemming from its structural economic problems. Because the reasons for these problems and the right solution models can't be created correctly, poverty takes its place on the agenda as our country's most important and most pressing problem. One of the measures developed to address our country's general poverty and unemployment problems is the minimum wage application. About 5 and a half million people in our country are employed in many jobs with minimum wage. These workers, along with their families, have a population of about 22 million people. The minimum wage is a fee that workers and their family must ensure that the day lives in human terms according to the economic and social conditions of the day. The minimum wage, in this sense, is more than the cost of labor as a production factor, is a source of income needed to sustain human life. The minimum wage is the income level of a very common working body. Therefore, the impact of income distribution is important. According to TİK's official data, the poverty limit in Turkey is 767 Turkish liras. However, studies by labour unions also show that the poverty limit is much higher. It is even stated that the minimum wage level does not exceed the age of starvation. Compared to the level of minimum wage and the lower limit of poverty, millions of our people are employed on a salary below the poverty line. These workers, along with their families, are a poor crowd of over 20 million people. 55th of the Constitution currently in effect in Turkey. The current minimum wage does not cover "the situation of employees to obtain a fair wage for their work and to take the necessary measures to benefit from other social benefits." It also does not meet the criteria for international agreements that Turkey is a party to. The idea of working with the minimum wage developed to address our country's general poverty and unemployment problems has unfortunately been unresolved, with the level of labour exploitation that it brings, deepening the income gap, raising social injustice to the extreme. These practices, caused by unfair revenue distribution and poverty in Turkey, have turned into social traumas and brought irreparable social injuries. The minimum wage is an irreparable problem that affects the lives of all workers living in our country. Therefore, in order to eliminate the injustice created by the minimum wage, to compensate for the material and spiritual damage he has created in society so far, and to create more appropriate alternatives to the problems of hunger and poverty that exist in Turkey that do not deepen social and economic injustice. And your index is 104 and 105. According to the clauses of the Council, the investigation must be opened. [[Hakkari]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We move that Parliamentary Research be opened under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the problems of over 9 million pensioners and to determine the solutions. As of today, there are more than 9 million pensioners in Turkey who have retired, who have failed to pay for their labor, who have been legally obstructed from organizing, who are unable to live on their salary, who have to live under the border of hunger and poverty. The current government has promised to correct the price gap between pensioners and employees, but the fact that no effort has been made in this regard so far has made this gap even greater. The fact that improvements with additional payments to employees' salaries do not reflect after retirement reveals the difference between pensioners and employees, and this is growing with every increase. In 2006, there was a loss of 40+40 TL, 20+20 TL in 2007, and in 2008, the highest $385 in additional payments were paid, while there was no such application for pensioners. Today, they sentenced the pensioner to hunger and poverty by paying $570 to the lowest BUG-KUR pensioner, $700 to the SEC pensioner, and $840 to the pensioner's pension. Among those who receive pensions from social security institutions, there are many different salaries, as well as those who are pensioned from the same position at the same institution. Retirement pensions are increased by the TÜFE of the previous six months, announced twice a year by the TÜİK in January and July, so pensioners are unable to get a cut before they grow. They are hard to get by on what they earn at work, while workers avoid retiring because their pension will be reduced by half. In recent years, reforms in health and social security have not only affected employees in active working life, but have also resulted in a result against pensioners. The reforms implemented in the field of health view hospitals as business, while the patients as customers. Therefore, every time pensioners visit the health centre, they have to pay medical fees and contributions. The unit price of health care is set by the SGK, so low prices are far from meeting services, and the price above the price is unfortunately coming out of the pockets of pensioners. Therefore, pensioners who can't even afford daily expenses have to struggle with illness because they have no money to pay for their loss of health. Abstracting certain medications and health care services used in the doctor's report is a challenge for pensioners with chronic ailments, because they receive unregistered drug contributions in reported drugs. All social security premiums should have a price for paying, but according to Law 4956, pensioners and pensioners who are starting to work again at any workplace are getting a non-refundable bonus. Retired pensioners who did not apply for a grant cut because they did not know of Law 4956 that was in effect in 2003, are being sent to tens of thousands of pensioners by the SGK, which has identified their financial records, and the pensions of pensioners in this situation are being cut off from their pensions. Although pensioners have the right to form a union under the ILO, AIHS contracts and the IHEB Declaration, the right to form a union, the right to establish legal regulations in Turkey is still being denied the right to create unions and lawsuits are being filed against retired unions. However, the 90th article of the Constitution clearly states that international contracts are under law. We move that Parliamentary Research be opened under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the problems facing more than 9 million pensioners in Turkey, and to determine the solutions. 1) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to Justice Department data, there was a 1400% increase in women's murders between 2002 and 2010. In 2002, 66 women were killed, while the number rose to 953 in the first seven months of 2009. 83 in 2003, 164 in 2004, 317 in 2005, 663 in 2006, 1011 in 2007, 806 in 2008. This suggests that the woman is not perceived as an individual in society, but is considered a species that has no say and has an obligation to obey. The numbers show that violence against women has risen year after year. The brutal murder of Münevver Karabulut, a long-standing public talk, is only a few examples of Ayşe Pashalı's death in the middle of the street by his ex-wife in Ankara, the end of her life at a young age on the grounds of the Roseworld Ceremony, and the burning of Tuğba Özbek, by his ex-wife in İstanbul Bayrampaşa. In the first six months of 2011, 130 women were murdered. This is an indication that there is no improvement in the way the government, the government and society view women. In school, home, and working life, examples of physical and psychological violence against women are found. It is vital to eliminate this unacceptable painting, to prevent attacks on women and to first determine the source of violence for resolving inequality. There's not a single reason for violence, unlike what you're supposed to be. It is a high probability that children who grow up to be violent within the family are capable of believing violence and becoming violent or violent individuals when they grow up. This adds to the importance of the problem. Therefore, in preventing any abuse, especially domestic violence, Turkey falls responsibility to the Grand National Assembly. A key task falls to parliament regarding the co-operation of legal, economic, cultural, social and political causes of violence against women. However, a serious step can be taken towards the solution to this social problem. The woman is already despised and excluded in public. He is also subjected to physical and psychological violence. Moreover, women who are victims are accused, not those who practice violence. This is too important to be avoided simply by condemning those who practice violence by the word. It should have legal and social sanctions. A woman exposed to violence needs to be supported psychologically as well as provided for her basic needs. This will make her a much stronger and healthier individual. One of the prerequisite conditions for becoming a society of healthy thinkers, productive individuals who respect and respect the rights of others is the prevention of violence against women. The 17th Amendment. In the matter of the right to live, 56. In the matter, it is noted that each individual must have the right to live in a healthy environment. In addition, many other basic rights and freedoms are guaranteed by the Constitution and international agreements. However, it is evident that only legal regulations can solve this problem. Therefore, in addition to legal regulations, the government must launch training and broadcasting activities that will explain the inextricable equality of women and men in co-operation with NGOs. In particular, children should be identified as target audiences, and the education curriculum should be organised accordingly. For example, in school books, the understanding that only a parent who does chores should be given up as role models that only bring home money. Positive discrimination against a woman should not only be a law, but women should be able to benefit from the economy, education, working life, politics, in all areas. To determine the reasons for violence against women and the reasons for eliminating them, the Constitution is 98. And the 104th Grand National Assembly of Turkey. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we propose and propose that parliamentary investigation be opened. [[İzmir]] [[Ardahan]] [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Slap]] 11) Aydın Agha Ayadın [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Antalya]] 14) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 15) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 16) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 17) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Mersin]] 25) Fatma Nur Serter [[İstanbul]] 26) Osman Faruk Logoglu [[Adana]] 27) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] [[Army]] 29) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Mughle]] [[Erzincan]] [[40s.]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 36) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] Congressmans, the motions for research have been submitted to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I'm going to read and process and submit to your votes. 03.04.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Tuesday, 03.04.2012 (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. M. Akif Hamzacebi It was proposed by Artvin MP Ugur Bayraktutan and his friends that the Council of Turkey be taken to the head of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 15,02,2012, to be read and presented in the same date in the 2003,04,2012 Tuesday session, which includes the area covered by the areas of mine licenses 4252 and 4944 above the city centre, in order to investigate what is going to be available to the above-ground wealth of all citizens." About the Republican People's Party Group proposal, in favour of Ugur Bayraktutan, Artvin MP. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0029par0372	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Council's motion to investigate the new mining work in Mount Genya, including the Caucasus Cerattepe. First of all, I salute your grand delegation. As I've just stated, valuable lawmakers, we're going through a tender for mining in a place called Cerattepe in Artvin, where Artvin is the roof of Artvin. Despite two earlier cancellation decrees by the Rize Administration Court, which include both Mount Genya and Cerattepe. After 15 years of righteous legal struggle by the people of Artvin, a favourable decision was issued, and the decision was approved by the State Department. This is a very important area, valued lawmakers. It has been proven by a decision passed by the State that it would be too dangerous to mine here under a verdict. Why would it be dangerous? Because, unfortunately, due to the changes in the Mining Law, which have been made by a court ruling that the drinking water of Artvin, referred to as drinking waters, would be severely threatened and threatened by the danger of any landslide, it has been retributed to a company due to the changes in the Mining Law. My dear friends, I'd like to show you this place in the photographs to show you what kind of danger this place is. What you see down there is a section called the city center of Artvin. A previous governor of Artvin has a saying that all provinces are similar to Artvin, where Artvin is about 70 per cent as a settlement, and sometimes at 90 per cent as a town center. A process related to mining in the center of this city is intended to be carried out, which is murder. You see, this is the top of Artvin. The demand for a mining operation here means that the people living in the center of this city will be destroyed, so it is said that: 'Artvinians, either get out of here or get out of here.' So we tried to explain it to the Minister during the tender process. Look, it's also Artvin's water supply, downtown. All water sources coming into the city are feeding on the areas where they want to be mined. This is a sign that if there is a mining activity here, our water fields, our wetlands, or our drinking water fields will be destroyed. This is one example of cutting down thousands of trees if there is mining activity. In 2008, it was partially halted by the verdict. A study on the resuscitation of a murder is to be revealed. As of now, we don't know what the danger of sitting there, collapses, and landslide is today because there's over six feet of snow out there. But we do know that in this photograph taken last year, there are great sittings, and there are risks in the safety of lives and property, especially in the safety of lives. To address these dangers, MPs, the mayors of all existing political parties in Artvin, representatives of democratic mass organizations, all pressure groups, in February, we came to the Minister's office before this tender was made, we had the necessary talks with the minister. Mr. Secretary, what you've done is a very dangerous attempt. A murder is wanted in Artvin. This is our most important spot. If you lay a hand on this place, you will lay hands on Artvin's honour, you will rape Artvin. We said, "But unfortunately, we couldn't get the Minister to listen to this." As the Artvin delegation -- and you know what's most interesting about this delegation, my dear friends, was the mayor of the ruling party -- we formed a joint consortium in Artvin, and all political parties had mayors. We have visited Mr. President of CHP, Mr. President, Mr. President of the CHP, all the political parties and the relevant Minister, but unfortunately the result is zero and the tender has been made. When Mr. Secretary made the tender, he told us: "This is the measure that determines the outcome of the tender, whether or not we should make the tender: we will compare the resources of the ground with the resources of the ground; we will decide which of them is more valuable. If the choice was made at the point that came, the people of Artvin were ignored here. While the Minister was comparing them, he probably compared them to their economic values in meta. So I ask you, Mr. Secretary, how much did you value the people of Artvin, how much did you call us? I feel the need to ask the Minister from here, my dear friends. In the research conducted there, this is a package tender for the Minister. We know who will be given this tender. We said, "Who will be given it?" And we expressed that we were not wrong about who to give it to. My dear friends, look, this is a tender. There's a mess here, there's a great smell. There's a description of which firm will buy it in the relevant clause of the tender contract. In this recipe, they say, "Sir, the firm that won the tender has to produce the amount of copper mentioned above, it can't produce copper under it." What is that? Because it has to produce 10,000 tons of copper a year and produce metal copper. Mr. Secretary thought that a Rizeli firm would buy Genghis Construction, and at that point we were faced with a situation where a company called Özltin bought it. Mr. Secretary now buys it from Özltın's company and the Genghis Group doesn't buy it. He thinks we're wrong because of it. I asked Mr. Minister a written question, and I said, "Mr. Minister, as of the date of this tender, which facilities in Turkey produce copper and which facilities are run? I'm here to share with you, my dear friends, the terrible answer the Minister has given. The Minister of the Minister says that as of 16/2/2012, there is one facility that is actively producing blaster copper. This facility is owned by Bakı Bakır Asş. This facility, which produces copper, is located within the central district of Samsun. Do you know who owns the meat of Copper Ash, my dear friends? Who is it? Genghis Group is Genghis Construction. Now, according to the Minister, we're wrong if we take it from the Özltın Group and not the Genghis Group. Now, I'm showing you documents from the Genghis Group's website and the Özltun Group's website, which they're not afraid to publish on their website: my dear friends: (Energysa-Özltun-Cengiz has agreed to co-operate.) The bridge dam is bought by Adana HES Turkey's group and the Genghis Group of Turkey's tenders. After we made such a fuss, the contract was given to the Öztın Group because they were afraid the Genghis Group would receive it, but these are secret partners, which will be seen when you look at the websites. My dear friends, it doesn't matter who gets the contract for us, it doesn't matter. What's important here is, as I've just said, a mining operation that is intended to be conducted on our Artvin. Because of this mining activity, we are in danger of destroying our settlements. Therefore, we sincerely believe that because of this tender process, we will face some irreparable challenges the next day, and, God forbid, the city's capital will be in grave danger because of the landslide over the city, including the loss of life. All applications, oral applications, written applications to the Minister have failed. As I've just stated, Mr. Secretary, as a result of his tender, when he was making an assessment of his subterranean and above-ground wealth, unfortunately, he had his preference for underworld riches. That's why we're facing a very bad situation. I don't want to talk about the responsibility of contractors in those mortal accidents in Adana, but as I just said, it doesn't matter whose side the tender was taken by. Despite court rulings, it is impossible to accept the tender of a mining operation here, despite the restraining order made by the Turkish Republic's administrative courts. As Artvinians, I would like to express from here that this contract, which is against the law, which we have never accepted, is not worth as much to us as a rag. I'm calling from here to the Minister and the officials of the Mining Office who made this tender: you will never remove this mine, we will never let you mine it, we will never allow it. This contract is worth less than a rag to us. Look, I'm gonna tear this up, and I'm gonna rip this contract out for all the Artvins. (CHP cheers) You'll see, even if you made the tender after them, we'll never, ever let you dig up this mine, ever, ever, ever. Why won't we allow it? For the place where this mine shall be brought forth is Artvin's honor, his honour, his dignity; and we shall surely break the hands that reach there, and we shall surely call them the hands that intervene there, my dear friends. In the coming days, both the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will see it and all of Turkey will see Artvin. With these feelings, I say, we call this mine no. We call this rape no. I salute your high council with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0030par0388	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Now, against you, Afif Demirkıran, Siirt MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0031par0392	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group against the motion by the Republican People's Party to conduct a parliamentary investigation into the mining activities of our beautiful Artvin. I salute you all. Before I begin my words, I ask God's mercy to my four fellow miners who lost their lives in Eskişehir Mihalıçýç, and to their grieving families. My condolences to all of Turkey. Secondly, the anniversary of Karabuk is today. The Blackbuke Iron Steel Factory is a facility that has actually contributed a lot to the Turkish industry in the past, which is now, and will have a very serious contribution to the future. I wish everyone who works there well, and I wish them many years to make useful productions for our country. Dear friends, we live in a state of law. Of course, in accordance with the law, whatever must be done in Turkey will be done. There's no stopping the work of the facilities or shredding paper around here. Of course, our friends may be defeated by their feelings, and I'm not saying anything, but everything has to be walked within the framework of the law. The mining activity in Artvin, carried out by a previous company, yes, it is true, it has been stopped by the judiciary; a trial launched starting from 2008 has been finally halted in the high judiciary in 2011. The reason for the suspension, the lack of environmental work, the lack of a CED report. Now, this tender has been re-takeed by our General Directorate of Mining Affairs, and the tender has just been received by a company that has been expressed by our Precious Regent. In this tender, in other kinds of tenders, there is a condition that is not in the tenders of mining licenses; it will go to the production of metal, which means that the blaster copper will be removed, rotation will be enriched and metal production will be produced, at least 10,000 tons per year and for at least ten years. Of course, the most important thing to focus on when mining is in our country is to observe the environment seriously. I'd like to share with you here that in environmental conditions, a sustainable economy can only mean something if the environment is respected. If this company can't get the CED report, if it can't take the necessary measures for the environment, if it can't include it in its project, there's no way that it can already start operating. Dear friends, but Turkey is a law country, as I said, if it says and proves that it will produce in accordance with the conditions of environmental regulations with the project it will produce in our beautiful Artvin. From that point on, we, come, how to develop our industry in Turkey, how to increase mining activities in Turkey, and how to stay on this much longer. How do we improve our mining policy, make it more national? Turkey is a rich mining country, yes. We're in the 10th place between 132 countries as of mineral diversity, we're in the 28th position as of production value, but unfortunately we can't produce these rich subterranean resources. Look, according to one study, we have 50 billion tons of underground wealth, and the monetary value is around 2.5 to 3 trillion dollars, which are important numbers. Only when we look under it, we have 700 tons of visible gold reserves, and we have a possible reserve of over 6,500 tons, so we need to get these out, and we need to get the copper out. We've got 2 billion tons of copper, we've got blaster copper, we've got to get it out. 40 percent of the marble in the world is in Turkey. We have to get it out. 72% of the world's boron reserves are in Turkey, so we have to take it out and sell it as an extreme product, not as raw material. Basically, we have to industrialize and export all of our mines in extreme product form. We'll all see that our $3.8 billion mining exports will be a lot bigger once we've done the exports and sold them as a product.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0032par0400	Why are you privatizing the meat and not making it mine?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0031par0401	Sir, we, of course, are here to privatize...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0033par0402	Artvin, Artvin...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0031par0403	Excuse me, Congressman, we're not talking about the model of development between privatisation and the public.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0034par0404	Have you seen Artvin?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0033par0405	Tell me about Artvin, about Artvin!
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0031par0406	But if you ask my opinion, I believe that development in the private sector is in the best interest of a country.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0035par0407	Who's holding your hand? Tell me why you haven't done it in ten years.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0031par0408	But he's got to do the country's audit, the necessary state-owned audits. Look, there are 250 closed businesses in Turkey. You know, with the audits over the last two years, 150 of these have been temporarily shut down because of the shortcomings, and 50 of them have completed their shortcomings, opened up, and still 100 remain closed.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0035par0409	Open up.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0031par0410	So, if we do the necessary inspections, if we do the necessary work...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0035par0411	Do it, what have you been doing for ten years?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0031par0412	...it's important for us not to run our assets by the public or by the private sector, but in a more useful way, how to operate them more efficiently.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0036par0413	Mr. Affif, this is Artvin. Come to Artvin, Artvine!
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0031par0414	Yeah, I'll get to that, I'll get to that. So we started with Arvtin, Artvin is part of the country.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0037par0415	When was the last time you went to Artvin?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0031par0416	All Turkey is precious, all Turkey is beautiful.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0038par0417	Tell me about Artvin, about Artvin!
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0037par0418	Do you think Artvini is between Aydın and Antalya?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0039par0419	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0040par0420	You remember last semester in Turkey...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0041par0421	This is about Artvin, get to the point.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0039par0422	Mr. Aslanoglu, listen, please.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0040par0423	...on mining activities in Turkey, on mining production in Turkey, a mining commission for Turkey's mining relationship with the environment has been established and conducted. Have our friends take a look at him. There are all the conditions for what should be done in which province, but what is important here is: is there an environmental regulation in Turkey? There is. If these environmental regulations are met, do we have the right to say anything to anyone? No, you don't. Everyone is free to operate within the framework of the law. So...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0041par0424	Artvin is disappearing, Artvin!
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0040par0425	No, Artvin won't disappear.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0041par0426	It's disappearing!
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0040par0427	Look, when Artvin is mining, Artvin is in isolation, Artvin is underground, above ground mining, if the conditions for the environment are to be met, there is nothing happening to Artvin.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0042par0428	Do you know Artvin?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0043par0429	Congressman, have you seen Artvin?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0040par0430	I know all about Turkey, I'm a miner. I've been to Artvin, I know all over Turkey.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0043par0431	When was the last time you were there?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0040par0432	Thus, if Artvin does not need mining, then Artvin will not get the CED report. And then this company, this business, will not be able to continue its activity. Dear friends, look, let's concentrate on the mines in Turkey and focus on the shortcomings in Turkey in the past. Look, before the AK PARTY, we're looking at MTA...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0044par0435	There was no mine in Turkey before the AK PARTY, you found the mines!
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0040par0436	...he was drilling 15 to 20,000 meters a year alone, but today he drills over 200,000 meters a year, and as a result -- I've said a few times from this pod -- our lignite reserve has increased by at least 50 percent, our trona reserves of 1.9 billion tons have grown to 3 billion tons; we have enough trona reserves to last the world for 400 years. There's been some serious additions to oil operations.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0045par0437	Did you bring this, too?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0040par0438	But it's important to find them. Yes, we do, it's true, we still have a lot of mines. Look, there are sixty metal productions in Turkey, you know that?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0045par0440	I know all about it, I'm a member of the CIT Commission, don't worry!
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0040par0441	But the amount of this needs to increase because there are seventy-seven -- in Turkey -- minerals and mines and minerals.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0045par0442	Do you know how much TTK makes in a year? Every year, 400 million go from treasure to TTK.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0040par0443	Therefore, we are obliged to conduct our coals in Turkey and our industrial raw materials in Turkey and our copper in Turkey and our gold in Turkey and our silver in Turkey. Now, remember, I told you here before, there was a gold mine, and there was someone walking around every day, sir, and it killed the environment, and the people... what happened? Now that it's working, nobody's making a sound. Why? Because it fits the conditions, because it fits the environment. Asterixes are missing. Environmental associations are no longer being poured out on the ground, saying, "Why are gold mines being mined in Bergama?" Why? Because environmental conditions are appropriate. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0046par0447	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0047par0448	Mr. President, I want word on 60.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0046par0449	If you'll excuse me, there's an argument against you, then.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0047par0450	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0046par0451	This is Mr. Ilhan Demiröz, the speaker at Lehte. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0048par0454	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. Yes, today we celebrate the salvation of a province of mine, our Blackbuke. I'd like to begin by remembering the late Prime Minister of that day, Mr. Inönul, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the Great Leader, who had worked to build the Blackbuke Iron Steel Factory and who ordered it to be done. Since we're going to talk about the mine, I also remember that we've experienced unwanted events about the mine, I ask God's mercy to the four of our citizens who lost their lives in the fall of the mine at the Mihaluççü Bay of Eskişehir, and ask patience for their remaining families. Dear lawmakers, it's good to dig out the mines, run the mines, no one can object to that. However, some areas have many features, and you need to know about these regions, and Artvin is one of them. I'm, yes, the Fellowship Member, but I'm from Artvin, born and raised, and I know Artvin, and I always visit every year. Dear friends, Artvin has a unique quality, a microclimate. The land is very limited, one of our provinces where terraces are built and all kinds of fruits and vegetables grow. He's famous for his woods. Perhaps you can compare it with the other forests, but come to the point where the area of the mine at which it is called Cerattepe, unfortunately, is directly above Artvin, as the precious Artvin MP pointed out, will affect all of Artvin. Then, the government must decide something, either in the form of an migration from here to here -- in a pond, like in dam construction -- to move it somewhere else, or give up this mine or this mine for now. Why would I want to say that? We know very well that the problems with the mine are not only in our Artvin. Artvin is an immigration province. Why is he migrating? He can't have a say in agriculture, his land is narrow. Sir, when you speak of other problems in the same way... we only have one forest, and if you try to destroy it, if you try to contaminate our underground waters there, then our citizens must leave Artvin. Dear friends, there are problems not only in Artvin, but also in Burma, and all over Turkey. Why do you have it? There's the General Directorate of Mining Enterprises in Ankara, folks. You're applying, you're coming in, you're taking a 25,000-pound map and you're saying, "I'm going to make mines here, I'm going to search here. They're going to give you this place for twenty years, thirty years, forty-nine years. And then? Of course, since Ankara is given on a table, when you come to the area, for example, when you come to Burma, you suddenly face a great deal of trouble. Why is he coming out? You can see it's inside the farmland. And this is very easily done: a particular area is marked. In the sense of avoiding the CED report, let's say that this area works out 20 of this, or shows up at 19.9 of that, and goes out of the CED report. Guys, about this place... Let the city's general parliaments give them to them, not Ankara. One day you'll find that all the mountains surrounding Bursa have been completely dissolved in various places -- the quarry, the sand, the gravel furnaces, the search for the mine, sir -- and one more thing, ambitiously, I'd like to say: No one has the right to do that. If there is to be a permit for this place, the local executives there, the City General Assembly, and the State Special Administration must give it to them. Friends, you can say that the county's private administration only gives you business and employment licenses. Now, think about it, an officer, an engineer who works for the County Special Administration in a place like Bursa, in Ankara, let's say he doesn't have the luxury of not giving a business or a work permit against someone who's turned a certain area, because we all know what would happen to that friend as an officer. Then, I'll tell you something else: we're about to... this is about miner friends, 1/1 here. They need to come up with a plan for building up to 5,000, and we haven't even been able to show determination to do that. That's why he's not doing it, he says: I solved it in Ankara, my friends. What do we have to do with you, with the city council, with the state's private administration? We've solved it in Ankara. I'll bring it to you as well as the mine tender for Cerattepe in Artvin. If it had been decided by the local authorities, could they have made this tender decision? No. They live in Ankara, at the head of the desk, deciding about the Cerattepe of Artvin, Genya. The county's private administration, the county council, the municipality, no one knows about it. Please ask them, ask the citizens there. Those friends of ours, in the city council -- I claim -- discuss this issue, what results you'll get, even though you're in the majority, we'll all see it together. These are not the only things that are being done under the name Maden. By building sand, gravel furnaces, quarryes, agricultural areas are being completely destroyed. So these are, in a sense, the nature of our fields, where everyone has to take advantage of some people, organizations. Here, our water goes, it gets dirty. I'd also like to give you an example of the valuable MPs: For example, there is Orhaneli Başköy, and there is a mining operation on it. Last week, all of the country's citizens, all of them took a walk in Burma. Why? The drinking water was dirty. They brought water in the bottles and showed it to me. But there's no way that anyone can do anything for these miners who have a business and a work license and have an allocation from Ankara. You're making a judgment call, and yet it goes on like this, and all these areas are being destroyed, unfortunately. This shouldn't be done. So I'm going to bring this to my locality, Burma, starting with Artvin, because, really, there are problems with mines, sand, gravel stoves, quarryes, and stone furnaces, and we will discuss the law on 2/B very recently. It's got another quarry in it, and it's got marble stoves in it. In this regard, I'd like to invite you to have a little more common sense about this, especially the authorities. Why? I would like to finish with an example: For example, there is a highway to İstanbul-Bursa and Izmir in Bursa. 36,000 olive trees are being cut down in Orhaneli and Gemlik. However, there is another route, but the government, instead of talking, talking, in dialogue with the citizens on such matters, means that I did it. But I know Artvin, I know the Artvinians, I trust them, this time I didn't do it in Artvin. All our countrymen, the Artvins, will stand up to this together. I salute you all with respect and love. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0049par0473	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Tülay Kaynarca vs. İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0050par0477	Respected President, I have been sworn in against the Republican People's Party group proposal. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the group's proposal is to take the necessary precautions regarding the mining site in Artvin, and to set up a parliamentary research commission. Each of my predecessors gave their opinion on the matter. I'll draw attention to a different matter. It's about the bill we started interviewing yesterday. Yesterday, we discussed the First Amendment to the Union Act until Article 4 of the First Amendment. As with all unions, the officers are also on the lookout for this bill in this union meeting. So, with this opinion and this thought, I express my opinion against the Republican People's Party proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0051par0482	Thank you, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0052par0485	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0051par0486	You want roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Karaahmetoglu, Mr. Ayadım, Mr. Serter, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Celebi, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Special, Mr. Sapan, Mr. Bayaf, Mr. Bayaktutan, Mr. Kaleli. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On February 26, 1992, the 2/179 I gave you, I ask that the massacre of Azerbaijan, which was carried out by the Armenians in Hodjalı district of Azerbaijan, be taken directly into consideration and demand that my bill be taken into consideration in accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Charter, which was adopted as Memorial Day of 26 February. Yours truly. 27.02.2012 Congressmans, on the motion, Mr. Reşat, who has the motion, right? No. Mr. Oğan, Iğdır MP, come in. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0053par0507	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have discussed this issue on this bench before, and in 1992 we suggested that the atrocities committed by the Armenians in the city of Hodjalı, Azerbaijan, in 1992, be taken into legal examination by the Turkish Grand National Assembly and that what happened in Hodjal would be considered a genocide by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Although there has been a special session in parliament about this, I'm afraid our House has yet to issue a decision on this matter. There's just a statement that we, as the Foreign Affairs Commission, have issued as the Turkish-Azerbaijan Interparency Friendship Group. Dear MPs, if we remain silent in front of the media of the entire world today, as a member of a nation expressing the brotherhood of Turkey and Azerbaijan, as the two states of this nation, if we remain silent, insensitive, we will continue to massacre at every opportunity from the world's newspaper Le Monde to the Russian daily Izvestiya. Unfortunately, we have been declared genocide by the West today, even though the genocide has been committed against us because we did not speak to the genocides against the Turks in the past. In the past, we have never asked for the account of what was done against us, nor have we brought it up. In all our great squares, we have monuments of victory. Of course, we are a people who boast of their victory, but there are also many massacres against us. It is also possible to see examples of this in the Balkans, and it is also possible to see examples in the Caucasus, and it is possible to see examples in many cities of Anatolia. Even so, we've always been silent about the massacres, the genocides against us, not the world's agenda, not the international community's agenda, we haven't brought it to the agenda of our own Parliament. It is now time for this to be accepted by both the Turkish public and the international community by our own Parliament. This is a requirement of human rights, and it is important to give at least part of justice to the people who have been massacred, and it is important that Turkey responds to unjust accusations, which have been made against Turkey. Dear lawmakers, the process ahead is a very troubling process. By 2015, several similar charges will be brought against Turkey in the West. Of course, there's no way that a Turkey facing charges against something that doesn't exist would bring up another genocide in order to get out of it politically. We, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, have to accept what happened here as a genocide, a massacre, in order to ensure justice here. I'd also like to say that our State Department is now a non-profit practice, which is the issue of such issues being excluded from Parliament. Keep it out of Parliament as long as you want, Europeans don't keep it out of parliament. The French Senate has issued unjust decisions against Turkey; the Constitutional Court has cancelled; both parties will be re-opened as soon as elected, he said. Thus, if we are two states of a nation with Azerbaijan, we must now accept the Hajji genocide as Parliament. If we accept this as parliament, we will be in the way of the next massacres, and from now on, those who have similar intentions will not only be in Azerbaijan, but also in the Turkmen of Iraq, as well as in the Uygur Turks of East Turkistan. Because everyone will know that wherever there is a Turk in the world, we, Turkey, are behind this, and we will answer for it one day. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0054par0516	I'd like to thank Mr. Sinan Oğan, our Iğdır MP. Now, the bidder, Mr. Reşat MP, has come right. Here you go, Mr. Right. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0055par0520	Mr. President, I have made a pledge, following the fact that the massacre of Armenians in Azerbaijan on February 26, 1992 was recognized as genocide in Hoxhalı district of Azerbaijan, and that our proposal for law to be adopted as the day of reminiscence on February 26, was not discussed in the commissions. I salute your high council. Members of parliament, on February 26, 1992, there was a great massacre in history as a black day. After World War II, the United Nations adopted genocide as an international crime of humanity in 1948. Actions carried out in part or total destruction of a national, ethnic, racial, or religious group have also been considered genocide. On February 26, 1992, the Armenians committed a complete massacre against the innocent, civilian, unarmed Hodja people. On February 26th, he became one of the most painful, memorable days in the entire Turkish world, especially Azerbaijan and Turkey. Armenians, children, women, old, young, 613 Azerbaijan Turks brutally slaughtered. 83 children and 106 women were brutally tortured to death in this massacre. Freedom, human rights, democracy, rights to live are the basic longings and rights of men, but as you can see in Hodja, thousands of people are being slaughtered in one day by hostile Armenians, and thousands of people are being forced off their own land. The massacres and genocides of the Turks we encountered during and after the First World War are one of the consequences of the same aggressive behavior. Many people who did yesterday's Hodja massacre are now under the rule of Armenia, one of which is the head of the state of Sarkisyan. Mr. President, lawmakers, today more than 20 per cent of Azerbaijan's territory is occupied by hostile Armenians. More than a million people have been forced to migrate from this occupied land. The people of Azerbaijan call them fugitives. Those escaped people are forced to live under very difficult conditions in various cities and departments of Azerbaijan, and blood is lost every day. When will we return to our territory by the Turks who were forced out of the area during the occupation? When will I return to my own land, and to the land of Karabakh? Every day, the suffering is increasing, shrinking, and deepening, but in the modern world, NGOs, who are involved in everything, are not seeing this situation and interestingly ignoring it. In the world, even those who advocate human rights, let alone animal rights, almost never take care of the problems of these sad, strange, poor people. Here we think about how the West is hypocritical, hypocritical, when it comes to the Turks and the Turkish world. Unfortunately for human rights, the world has remained in class at Hodjalı, Azerbaijan, Karabakh, and so has the insensitivity day after day, but it continues day after day. Of course, just because they're insensitive doesn't mean we have to be insensitive. Aren't we going to keep human values? Will we ignore the suffering of our oppressed, despised, murdered brothers? Dear lawmakers, this is why we have offered this law by the Armenians on February 26, 1992, to recognize this massacre as genocide and to remember it all the time. Last semester, I offered the same law in the 23rd term. That law proposal was on the agenda of the House, but interestingly enough, our proposal of the law never came up. The same kind of law that we're bringing to you right now. Of course, since it is not discussed in the commissions, I bring it here under Article 37, but I would like to say that this law is for the Great National Assembly of Turkey to support, support, and then to discuss as soon as possible because the Turkish world is waiting, our Azerbaijan is waiting, the Turkish-Islamic world is waiting, the oppressed people are waiting, the oppressed people are waiting, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0056par0528	Thank you, Mr. Right. Members of parliament, talks have been completed according to Article 37 of the Civil Code. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move on to the agenda "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under Disasters, which is ranked in the 2nd place, where we left off from the Ministry, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission and the Plan and Budget Commission reports in the 3rd ranking position of Public Servants' Union Law. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. In yesterday's merger, Article 3 was adopted in the first part of the bill, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now, if there are any other clauses in the first section, I'm going to submit them to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause. There's a motion on Article 4 that I'm reading. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Constitution of the Law shall be adopted by the People's Unions Law, which shall be held at the number of 200 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Candy Namik Havutça Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Article 4 - 4688 of Article 6 of the Law has been changed as follows. "The court gives the union or the Confederacy at least 60 days to correct the lack of information in which the statute or documents mentioned in this article can determine the violation of the law. At the end of the deadline, the union or the confederacy will be closed if the charter and documents are not changed or made legal. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0057par0559	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0056par0560	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0058par0561	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0056par0562	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0059par0563	Mr. Namik Havut.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0056par0564	Namik Havutça, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0060par0566	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 4 of the Law Bill number 200. I salute your high council. Members of parliament, the condition for working as a union founder has been lifted for two years, the operations of trade unions' organisations have been simplified, the deadline for sending documents has been extended from five work days to 15 work days, reducing the paperwork of the institution, only sending them to the Ministry of Labor and Social Security at the centre. These changes may seem to be a positive development in unionisation, but when you look at the whole bill, the situation is not pleasant. The right to unionize includes all employees, should include all employees. There may be limits only for police and soldiers, but it is necessary to acknowledge that armed forces and civilian personnel working in the police force have the right to form a union. Firefighters, prison staff, customs workers, embassy staff, postal workers, temp workers, home-axis workers and unemployed persons have the right to form unions and become members. This right is of vital importance and is regarded as one of the basic conditions of democratic, modern life. Dear MPs, as we all know, international agreements on fundamental rights and freedoms are above national law according to Article 90 of the Constitution. The law can't violate these contracts. Today, the law, on the other hand, is regarded as the most important legal document on union rights -- which is basically defined as ILO. Its aim is to protect union rights from the state and from obstructions, bans, or interference from public officials. However, according to the European Convention on Human Rights, everyone has the right to hold meetings, start associations, and join unions with others in order to protect their interests. Article 2 of the ILO Convention: Employees and employers have the right to form the institutions they want without permission, without any discrimination, and only if they abide by the regulations of these institutions. In addition, there is no distinction between the work they do, the quality of the service, the economic activities they work in, the employment structures they work in, the civil servants, workers and contracted staff, the places they are in the hierarchy. Dear lawmakers, in accordance with the bill, the public officials' unions will be able to apply only to the public officials' arbitration board in case of uncompromising. Therefore, public officials will not be able to use the strike or any other means of seeking rights in the event of conflict. Given the fact that workers who do not have the right to this right can strike under very strict conditions, it is unfair and unfair to public officials not to be granted that right. Look, remember your commitments to public employees, civil servants, before the September 12th referendum vote with the bill you brought in? You're not bringing anything different to our fellow officers. Our officers are already using the rights of the ILO Convention. You're just changing the name of the collective meeting to the collective contract. Where do you go in conflict before? The Council of Ministers was making the final statement. What's changed now? He's on his way to a panel of referees appointed by the Ministry Council. What's changing, my dear friends? Stop expanding our fellow officers' rights, on the contrary, you're narrowing it down. Rights of international law, rights of employment, rights of strike, our fellow officers are actually using it right now. But right now, in your advanced democracy, we had eight arrested MPs. Again, we had young people who spent years in prison because they wanted the right to education. Thanks to you, we've had a law that's been issued a fake union with gas bombs thrown at them in the Redbeard squares. This is the price for the rights given to our public employees by a referendum on September 12th with our understanding of advanced democracy! This law is a fake union law. KESK employees are in the square today, and all officers are opposed to this fake union law. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0061par0575	Thank you, Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0062par0576	I want a judgment quotient.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0061par0577	Mr. Havutça and his friends' motions will be submitted to your votes, but I've been asked to make a decision before, and I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the device.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0063par0580	Where's the clerk? Where do you have it from?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0061par0581	I'll give you three minutes, and I'll vote by entering the system.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0063par0583	How many did you count, ma'am?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0064par0584	Oh, my God! Does the lady say there is? We're calling it "Pes. "
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0065par0585	I give up...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0063par0586	That wouldn't happen, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0066par0587	There's nothing to say, there's nothing to say.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0063par0588	There's a lot to say, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0066par0589	There was a disagreement between the two members, sir. We're just doing what we have to do. The two members didn't get along.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0063par0590	There's a lot to say when there's 50 people here.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0066par0591	Who said there is? There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0063par0592	What do you mean, no?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0066par0593	Two clerks didn't get along, we're going into the system. There's nothing else we can do.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0063par0594	Mr. President, put your hand on your conscience, and if I tell Mr. Mahir now... he'll look back and say, "No, he's sent people." Even if you tell Mr. Mahir, sir, take a five-minute break.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0066par0595	Sir, we're not asking Mahir Bey, we're asking the clerks.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0067par0596	Mr. President, there's nothing against the Civil Code here. The Civil Code is open.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0066par0597	The Civil Code is open.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0068par0598	I'll show you in a minute that the Civil Code is open.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0069par0599	No, Mr. President, the eyes...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0068par0600	I'll show you in a minute how clear the Civil Code is.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0070par0601	There's nothing I can do, gentlemen.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0069par0602	I'm telling these staring eyes.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0071par0603	Are you threatening the Presidential Court, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0072par0604	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0071par0605	On what grounds are you threatening me?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0072par0606	How do they call it... when it's clearly gone?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0071par0607	He has that right in the Civil Code, he used it.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0072par0608	What kind of a thing is that? One tells the truth, one tells the truth. The citizens see it! I mean, isn't there a truth? Wouldn't that be a measurement? What can I tell you now if you can't even measure it?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0073par0610	The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0072par0612	Mr. President, have you read the compass senders? Why didn't you call the people who sent the compass?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0073par0613	What didn't I call?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0072par0614	Is there anyone out there who sends compasses, send compasses...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0073par0615	It's on the inside and on the outside, sir. It's happening in front of your friends here. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I submit your votes on the 4th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0074par0618	Mr. President, you didn't ask those who didn't accept the proposal.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0073par0619	We did, sir. Mr. Aslanoglu, the Isari vote has been taken. So we don't have to ask him.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0075par0621	Oh, no, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0073par0622	There are two motions on Article 5 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 5th Amendment to the Law on Public Trade Unions Law that is held at 200 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. 02.04.2012 Mehmet Candy Namik Havutça Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Ali Serindağ Article 7 of Article 5-4688 has been changed in the following way. 7-The Union and confederations can freely set their charters, unless it violates international agreements on working life with universal law principles. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the bill of the 5th Amendment be removed from the bill. Pervin Buldan Secret Tilleyya Leader Fair Wolf Erol Dora Sırı Sarık Ertugrul Kürççı Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion, sir?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0076par0638	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0073par0639	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0077par0640	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0078par0641	Motive...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0073par0642	Read the reason, please. Five of the bill. Code number 4668 under Article 7. The matter is being changed. 7th Amendment number 4688. The clause considers details of the essential issues that should be found in the unions' regulations. This is the third of the ILO contract, number 87. It clearly violates the right to legal and internal regulations that are guaranteed in accordance with the clause. The change was intended to end this conflict.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0079par0647	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0073par0648	There's a request for a roll call before the vote, sir. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Silver, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Special, Mr. Ediboglu, Mr. Celent, Mr. Celebi, Mr. Serker, Mr. Onur, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Ayaydın, Mr. Öz, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Pavey, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Genghis. Congressmans, I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit to you the motion of Mr. Buldan and his friends: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 5th Amendment to the Law on Public Trade Unions Law that is held at 200 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. 02.04.2012 Mehmet Candy (Gaziantep) and his friends Article 7 of Article 5-4688 has been changed in the following way. 7-The Union and confederations can freely set their charters, unless it violates international agreements on working life with universal law principles. Does Mr. Commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0080par0667	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0073par0668	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0081par0669	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0082par0670	Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0073par0671	Mr. Serindağ, please.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0083par0672	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 5 of the First Amendment (1/556). I salute you all. Congressmans, with our motion, we suggest that the union and confederations should freely determine the regulations of the union and confederations, unless it violates the principles of universal law and international contract laws on working life. In Article 7 of Law 4688, how the charter is regulated, what provisions must be carried out in the ordinance. When you examine the text of the article, it would be better if the type of charter text had been included in the article, rather than being edited that way in the material. When we look at matter, there are many issues. However, Article 87, adopted by the International Labour Organization, states how to draft unions' regulations. The article is exactly this: The organisations of employees and employers have the right to regulate their regulations and internal regulations, to freely select their representatives, to organise management and activities, and to set up business programmes. Public authorities must refrain from any interference that will limit or prevent this right from being used in accordance with the law. You know, this contract was adopted by Turkey, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey approved. Now, what does that remind you of, Congressman? The AKP does not want an organised society, so the government does not want an organised society, it does not want workers to be organized. I'll give you a number or two. According to OECD's unionization data, Turkey is the latest. Turkey's unionisation rate is 5.9 per cent. In 2001, however, it was 10 percent. The unionization rate in OECD has also dropped a bit, but how did it fall? It fell from 20.4 to 18.4. Greece, which we don't like, is 24 per cent, and Italy, 25 per cent. The government does not allow labour organisations to search for rights, but also meets rights workers and workers with batons and pepper spray. The strike rights are not guaranteed by this bill, and collective contracts with tens of thousands of public employees in municipalities are being tried to make it impossible. With this bill, the authority for each union to sign a collective contract on behalf of its own members is revoked. Unfortunately, there is a ruling policy in which many institutions are unable to perform their duties, and I regret to inform you that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is also taking part. The most obvious example of this is the bill we're discussing, and this bill comes to the House in the form of a fundamental law, valued lawmakers. Now, let's put our hand on our conscience, and let's look at the judgment in the Civil Charter, and look at the fundamental law of the Civil Law, is it possible to consider this bill as the basic law? It's not. But -- I'm saying this for several times, and I'm going to keep saying -- Turkey's Grand National Assembly has been stripped of its legislative authority, it's being restricted, it's being stripped of its authority to make law and control. If Turkey's Grand National Assembly cannot uphold its own law, we cannot uphold anyone's law if Turkey's President of the Grand National Assembly cannot uphold the law of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Members of parliament, therefore I call upon power here: Let not all laws be brought to Parliament in the form of the fundamental law, so that lawmakers may exercise their powers of law, and our nation may follow us. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now it's being greeted with pepper gas and baton. I said, Ankara Governorate has banned meetings around Kızılay and Turkey's Grand National Assembly. We don't say anything to him, we don't like that decision, but he can forbid it. But it was wrong of other provinces' property managers to restrict travel freedom by citing this decision. It won't save them from responsibility.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0084par0686	Mr. Serindağ, thank you, sir, your time is up.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0083par0687	I want to give this warning to all my colleagues from here in good faith. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0084par0690	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0085par0691	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0084par0692	Thank you, sir. Before you submit the motion to your votes, there's enough of a decision. I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. I submit to you the motion of Mr. Serindağ and his friends: those who accept... those who refuse... There's a disagreement between the clerks, sir. We'll do it with the device. We'll give you two minutes, we'll start the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, the motion has not been accepted. There's enough to make a decision. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. There's a motion on item 6 that I'm reading: It's the 6th draft of the current bill of 200 rows. We would like to add the following statement to the end of the clause. The authority and responsibilities may be given to these bodies on the condition that they remain in their mandate. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haluk Ahmet Silver Kadir Gökmen Öğün Salih Firat Muharrem İl Izlahattin Karaahmetoğlu Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0086par0712	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0084par0713	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0087par0714	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0088par0715	Haluk Ahmet Silver...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0084par0716	Balıkesir MP Haluk Ahmet Silver on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Silver.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0089par0719	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, valuable members, I'm going to talk to you about item six. With this bill, Turkey's working life finally saw a bill for collective agreements on civil servants. This bill is a very delayed bill. Although the referendum on September 12, 2010 was granted the right to a collective contract of employment in the Constitution, it was either delayed or delayed. I was also given a motion to ask about this, but the answer from your ministry said - 23/01/2012 - was presented to the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey, and the Plan and Budget Commission and the Health, Work and Social Affairs Commission began to discuss the issue. It's a positive development, after all, when this bill becomes a government bill. Because the government's efforts to operate the state under the rule of law were overwhelmed and tensed by Turkish political climate because the draft laws, which are fundamentally concerned about the economy and intended to radically change the Turkish education system, were brought as a personal bill by members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and their content. Yeah, it's been 18 months since the referendum, and we're just seeing the bill. The developments have shown that the government does not care about these matters or that it is truly unprepared. If there are objections, we show the MIT Law, showing that many laws, such as the MIT Law, were immediately passed when requested. It is not only a matter of delaying the law, but also a lack of the meeting of the Labour Council. Mr. Secretary, why isn't the execution and collection of the Labor Council under your authority? Again, if you will not discuss these matters in the Economic and Social Council, why did you establish this council, and why did you take part in the Constitution? In the future, this government will be remembered for its conflicting working methods and practices to the Constitution. According to public opinion, the Ministry is particularly weighting Officer-Sen (Officer-Sen) in the exchange of opinions on these issues. Again, the public believes that the legal ground is based on officer-sen's views. Isn't that discrimination? Isn't that a way of acting, when the law is passed, a direction for the Turkish and the world to apply to the public? Another question: Since there was not sufficient preparation for this bill, why was it not fulfilled last year, by the current arrangement, that there was no public discussion? On the other hand, since the right to a collective contract of employment does not bring the right to strike with it, do you have a right to strike or a road map in the face of the fact that there will be no operations or sanctions? Will the right of strike never be raised by you? If that's not the case, do you think the officers have the means to negotiate or pressure outside of the strike? If so, we'd like to hear it. When the bill is adopted, it will not be in accordance with the agreements of the ILO. In this case, in June, the ILO General Assembly has a personal curiosity as to how to defend this law. My other curiosity is, when this bill is passed, will the price be determined as a result of a real collective contract process, or will there be a fee policy set by the intervention of various ministries outside the relevant ministry? Thanks to you, with your applications, we're used to another minister explaining a ministry's work and decisions. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0090par0731	Thank you, Mr. Silver. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Silver and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 6th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 7th article: To the presidency of TBM, 7 of the 200 Orders Numbered Bill. We would like to change the terms of the article to five hundred. Scholar Light Mustafa Kalaycı Sadir Durmaz T. B. M. M. To his presidency. The 7th draft of the current 200 rows of legislation. We would like to add the following statement to the end of the clause. The Union branch board submits the decision to the General Assembly's approval. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haluk Ahmet Silver Kadir Gökmen Öğün İlhan Demiröz Selahattin Karaahmetoğlu Veli Ağbaba Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0091par0751	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0090par0752	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0092par0753	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0090par0754	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0093par0755	Mr. Haluk Ahmet Silver.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0090par0756	Haluk Ahmet Silver, Balıkesir MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0094par0759	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, valued members, one of the biggest handicaps of this law is the exclusion of a large group of employees working in public or in public. Look, let's hear some of this out: public officials working at the National Security Council General Office; judges, prosecutors and those considered in this profession; members of the armed forces; civil officers working at the Ministry of National Defence and Turkish Armed Forces; members of the National Intelligence Service; members of the law enforcement class and law enforcement service -- including other service classes -- and private security personnel working at public institutions and institutions; civil servants working at criminal institutions. Yeah, it's just a part of those who don't belong to unions and can't form a union. It is not justified that the scope of public officials, who cannot become a union member, should be so broad. Even if our citizens are members of the union, they won't have the right to strike anyway. This law will have no right to strike anyway. In fact, under this proposed law, those who will become members of the trade union will not be able to negotiate their rights, rights and interests. This bill will in no way give you the right to discuss democratic, political, economic rights and interests. Only limited financial and social rights can be included in collective agreements with this bill. With the bill, the rights have been granted so narrowly that it is not understandable that public employees mentioned above should be excluded from the scope. Counting sections must quickly be included in the area of this bill. I'm warning you from here: problems that are not solved in our police and security departments, problems with their rights, their wages and other rights, are enormous. The unrest is increasing among our police and other public officials working in the security area, and delaying the solution rapidly changes the view of the government. When various arrangements were made, it often caused a lot of resentment in the community for the police to be forgotten and excluded. See, the bag was created by the law and the class of career officials. The National Ministry of Defence and police have reported that they have no expert officers in their bodies, and the additional payments and improvements from other institutions have not been used by National Defence and Security personnel. Again, the Turkish Armed Forces and the police have not made the expected arrangements for shifts, shifts and fees. Under difficult circumstances, personnel expect their condition to be improved. This issue contradicts the ILO provisions. TSK, our personnel within the police force, at least they should have been taken within the scope of the law, the unions and confederations should have been able to negotiate the terms of business and self-interest, since the workers' strike and pressure are not addressed in any way in the law. One of the most incomprehensible aspects of the bill is that union or confederation executives are not allowed to do politics. In the event of Mahalli and general election nominations, they will have to resign from their duties. Here's another example of advanced democracy: Union and confederation managers and representatives can be replaced without justification for their duties and positions, which means that these officers are asked to reduce their resistance to the will of government to zero. You think about it, how are the public talks going to be held? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0095par0772	Thank you, Mr. Silver.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0096par0775	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0095par0776	Mr. Silver and his friends' proposals will be submitted to your votes, but before that, Mr. Hamzaçebi, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Gümütü, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Topal, Mr. Ediboğlu, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Altay, Mr. Akgöl, Mr. Kesimoğlu, Mr. Onur, Mr. Trust, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Soydandan, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Serdar. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Silver and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. There's another motion on the 7th article, and I'm going to read it: To the presidency of TBM, 7 of the 200 Orders Numbered Bill. We would like to change the terms of the article to five hundred. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0097par0791	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0095par0792	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0098par0793	Mr. President, that's a number we agreed on. That's why we can't join.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0095par0794	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0099par0795	The scholar Light will speak, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0095par0796	Mr. Alim Ikm, Kütahya MP. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0100par0799	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we've made on the 7th Amendment to Public Officers Unions Act 200 we're discussing. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers say that if the Unions exceed the number of members in the 7th article of the bill, the general boards can be made through delegates. We predict that this will be replaced by 500, not a thousand. We hereby aim to open the way for a more democratic general council through delegates of every trade union with 500 members. I hope you'll see this change in place. Dear lawmakers, as the valued lawmakers have voiced under this bill that we have been trying to discuss for two days, today the citizen is in serious trouble in Turkey. First of all, thousands are not allowed to work for five months and twenty-nine days and to be deprived of social and financial rights due to less than six months. Our ruling party MPs, including Mr. Secretary, are, unfortunately, ignoring the trouble that the ruling party speakers boasted at every turn under the name 4/C, and developed in their own time. Another issue is the problems of workers employed through subcontractors that have caused a severe amount of damage today. Dear lawmakers, workers employed in almost all parts of Turkey today through subcontractors in almost all of our constituencies, are not able to receive their wages for at least a month or two, the fields are two or three months behind, and unfortunately subcontractor companies lose their tracks at work towards the end of the semester, and then they lose the employee's sweats after they get paid off from the state. We have to say this is drama. If we ignore them, we can't solve these problems. The other issue, like the April Fool's joke, has been publicly announced, but unfortunately, as of April 2nd, it's a natural gas and electricity increase that has been seen to be real by everyone. Dear lawmakers, the increase in natural gas by 19 percent today and electricity by 9 per cent is nothing more than the ruling party's stalling people by promising not to do it for five or six months. But the truth has come today and these raises have been made. But they're having trouble explaining the reason for these raises. Mr. Secretary hasn't heard from the cameras in two days. A month ago, we will not be able to make a move. The minister is having trouble explaining the reason for the 19 per cent increase a month later. If after the Prime Minister's talks in Seoul, after the restrictions on oil and gas in Iran were forced to increase, and the pressure of natural gas and oil lobbys in Turkey has increased, we would like the Minister to make it clear to the public. That's the truth. The natural gas lobby now has to use natural gas, which they can't run in winter, which they can't use for electricity production, and they're looking to convert electricity and natural gas into their own advantage. Valuable executives of the ruling party found that when natural gas supplies were cut down in winter, they reduced the solution to natural gas production in electricity. Yeah, it's a solution, but now there's no point in putting a bill on a citizen. So if the natural gas and oil lobby in Turkey is going to do everything they say, then there's no point in this country sitting in that chair. Two years ago, there was an amendment to renewable energy sources, while this Parliament had to comply with the order of the natural gas and oil lobby in the last half hour. The above bill, apparently, has been changed within half an hour of the General Assembly, and Mr. Ali Babacan has had to limit support for renewable energy sources, according to his promise. Turkey's energy policy is not right, it is not getting better. The last hikes this citizen has to receive must be taken back by the government immediately. As of today, the citizen has begun to seek solutions not to heat up with natural gas next year. As a matter of fact, the people who lost their lives yesterday will have more tomorrow. Therefore, under this law, the recent hikes must be reviewed, especially by the esteemed cabinet members of the government and the precious zats, which the Minister is also a member of. There have also been many problems with this law. No union in Turkey will accept the issue the Deputy Prime Minister announced two months ago, which he expressed in his own mouth the official union. In democratic environments, it's only natural for union leaders with the highest members to have a say in these decisions, but it's not acceptable for a union run by power to be part of this law. I await your support of our motion, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0101par0810	Thank you, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0102par0811	I want the number of decisions enough, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0101par0812	Mr. Light and his friends' motion to vote...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0102par0813	I've asked for a sufficient number of decisions, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0101par0814	All those in favor, all those in denial. Did you ask for a sufficient number of decisions, sir?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0102par0816	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0103par0817	The vote has been made, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0102par0818	No, sir, I did, before I put it to the vote.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0104par0819	If you say it a little louder, I couldn't hear it, but I'll still call the number of decisions that I have to make.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0102par0820	You haven't heard.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0105par0821	Sir, it's okay, you've taken a vote.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0104par0822	All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0106par0823	Sustained.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0107par0824	Sustained.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0104par0825	So what, sir?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0107par0826	You got him to admit it.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0104par0827	I'm sorry, I mean, those who don't agree... we fixed it again, it happens all the time.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0107par0828	Thank you, Mr. President, you did.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0104par0829	Those of you who don't agree, the number is in the square. Unacceptable.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0108par0830	Where's the square? The same fingers are raised for both of them, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0107par0831	Mr. President, vote again.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0104par0832	No. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 7th article is accepted, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0107par0834	What was accepted, sir?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0104par0835	Article 7 accepted, sir. There are three motions on Article 8: To the presidency of TBM, Eight of the 200 Rows of the Numbered Legislature. Article 1 of the article. In his joke, we would like to change the sub-day to five days. Scholar Light Mustafa Kalaycı Sadir Durmaz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 8th Amendment to the Law on Public Trade Unions. We offer and propose that the second joke of the article be changed in the following way. 02.04.2012 Mehmet Candy Namik Havutça Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Free Special The regular general council meetings are held at the appointed time, not to exceed three years. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of Article 8 be changed in the following way. Article 8-4688 of Article 10 of the Law has been changed as follows. The General Assembly Meetings are held at the appointed time, not to exceed three years. Pervin Buldan Secret Tilleyya Leader Fair Wolf Erol Dora Sırrı Sakık Ertugrul Kürççı Mr. Commission, do you agree with the final motion of Mr. Buldan and his friends?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0109par0859	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0104par0860	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0110par0861	Sir, we can't attend because it doesn't stop him from gathering in three years.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0104par0862	Mr. Sakık, come in. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0111par0865	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. A while ago, a large portion of our fellow lawmakers in Urbana were attacked on the orders of our famous Interior Minister, Idris Naim Şahin. In fact, our Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy's car has been stopped and has been taken into custody from his side - both his advisor and his assistant advisor -- the third staff. I mean, all the time, all day today, on screens, he's talking about a democratic painting and freedom that Mr. Prime Minister has drawn... still, in his own country, we can't establish a dialogue with a branch of the Ministry of Interior, how lawmakers have been attacked and how these Parliament's employees have been mugged, in Urban... and our Group Vice President Pervin Buldan is calling. So this is your democracy. Today, at work, in many areas, in Turkey and in the world, in Europe, how much the economy has grown, yet life has not confirmed you... Mr. Prime Minister, we are the 2nd country in the world to grow after China in the economy, and the 1st country in Europe. If Aleppo was there, the Throne was here. And I say, there's Aleppo, and there's Goatsureen. Last night, we had a citizen working for the High Election Board, and four people, five people lost their lives with one guest, because of hunger and poverty. So in a country whose economy is growing and its revenues are growing, it needs to use natural gas in the house, and because it uses stoves and coal, its family gets poisoned, five people lose their lives. People are still dying in tents, in Van. In Istanbul, in those nylon tents. You give examples of China in the world, even more human casualties than China... in business accidents that lost 60 lives in March alone, 600 people lost their lives in business accidents in a year. Just because that citizen and his family were from 4/C, Minister, who lost their lives last night, they're getting $900 because they're from 4/C. It's $900, house rent, electricity, school expenses, kitchen expenses -- it's not over! That's why the government's employees go at night with bags on their backs to collect newspapers and live on. In fact, what you need to set up here today should be in favor of these people, the victims. But you said a very important thing yesterday, and I thank you. You said this is the Constitution, this is the law, and I thank you very much. This is the Constitution, which is the law, because the people are insurgency... because it's the Constitution and the law, and their responses are soaring. Look, a few days ago there was an earthquake in Mush. In one village, nearly 80 homes are about to be destroyed, and they still don't have the hand of this state, the one you call "the tender hand of compassion." We're talking about the social government, and those people are still living their lives under those devastated wrecks, so life in Mush isn't very much reflected here. There is no life in the slums, not in the slums of Ankara, the poor villagers of Anatolia do not take part in this life. So redesign your laws, the laws of these poor people's lives. Or you won't be able to design life by coming out beyond that and saying things like that. If anything reflects on my life, if I'm being rewarded for it, it's a social government. If this government talks about $10,000 each and people lose their lives one night because of a gas stove, you can't talk about being a social government, you can't talk about $10,000. And if you do, you don't see the facts of life. Thank you all for listening to me.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0112par0872	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Sakik and his friends on Article 8: those who have refused... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 8th Amendment to the Law on Public Trade Unions. We offer and propose that the second joke of the article be changed in the following way. 02.04.2012 Mehmet Candy (Gaziantep) and his friends The regular general council meetings are held at the appointed time, not to exceed three years. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0113par0880	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0112par0881	Government?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0114par0882	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0115par0883	Mr. Free Private will speak.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0112par0884	Congressman of Manisa, Mr. Free Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0116par0887	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the amendment to the Union Act on Article 8 of the Law bill. In our motion, we object to this arrangement, which extends the mandate of union managers from three to four years. I'd like to say that we don't approve of such extensions during a period when the President's mandates have been shortened. In its universal and widest definition, the union is the organization that brings them together around common rights and interests, all workers, civil servants, regardless of language, religion, color, political opinion. These organisations are independent of state, power and parties. These organizations are opposing organizations by nature, protecting their opposing souls, regardless of who they are in power. Powers change, but the commitment of unions to fight for the rights of its members, to fight, to demand, to protect and expand the rights earned should not change. Mr. President, the definition of a union called Ak union is not a correct definition. If the union is to be given unusual colors, the universal definition is only about yellow unions. The yellow union is a union founded by the boss, who serves to divide the laborer's power, who pretends to defend the laborer, but who puts oil on the employer's bread. The boss encourages membership in that union, tries to increase the number of members of those unions, trying to make it stronger. The collective contract signed by the yellow unions pleases the boss, not the worker. One of the officers' unions in Turkey today, which you call the Ak trade union, called Bkent Arinc Bey, praised by the Minister of the Minister, was able to discuss the rights that already existed, negotiated the biggest injustice to his class and its members. The 90th article of the Constitution is clear: international agreements adopted according to the law are under the law. It is binding and binding. It is clear today that international contract provisions must be enforced instead of the provisions that violate the ILO contracts. On 9-11 February 2010, at the call of the government, KESK and Public-Sen were invited on a platform where they did not attend, the biggest betrayal of these yellow union officials who went to discuss the right to strike the officer. The process that began that day later ended with a text that did not qualify the right to strike officers in the Constitutional Amendment, a right that was necessary for international agreements seems to have been lost by their hands. Minister, according to ILO, there is no distinction between the union of officers and workers, the two unions must be the only union. He put this dress on our country's working class on September 12th, but today, when the officer sees the ruling party that handles the labor union separately, we can see that this dress that September 12th made is sitting very well on it. According to ILO, there is no right to a collective contract without a strike, and without a strike, there is no such thing as a collective contract at the end of the strike, but some lawmakers said in the September 12th referendum yesterday that if it had not been called yes, there would have been no such right at all; this is not real, it is not universal, it is not legal. I'd like to bring to your attention the European Court of Human Rights' decision of Erhan Karachay. Erhan Karachay is an officer, participated in an action, was investigated, sentenced. After he had exhausted his internal legal ways, he applied to the European Court of Human Rights, and the European Court of Human Rights ruled that Erhan Karachay had the right to a collective agreement, as did all officers, and that Erhan Karachay would not be punished for taking part in a day's work release. Now, look, I want to tell the representatives of the union who will sign this law that we haven't even made the law yet, what kind of law will be passed in the House's will, but it's obvious that it will sign. Let him go, your signature's clear. For the first six months, a 3% increase is envisioned for the second six months, which has been decided. And when the day comes, you're going to sign this signature. What a sense of unionism, what a sense of rights, what a state this is, what a shame, what a conscience this is! And I would say to such a sense of unionism, to the whole world of labor, and to the spirit of this arrangement for everyone whose feelings, perhaps, on September 12th, you've misled them, and then you've earned this right from their hands in international contracts.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0117par0898	Thank you, Mr. Special. Members of the law, I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Special and his friends on Article 8: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm reading the third motion on Article 8: To the presidency of TBM, Eight of the 200 Rows of the Numbered Legislature. Article 1 of the article. In his joke, we would like to change the sub-day to five days. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0118par0905	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0117par0906	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0119par0907	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0117par0908	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0120par0909	Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri will speak.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0117par0910	Mr. Yeniçeri, Ankara MP, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0121par0912	Mr. President, good lawmakers, production is the backbone of a country, its honor, its dignity. Production is actually the will of a nation and its economy to exist at the same time. As important as the strong implementation of production is, sharing the product as important as the production process. The share of the harvest comes with a fair method of sharing -- employed, employer and the public. Today, labour and capital peace can be found in a pure sense. It's possible to understand how damaged the economic model and the Unional regulations produced depending on the results of this model's general application. The economic model that was applied was 9.8 million -- it's not known what numbers it has now -- produced green cards, created millions of buildings and home loans, created people who couldn't pay them, brought millions of people to the point where they could feed themselves by taking advantage of municipal and social funds. The same model has increased the number of dollar billionaires under 20, when the AKP ruling in Turkey to 38, which is 28, in Japan. So right now, we're standing in front of Japan in the line of dollar billionaires, and we have dollar billionaires in front of the world's number two economy. Thus, these figures clearly reveal how the gap between the top and the bottom has grown. Of course, there are no two swords, no two heads on one shoulder, but the division of power among production factors is between justice and the fundamental purpose of social life. Rather than creating strong trade unionism, the draft law on the amendment of some articles of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security of Unions No. 4688 is a bill aimed at expanding controlled trade unionism and confederations and restricting opponents. When it comes to the AKP's ruling, the functioning trade union and social rights, it acts in a gravely negative and suspicious manner. It's an understanding that the employees are separated in letters, in numbers, giving each of them a separate status. It also means, in a sense, to divide and conquer, to divide and weaken. Just to give you an example, there are around 45,000 public employees in Turkey today who are in the position of 4/C. The future of people who have been employed in temporary personnel status for years, who are full of problems and problems, has been virtually blackened in this direction. There are virtually no guarantees in the AKP's government, including employees, and no one has any hope in the future. The demands of the right staff of public employees from 4/C are viewed in a blind and deaf approach. In 2011, employees of the 4/B contract were assigned to the staff, while public employees of 4/C have been promised to be cast after the election, while rights and justice should be the same and equal for all, but this has not been implemented. It is also a requirement of the principle of equal wages for the same social and financial rights as public employees who do the same work. The continuation of the 4/C status should be explained here that social and financial revision of 4/C status and that a similar situation cannot stop the bleeding wound. A government that does not bring permanent solutions to the problems of current workers cannot be expected to create justice and peace by changing the Law on Public Servants' Unions. In fact, it's brought in to make a formality, as if you were doing it, to make it seem reasonable or legitimate in front of the ILO or the international institutions, by leaving trade unions literally bifunctional, or dysfunctional. Its content is empty. So, the work that's been done is primarily about a government that doesn't feed its own worker, that doesn't ensure its safety. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We don't think this bill is very logical and consistent. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0122par0919	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. I submit to you the motion of Mr. Yeniçeri and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 8th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 9 of the same property, two and another. It's number nine of the 200 rows of the Bill of Law. We would like to ask that the closure of the article be removed from the text of the substance. Scholar Light Mustafa Kalaycı Sadir Durmaz Enver Erdem Özcan Yeniçeri Ali Longırmak Since the following motions are of the same nature, I have them read together: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 9th Amendment to the Law on Public Trade Unions Law. We provide and propose that the clause be removed from the text. 02.04.2012 Mehmet Candy Namik Havutça Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the bill of the 9th Amendment be removed from the draft. Pervin Buldan Secret Tilleyya Leader Fair Wolf Does the Commission agree with the two motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0123par0944	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0122par0945	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0124par0946	We can't participate because it's a text we've agreed on with the Confederates.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0122par0947	Now, I'm going to make a separate promise to the people who have the motion, if they want it. Mr. Fair Wolf, Hakkari MP... Your time is five minutes, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0125par0950	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Of course, we're discussing the union rights of 5 per cent of the workers in Turkey, but we've been discussing it properly, and we've been discussing it with them... which means we can't continue an argument that will improve democratic life in Turkey. But at this point, where we're even discussing the problem of 5 per cent, for example, seasonal workers in Kazan district of Ankara are being subjected to the persecution of the municipality. We've been searching for four days, including ruling party officials, including the governor of Ankara, Kazan Mayor, and we want to end the persecution of seasonal workers in Kazan. At the boiler, he gathers the belongings of the people who want to come and earn their bread and come and earn their bread there at the cost of hunger, and he throws them into the garbage bins and the city laden with their things. I couldn't find an official, a ruling official, who would say, "Stop this cruelty." While this is the treatment of those who work in Turkey against the people who earn their bread, it is absurd to expect a legal arrangement here that will satisfy the workers, while the ruling party members are so insensitive. We don't expect that from you. We know that you will not bring such a law, indeed, to a legal arrangement that will respond to the problems or needs of the workers. We only have to try something like this here, actually: what we say is wrong, as opposed to what we say is wrong, you say it's true. Let's say you start calling the truth the wrong way. Now, in the next bill, in this text that we're talking about, and in the 9th article we're talking about, it's not a union, it's a party organization or a party organization. What do you mean? You're letting the board decide whether or not a union branch will open or close. These are determined by the rules. Only the general council can make such decisions. But you're a union management, yes, you want yourself to have a union administration, you edit it, but if it's a union branch, it's a precaution if it goes beyond the rules set by your administration. Tomorrow, such a union administration, for example, is a branch of Officer-Sen. No, this decision made by our headquarters is not in place, we do not agree. If he says, you give them authority to close that union to the headquarters, to the board of directors. You put union organization like a party organization ahead of officers, workers. We want this clause removed from the bill because if this clause stays in the current state of the bill, you'll be completely in the way of the democratic process the next day; you'll be creating a sultan, a union sultan. At least here we're trying to carry out our warning duty to this union sultan, to the formation of this union sultan. If this arrangement is passed in the current situation, then the union will be in the position of the leader's union. Call it whatever you want to call it, or call it the black, or call it the yellow; it is no longer a union, it will not go beyond a political structure in the direction of parties. Therefore, it is important that this clause be removed from the bill. We hope you'll at least support it. I salute you all. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Thank you. On behalf of the second motion holders of the same nature, Mr. Kurt of Eskişehir, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0126par0960	Mr. President, members of the law, I have made a promise on our motion to change the Law of Public Officers Unions, 200 rows, on Article 9 of the Law bill. Therefore, first of all, I would like to extend my condolences to our fellow workers who lost their lives in the mine accident in Eskişehir Mihalıçuk district of Köğüklı district yesterday, and also to their relatives, but on this occasion, I would like to bring some matters up in the presence of the Minister. You know, about ten days ago, there was a serious business accident in Istanbul, and our fellow workers died. He died today in Mihaljuk, and he'll die somewhere else tomorrow, because it's no longer an occupational accident, it's now a job murder. In particular, I'd like to address the Minister's statement on the need to be issued immediately after the incident in Istanbul. If we had started at work last week, maybe there would have been a different result, but if we had done it since 2002, much less people, fewer workers would have lost their lives. My dear friends, the way to prevent these work killings is by bringing the law to Parliament as soon as possible, and by implementing what kind of job security is available in modern countries. That's what we expect of you. And by the way, while our Minister of Labour and Social Security is here, I'd like to talk to you about a petition that Mr. Namik Havutça, our Balıkesir MP, submitted to the Parliamentary Presidency two days ago. The working conditions of lawmakers in the Turkish Grand National Assembly are not in accordance with human rights. I also think the Minister should be involved in this. As for our motion, my dear friends, of course, it is the duty of a general council too important to be left to the board of directors of a union. If the General Assembly transfers its authority to the board of directors, it is evident from the practices in Turkey, where it can be misused and used negatively. If we're making an arrangement and we're not creating a more advanced situation in this arrangement, there's no way to say it's the right and healthy arrangement. Turkey already has to take a certain step in public unions with international contracts. The European Convention on Human Rights, the ILO agreements impose on Turkey the obligation to bring the right to a contract union with a strike, but unfortunately our government in the defense of democracy is incomplete, slow, reluctant. Public employees who try to express their demands on this matter also have a clear outcome, their daily ordeals, their persecutions. In this direction, if we really want to run democracy, if we want to start what we call pluralistic democracy, it is our job to make sure that our unions are free, independent and advanced unions. If we've been stopping to take a serious step in this matter, it's obvious that we're not sincere about it. Turkey has been through a lot of bad things, but in Turkey, with Europe, a Turkish National Assembly, which has been integrated with the world and has taken on obligations due to contracts, has to make this law modern, democratic and civilized, and we expect that from you. We'd like to thank you in advance for your support on this matter. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0127par0970	Thank you, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0128par0971	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0127par0972	I was going to vote on two motions of the same nature, and the decision was asked to be enough. Now, I'm going to put it to a vote, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept two motions of the same nature... those who refuse... There's been a disagreement between the clerks, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0129par0975	Sir, a decision is just a matter of time. What are you waiting for?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0127par0976	I'm supposed to pull it like a mirror right now?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0129par0977	Say good, sir, so people can come in.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0127par0978	We didn't wait for him to come in, sir. I just asked both ways. Please, I mean, please...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0129par0979	Is that a thing?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0127par0980	Please, I mean... I'll start the vote and give you two minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0130par0983	Don't damage government property, Mr. President. Don't shoot the pen and damage the electronic system.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0127par0984	There's nothing left that you haven't interfered with, and step in my pen.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0131par0986	Mr. President, when I read your lips, I knew you were swearing again.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0127par0987	I've never said a word to anyone, you've got it wrong, and you're insulting me.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0131par0988	You do this all the time!
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0127par0989	No, I'm not.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0131par0990	Check your candy!
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0127par0991	Friends are here, that's none of your business. Our friends see what I'm doing here, hear what I'm saying. Please, please, let's proceed with the seriousness of the House. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] There's enough to make a decision. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. It's number nine of the 200 rows of the Bill of Law. We would like to ask that the closure of the article be removed from the text of the substance. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Mr. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0132par1000	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0127par1001	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0133par1002	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0127par1003	Who will speak, sir?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0134par1004	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0127par1005	Mr. Longhorn, here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0135par1006	Mr. President, thank you. Parliament is a spoken word. Therefore, the talks need to create the greatest possible opportunity possible. Dear lawmakers, first define, concepts and language form a structure of logic. So in order for us to get the right definition of the unions right, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary something first. Let's set up a term that reminds us of their function as politicians. Let's not define the unions as the civil society group, because their real definition is the pressure groups in politics. Thus, it is necessary to describe unions as political pressure groups, because they have economic and interest in power. So they need to put pressure on management. Then they can rationally build and perform their functions correctly. If we start to define them in terms of a definition such as NGOs, trade unions can't perform their true functions, so that's how the foundations of yellow trade unionism can be laid in other areas. Dear lawmakers, in order for us to read the work and process correctly, to reflect it toward our people, we must, of course, speak of all things here. While unions are dealing with concepts like collective agreements, we should be able to see how these people are deceived. Here, the government does not inform the public the truth under the influence of the surrounding media. The ministers are on television, one of the wrong actions the government has done yesterday, one of which is expressing its discomfort, one of which is telling the truth, one of which is wrong, but they can continue to serve in the same cabinet. Adeta is like the government's Bremen harmonicas, and everyone forgets that they serve in the same cabinet while expressing the right or wrongness of the instrument in their hands, the discomfort or satisfaction of it in a different way. Dear lawmakers, there have been a lot of increases in oil, natural gas today, and how do these increases affect the country? Workers, officers will be very happy about this, because television will also mention that Turkey is growing, which will be mentioned as increasing inhospitable domesticity, but workers, civil servants, poor citizens will not be aware that this growing figure in Turkey is coming out of its own pocket. What do I mean by that? Now, I've prepared a motion to ask the government, and I'll expect an answer. The increase to 19 percent of natural gas, the increase in gas and mazota for days, the increase in electricity will increase our illegal domestic product, and that number will grow. Because Gayrisafi grew up on domestic property, the government will do propaganda on television, but our citizen will not realize that he is growing from his own back. On the one hand, the citizen will say that Turkey is growing, and it has grown into illegal domestic product. Of course it will. If you make friends with Obama, a number of agreements made in Iran take orders to narrow the trade, it is imperative that you reduce some of our consumption elements, such as oil, natural gas from Iran, and if 27 cents more are installed on the navlins, there is no doubt that there will be a greater increase in natural gas and oil tomorrows, because the government is now guided by the instructions of foreigners, by its controls, by its foreign policy, until it reaches its trade. Minister Bkent Arinc is saying something on TV that we had to do because of the external effects, because of the external markets. Well, of course, those who did these raises before 2002 did not make them out of external effects, and they were happy and willing to give them those raises. Now, these members of the government must make sure that our nation considers yesterday's talks and talks made by those in politics from the past to the present, and review the informal domestic gains that grow with these increases. This government needs to realize what serious effects it has deceived the Turkish people in the economy. Ladies and gentlemen of the law... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're done. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0136par1020	It's the stove era, Turkey.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0137par1021	Thank you, Mr. Longneck. Ladies and gentlemen, I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Tallurmak and his friends, those who have agreed... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 9th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 10 that I'm reading: 10 of the 200 Orders Numbered Bill. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. Scholar Light Mustafa Kalaycı Sadir Durmaz Enver Erdem Özcan Yeniçeri Ali Öz Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0138par1032	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0137par1033	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0139par1034	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0137par1035	Here you are, Mr. Oz, our Mersin MP.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0140par1037	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 10th Amendment to the Law of Public Officials Unions. I salute your High Council. Dear lawmakers, with this union law, we need to be very careful what we can change in society. In recent years, especially if we ignore changes in trade union activities during the ten-year period of AKP's rule, we face the fact that the right to a collective contract will not change much. I'm speaking to you as a congressman who's worked in public for many years before he became a congressman and felt the pressure of the union. I know very well the fact that the newly appointed members of the government within my institution are not members of the union, where and how they work, and you can't ignore the fact that if you go to which district of Anatolia today, which district, especially under the name of certain trade unions, you are excluded, regardless of your driver's license and merits. It's a fact that union movements and formations are essential elements of democracy both in the world and in our country. Making sure that the organisation in Turkey does not become a monopoly will not help to create a population of people in a real sense, with the assurance of pressure and concession. The idea that this will be really useful in your time of power today, if you are the judges, then when this power comes, our failure in the system will be a serious problem for future generations as well. Once again, I would like to underline the fact that the officers' union activities are under government pressure in the field. Believe me, this will not benefit our country or the power or us at all. Let's think about what the officers won at the end of the September 12th referendum, where the collective contract was promised instead of the meeting. It's just that in the time we've been here until May, we haven't even been able to get a raise in advance to be taken back from the officer. I can't help but ask myself and myself if the economy in our country is growing, and Turkey is running head-to-head with all the growing countries of the world, and China is the second country after China, and the country is the most advanced in European countries, and it's the most advanced country in the country, and it's the view of its employee and its employee who hasn't received a salary increase in five or six months, and it's the view of its employee, and it's the big picture that suits me and you. Turkey is indeed a fast-moving country in the world, but there is also a situation that has increased people like health, such as education, to spend more and more recently on basic constitutional rights, especially from their own budgets. I'd like to give you an example, for example, that the government has recently made a very good debut in the field of health: that when you go to private hospitals, you can be examined as well as you want. We know private hospitals have serious problems, infrastructure problems, long-term budget demands at the price point. I'm also a congressman who's prepared a list of questions for the ministers. But what did you get in return? An additional additional load was hit on the citizen, with an understanding that instead of government support, a 70 per cent load could be lifted to 90 per cent. Turkey really doesn't deserve this. We must not ignore the fact of what this union law will bring to employees, pensioners, especially when we make good use of our economy. In Turkey, you can't hide the facts by flipping the numbers. People are tired of this increase and the price update. The latest update, especially in natural gas, which is almost a habit of electricity, is the bill for weekly gas increases, fuel hikes... I hope that all of us will accept the fact that no matter how much you politicalize the collective contract, the unions, if you want to see them with you, there will never be a solution, and I offer my love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0141par1050	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Oz and his friends, those who agree... Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 10 has been accepted. There are two motions on Article 11 that I make read: 11 of the bill number 200 rows. If there is, they will continue to function in the confederation organs, and if there is, they will be replaced in the form of confederation organs. Alim Işım Mustafa Kalaycı Seyfetttin Yilmaz Sadir Durmaz Enver Erdem Özcan Yeniçeri I'm having the other motion read: 11th of the current bill of 200 rows. at the end of the item Their duties in the Union branch and trade union bodies will be terminated. We request that all tasks in the Union branch and trade union bodies be replaced as ▪ Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Melda Onur Kadir Gökmen Öğün Does the Commission agree with the last reading motion of Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu and his friends?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0142par1070	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0141par1071	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0143par1072	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0144par1073	Mr. Onur...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0141par1074	Istanbul MP Melda Onur. Mr. Onur, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0145par1077	Mr. President, dear friends, we've been here for some time arguing about public officials' unions, but do we know what's going on in there? There's a very important organization in my profession, a very important and respectable institution: the Union of Journalists of Turkey. And unfortunately, for some time now, there has been a very serious unrest within this union. I'd like to tell you a little bit about this. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said at a meeting of AKP mayors on 7/3/2012 that a union and arrested journalists are trying to defame the platform with the image that journalists are being arrested at ease. He used the following statements: This trade union presents a direct target of Turkey's two important reputable institutions -- one of our country's press sectors -- and one of the Anadolu Agency -- by spreading the claim that journalists have been arrested in Turkey and one of them is a direct target. It is clear that the Turkish Union of Journalists plays an active role in solidarity with arrested journalists and its natural ownership of journalists has been met by the government and the Prime Minister with discomfort. Information and hearings that have been coming to our side for some time have not been made public, but have been expressed in various environments by our various colleagues. Speaking of which, I'd like to tell you a little bit about these hearings. Mr. Secretary, we'd appreciate it if you'd pay attention to these hearings, because on the one hand, you're also interested in Mr. Bulent Arinc. For some time, an anti-union operation has been launched, along with Kemal Ozturk, who had previously served as Minister of the Prime Ministry's Press Consultancy as Chief Prosecutor of Anadolu Agency. The government's attempt to change management for Turkey's Journalists' Union failed, and this time it has been chosen to reduce the authority of the TGS (TGS). The Anadolu Agency's General Director and Administration are forcing the Anadolu Agency's employees to resign from the TGS with threats. If the pressure of resignation reaches its goal, TGS will not be in charge of the Anadolu Agency, and Turkish-Islamic TGS will be stripped of its authority. About 200 Anadolu Agency employees in two days have stated that they have resigned from the union with the threat of exile. In addition to the search for a new union with an employer-driven job, a separate operation is being carried out to take over the union administration. According to this, letters of dissatisfaction to the union administration are required to be signed in algebra and to reduce the union administration and create a new administration. Many of our friends -- unfortunately, I can't give their names here -- had to sign these letters through threat, banishment. While a union is being formed, this work, without resigning from another union, and the declaration of this union, has led to the birth of this newly formed union as a cripple. I wonder if your Ministry has started a study on this. That's what I want to know. What measures are being taken? Are they trying to form a new union? I'd like to know that, and I'd like to know your measures for the removal of a trade union, which is the nature of its solidarity with its fellow prisoners, by defending freedom of the press. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0146par1087	Mr. Onur, thank you. Congressmans, I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Onur and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the presidency of TBM, 11 of the 200 Rows of the Numbered Legislature. If there is, they will continue to function in the confederation organs, and if there is, they will be replaced in the form of confederation organs. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Mr. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0147par1094	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0146par1095	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0148par1096	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0146par1097	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0149par1098	Motive.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0146par1099	I'm reading the reason: This arrangement aims to prevent some problems that can be faced in practice. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Light and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on the 12th article, which I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second article of Article 12 of Article 12 of the Law on Change in the Law on Public Strikes Unions 200 Orders, we propose and propose that its "significant purposes be changed as,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Pervin Buldan Secret Tilleyya Leader Fair Wolf Erol Dora Sırrı Sakık Ertugrul Kürççı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 12 of the 200 rows of the Bill of Legislature. 1st article of the article states that the international institution can be established from the text of the article, 2. In his joke, we would also like to change the fifteen days of the day to the fifteen days of the day. Scholar Light Mustafa Kalaycı Sadir Durmaz Enver Erdem Özcan Yeniçeri Lütfu Türkkan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 12th Amendment to the Law on Public Trade Unions Law is the number of 200 rows in question. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. 02.04.2012 Mehmet Candy Namik Havutça Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Dilek Akagün Yılmaz The 2nd joke of Article 17 of Article 12-4688 has been changed as follows. "Confederations and confederations can form an international institution to carry out union purposes, become members of international institutions that meet their goals and withdraw from membership." Does the Commission agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0150par1126	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0146par1127	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0151par1128	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0146par1129	You don't agree. Who will discuss the motion of Mr. Sugar and his friends, sir?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0152par1131	I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0146par1132	Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, Uğur MP; come in, Ma'am.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0152par1134	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a commitment to speak in favour of the motion that we have submitted on Article 12 of Bill 200. The 12th article, which I have been promised, changes are being made in Article 17 of the Law on Public Officials' Unions No. 4688, which states that trade unions and confederations can become members of international institutions in accordance with their purposes and can establish international organisations, but in this bill, international agreements that we have signed on many issues from union membership to the right to strike have been ignored, bans have continued. We sign contracts for the International Labour Organization, then approve them in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, make it an internal rule of law, but contrary to these agreements, you ignore the rights of many officers to become members of unions. Against international agreements, judges and prosecutors can't form unions in our country, and the unions they've established are being shut down. Again, members of the armed forces and even civil servants who work at these institutions cannot join unions in our country. Likewise, our police officers who work in police services where we celebrate the 167th anniversary today cannot become members of unions. Officers who work at criminal execution agencies can't be union members. International agreements say that security forces may be limited to union organisation, but not strictly prohibited. As a matter of fact, in many European countries, there are unions established by police. These restricted areas can't express any economic, administrative, democratic and political demands, they can't claim their own rights. These forbidden officers are called: ▪ You can only vote. However, you cannot express any professional, economic and democratic rights. Otherwise, you will be guilty of a crime. In the most difficult conditions in this country, it is a very serious injustice to have officers who work in armed forces, police services and criminal execution agencies who are forced to serve at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time, to speak about their economic and autonomy rights, to be able to raise their voices, to defend their democratic rights, and to be banned from the unions. It's a violation of human rights, a violation of international agreements. The right of the people of this country to establish a union with judges and prosecutors, whose right to establish a union, which is guaranteed by the legal state of the country, which means that judges and prosecutors will be silenced when they are wronged. And for the first time in the world, a union established by judges and prosecutors has been closed in Turkey. This makes it clear that the AKP has a sense of democracy. The judges and prosecutors can only repel the rights of economic and autonomy with their own organisation and trade unions, as well as the attacks against the independence of the judiciary, its neutrality. How can we expect justice from judges and prosecutors in this country who can't be organized, can't do their part, can't be silenced, can't do the job of the government, can't do the rights, can't do the job? Ankara 15 on Jude-sen, founded by judges and prosecutors. I'd like to talk about the decision of the Business Court dated 28/7/2011. In this decision, it is clear that judges and prosecutors can form a union, No. 87 of the International Labour Organization. Due to the Lu Convention and the adoption of the European Social Condition by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the bans on Law 4688 are not valid for this reason. So the court has made it clear in this country that judges and prosecutors can actually form a union. The reason for the closure of Judiciary-Sen is not that judges and prosecutors cannot form unions, but that the union cannot be established based on professions, it must be established in service. So here, no matter what the AKP government forbids, the judges and prosecutors will be able to form a union. Our international law and Constitution gives them that right. The ruling here that judges and prosecutors cannot form a union means disregarding the court's decision and violating the Constitutional Article 138, which means interfering in the judiciary. The AKP ruling international community in our country... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0153par1146	Thank you, Mr. Akagun Yilmaz. Mr. Akagun Yilmaz and his friends' motion to vote that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 12 of the 200 rows of the Bill of Legislature. 1st article of the article states that the international institution can be established from the text of the article, 2. In his joke, we would also like to change the fifteen days of the day to the fifteen days of the day. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0154par1153	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0153par1154	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0155par1155	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0153par1156	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0156par1157	I'll do the talking, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0153par1158	Mr. Turkkan, Alderman. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0157par1162	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 12th Amendment to the Law of Public Officers Unions. I'd like to leave this law and talk about the raise that you bombarded people last week, based on the messages of friends who heard me talking here. This government, which has not paid the officer, pensioner, widow, orphan, worker for four months, has raised electricity in the dwellings by 9.33. And six months ago, he had a 9.5 increase, so the rate of increase in six months is about 20 percent. He gave the natural gas another 16.5 percent increase. He gave a 9.33 percent increase in electricity used by the farmer who watered his field. The amount of increase in the water supply has exceeded the measure of mercy. It's not a raise anymore, it's a persecution. This raise is to look out for a citizen's alimony. It's a raise, handing over a citizen's pocket. I've got a call for you: get these raises back by hand. These raises further twist the poor's backs of the poor who struggle to live in this country. Look, I want to say something. There was a statement from Mr. Finance Minister yesterday, and it's true: even with the current increase, our government is costing about $6 billion from natural gas. But that's because of you. Why? For $120, when we were taking natural gas from Azerbaijan, you got up, you went after an Armenian expansion, you got what you needed from the Armenians, and Azerbaijan raised the natural gas to $360. So we were measuring expensive natural gas from Russia with cheap natural gas from Azerbaijan, and natural gas was watching at a certain price. When you pursued the Armenian expansion, after Azerbaijan had raised the natural gas to $360, our necks were down once again. Look, following orders from the ambassador to the United States, you stopped buying oil from Iran; you returned to Libya; you are buying more expensive oil than Libya. Is that enough? It's not enough. Because we're taking natural gas from Iran. The day after tomorrow, there will be a separate increase in Iranian natural gas. All this... and I repeat, you're a government who doesn't know foreign politics. I'm not blaming this on you. As if you had believed in the Book, you have believed in it as if you had believed in it. That deep hole is dragging Turkey into the pit. Notice a little; warn your minister, warn your government. While you were doing the natural gas increases in the ring, did you increase the gas to the natural gas plants that you built with the do-and-do system, with the construction system, with the construction system, with the support of your own followers? No. You continue to give them natural gas at 40% below its cost. You're taking it out on the poor, the poor. You're making money for money fathers, you're making poor people needy, you're giving them persecution. You don't really know how to run a country; I mean it, you don't know.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0158par1170	Mr. Turkkan, please keep your suggestions to yourself.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0157par1171	You don't know how to run a country. You'll have to face it. Look, Turkey doesn't produce. We've become a non-producing country. The industry is at a standstill. The destination of non-producing economies is no different from where Greece came from. Come, give these subsidies to the energy used by the industrialist, use them for energy. There's no production in the country because of expensive energy. Save a pen for a $10 billion subsidies, give it to the industrialist, people produce it. Besides, you don't get this helix like 4/C, you get a load of jobs over the state, you get an industry job, you get a tax. You'll get 20 percent of this subsidies you've already provided 10 billion dollars for as tax. It fell to 8 billion TL. Other than that, this job, this job you've removed from the government, you've transferred to the industry, but more will remain in the government's vault. And your foreign trade doesn't give that much away. Your exports are shrinking in the face of imports every day; exports are increasing, imports are increasing. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0159par1175	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Turkkan and his friends that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm reading the final motion on Article 12: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement in Article 12 of Article 12 that changes the Law of the 200 Numbered Public Officials Unions shall be changed into "sentimental purposes" in the statement of the 12th Amendment. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0160par1182	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0159par1183	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0161par1184	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0162par1185	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0159par1186	Read the reason, please. Unions and confederations are not only members of international organisations, they are also guaranteed to form international organisations. Thus, the bill extends the scope of this right. However, the bill also opens the door to a series of problems. Unions and confederations should be able to establish an international organisation that meets general union purposes. I submit to you the motion of Mr. Buldan and his friends: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 12 accepted. There are three motions on Article 13: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The 13th Amendment to the Law on Public Servants Unions. Law number 4688 replaced by Article 18. We propose and propose that the sentence added to the fifth joke of the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Sumer Oral Enver Erdem The municipality can be established in districts and districts without a Union branch. Union district and county representatives are considered on paid leave once a week to carry out trade union activities. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 18 of Article 18 of Law 4688 be changed in the following manner, unless there is a "just cause" in Article 13 of the Law on Trade Unions. The public employer, business representative, trade union county and county representative and union branch managers cannot change the workplace unless they have a good reason and clearly state the reason for it." Pervin Buldan Secret Tilleyya Leader Fair Wolf Erol Dora Sırrı Sakık Ertugrul Kürççı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 13th Amendment to the Law on Public Trade Unions Law Article 18 of the Amendment. Article 2. Six with a joke. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. 02.04.2012 Mehmet Candy Namik Havutça Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Engin Altay The public employer, union representative, union county and county representative cannot change the business of union and union branch managers unless they have a good reason and clearly state the reason for it. The tasks of those running in the Mahalli and general elections, the union and the confederacy's bodies remain suspended during the candidacy. If they're elected, their mission is over. Article 18 of Law 2839 does not apply in the application of this joke. Do you agree with the last reading motion, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0163par1215	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0159par1216	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0164par1217	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0159par1218	Who will speak, sir?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0165par1219	Mr. Engin Altay.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0159par1220	Mr. Engin Altay, Sinop MP. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0166par1223	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, we don't expect a government that wishes we had a law on job safety. We don't expect it to bring in a union law that protects employees in favor of employees -- after a tent disaster. It is clear that the government has already set up relations in this matter, in the backward process, with a single union, in cooperation, with a ready union that is a candidate to be their own backyard. Members of parliament, in the referendum you held on September 12, 2010, you made a lot of mention of the law that came out today, the period of the collective contract will begin. You said, you spoke with a lot of eunuchs. After all this time, the bill you brought in looks like this: you're going somewhere for a wedding, there's no bride, there's no groom. What kind of wedding is this? So there's a collective contract, no strike. I mean, I don't know if there's another example in the world, but it's really nothing more than making fun of employees. I have to say, I don't find it very elegant that the majority party of parliament should underestimate employees, make such a mockery of their military struggles over the years, their struggles for labour, democracy, freedom. On the other hand, the majority of your party's government has declared their employees to be potential criminals, and it is a government that sees them that way. What you're doing is not possible to relate to democracy in any way to the opposition that KESK has launched throughout Turkey, to its protest. I mean, can your government, your Home Secretary, your governors, have the right to stop people from coming to Ankara from various provinces of Turkey from freedom to travel? It's only in martial law, it's in law enforcement. But anyway, as various opposition spokesman say, your power is no different from martial law, so civil dictatorships have replaced military dictatorships. It is not the right and right of Parliament and the government to bring down freedom of travel. On the other hand, when I was reading the speech of Mr. Bulent Arinc in Bursa, my advisor showed it to me today, and I didn't bring it here, I got goosebumps. Everyone has a certain relationship with political circles, civil society, unions, of course, that's okay. But, please, I ask you, read to you the speech that Bulent Arinc made in Bursa, regarding Officer-Sen. I'm sure you'll all feel pain, you'll all be sorry, it won't be that bad. What kind of government is that? The Minister of Labor is sitting there, and the Brünt Arinc is roaring about it in Bursak, and he's shouting: You know best, Officer-whatever you said is true... could there be such an approach? Is it a government's duty to discriminate against civil society, trade unions in the country? On the other hand, you have done to the unions of KESK, KESK, and KESK. So I'm afraid, soon you'll bring a law here, and you'll drive out all the unions from Turkey. You do that, and I'm afraid of that. There's something weirder at the Ministry of National Education. There's a union called Education One-Sen. To me, Mr. Minister, 10 percent of the executives of the National Ministry of Education are not members of the Education One. Let him say, "I will take all my words back." He can't! Can all national education directors be members of the same union, Mr. Lawmakers? What conscience would accept that? Is that a thing? You're doing it wrong, that's not gonna happen. You can't hold the freedom of organization limited to your backyard unions, limiting it to further democratic speeches. People laugh at it, that's what happens. Congressmans, don't do this, don't separate Turkey. During a period of time in Turkey, these people experienced camping at the National Front. Do not bring Turkey to such a point, nor bring the workers to such a point. I want to be explained to you: How does a union in your power grow 13 stories? What's it got, what's it got? But I keep telling you, you're a party now purified, and you're the government, and that's what's going to happen in the first election.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0167par1233	You just got out of the election!
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0168par1234	Congressmans, Mr. Altay and...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0169par1235	Mr. President, the expression used by the speaker in his speech is not a pleasant expression.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0170par1236	Why not?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0169par1237	So we want him to take that statement back.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0170par1238	What do you mean, what's a rosary?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0171par1239	Tefessuh means he's bankrupt.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0170par1240	Mr. President, if you promise, I'll explain.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0172par1241	No...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0170par1242	Do you ever get it back? I say you're rotten from politics. What's wrong with that?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0173par1243	Tefessuh means he's bankrupt, he's Ottoman.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0174par1244	What do you mean, you're rotten from politics? No way!
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0175par1245	Friends, Mr. Altay and...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0176par1246	I'm running a diagnostic, but if you want me to fix it, I'll do it.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0175par1247	It's up to you, so it's up to you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0177par1248	Those who call us "raised" themselves are fossils, fossils!
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0176par1249	I didn't take it back. I gave you your reasons.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0175par1250	Yes, sir. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Altay and his friends, those who don't accept... those who don't... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Unless there is a legitimate reason in Article 13 of Article 13 for the Amendment to the Law of the 200 Numbered Public Officials Unions Act, and we propose that Article 4688 of Article 18 be changed in the following way. The public employer, business representative, trade union county and county representative and union branch managers can't change the workplace unless they have a good reason and clearly state the reason for it." Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0178par1258	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0175par1259	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0179par1260	Can I make a quick statement?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0175par1261	Yes, please.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0179par1262	Sir, an assessment has just been made, referring to the executives of the Ministry of National Education. The managers can't be unionists, guys, so we don't know what they mean. The expert, the inspector, the head of the department and all the executives are not unionists, so let me make this clear. We can't agree with the motion, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0180par1264	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0181par1265	I'm reading the reason: This statement suggests that union managers and representatives can't be replaced unless there's a good reason. With this declaration out of the law, union administrators and representatives will be allowed to be replaced, even for no good reason. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Buldan and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The 13th Amendment to the Law on Public Servants Unions. Law number 4688 replaced by Article 18. We propose and propose that the sentence added to the fifth joke of the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends The municipality can be established in districts and districts without a Union branch. Union district and county representatives are considered on paid leave once a week to carry out trade union activities. Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0182par1275	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0181par1276	Your Honor, do you agree with the motion, sir?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0183par1277	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0181par1278	Elizığ MP Enver Erdem on the motion. Your Grace, please.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0184par1281	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the motion for the 13th Amendment to the Law on Public Officers' Unions No. 4688. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, of course, this bill was an amendment to the Constitution in 2010. In the form of this bill, in its place, what needs to be done is the collective contract and the Council of Referee of Public Officials, which is created by this law. However, in terms of content, the formation of both the collective contract and the Council of Public Officers Referee does not make it important for public officials to maintain their rights and laws. So this arrangement has been a so-called arrangement, not an intrinsic one. There will be a confederacy with the government and the government who will make the collective agreement. In both the Referee Board and the collective agreement, this confederacy, which is solely in favor of the government, will have a say and a signature. Although the other two confederates have the right to speak, they will not have the authority to sign the collective contract or to go to the People's Committee of Judges. The confederacy, which is the government's ally, will represent members of their own trade unions, members of other confederate unions, both non-union members and pensioners. With this practice, both democracy and the principle of reconciliation will be seriously injured. Dear lawmakers, this bill is not fit for international contracts because international contracts guarantee the right to strike. Unfortunately, in our arrangement, we can't talk about a strike for public officials. This bill also limited the scope of public officials who could be union members. In criminal execution institutions, at the National Security Council, at the TSK and National Defence Ministry, public officials and civil servants of the Turkish Armed Forces, the Ministry of National Defence and police officers have also been excluded. Dear lawmakers, the reasons for the existence of unions, collective contract of employment, the Public Officers Referee Board, are to ensure that public officials are entitled to their rights from national income, prosperity growth. These mechanisms, as I've just said, have been shaped, but it's not possible to serve its true purpose. There is no regulation in favor of the officers in this bill. There is no democracy in this bill. There is no union in this bill. There is no strike in this bill. Public officials have no expectations in this bill. Now, we're talking about a bill here. A public servant of God does not care about a bill involving about 5 million public servants or workers. There's only one thing they've been waiting for, and they want to get a pay raise that's been late for about four months, precious lawmakers. Now, valuable lawmakers, numbers have been announced, Turkey has grown by 8.5 per cent, on the other hand, we're talking about yesterday's raises. We're the second country in the world to grow after China, but we have to say that this growth is made with hot money, that we can't grow by producing and that this growth can't spread to the bottom. A number of speakers have just expressed that a new $38 billionaire has emerged in Turkey, and you need to explain on this platform how public servants, the business, the poor, the poor, the farmer should have the numbers transferred into their pockets by your power. Now, if the woes of this poor wretch come up, may God grant you a decision which I hope you will have, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit01spe0185par1290	Your Grace, thank you. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Erdem and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 13th article is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0185par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 89th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Law Bill 200 rows from where we left off. The commission is in place. The government is in place. There are four motions on Article 14: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 14th Amendment to the Constitution of the 200 Deputies of Public Officials Unions. We offer and propose that the matter framework be changed in the following way. A. Sibel Gönul Oya Eronat Zeynep Karahan Good Ali Reza Alaboyun Osman love Look Article 14-4688, under the fourth section of the Law, the term "Property Committees" has been changed in the form of "Accession of Government," the first joke of Article 19 and the second joke (a) and (h) bents have been replaced in the following manner, adding the "consultory" to come after the declaration of "requirement of social gender" (g). Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 14th Amendment to the Constitution of the 200 Deputies of Public Officials Unions. We offer and propose that the matter framework be changed in the following way. Hülya Trust Sedef Little Sena Kaleli Sakine Öz Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Article 14-4688 has been changed in the form of admin boards (apartment of Article 14-4688), the first joke of Article 19 and the second joke (a) of Article 19 (h) have been changed in the following way, and the place of the resting place (g) has been added to the order of the social gender (e.g. after the declaration). Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the framework of the Law on Change in the Law on Public Officials Unions. We propose and propose the addition of the new (f) bendi (f) bendi and the text below (f) bendi to be added to the framework of the item. Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal It is also part of the law to sue members for individual transactions and regulatory procedures established on their members, and therefore to be a part of the lawsuits launched against regulatory procedures, and to prosecute confederations against regulatory procedures, which are the basis of which the members of the Member States will be prosecuted in their disputes regarding governance, in the monitoring of their common rights and interests, or in the need of legal assistance. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 14th Amendment to the Constitution of the 200 Deputies of Public Officials Unions. In the form of the article "Consultation and Executive Boards" proposed for Section 4 of Article 4688; in the form of the first and second joke of 19 Articles (h) and (f) be replaced in the following way. Article 14-4688 of the 19th Article of the Law has been changed in the following way as well as in the 1st and second joke (h). "Public officials are authorized to side with their unions and confederates in their collective contract negotiations within the framework of the provisions of this law and to decide whether to strike." "f) to represent or represent the union and its members in their disputes regarding the administration of the union and trade union members, or in case the joint rights and the need for legal aid arises, or the union members, or their heirs, in front of management and judicial bodies at all levels and levels, to prosecute the regulatory and individual proceedings established about union members and union members, and therefore to be a part of the cases filed against them. It is part of the dam for the Confederates to sue against regulatory procedures that concern public officials." "h) In the event of natural disasters such as fire, flooding, earthquakes, building housing, health and education facilities in areas that have suffered from disaster, without the need for membership, without over 10 per cent of the cash presence, and with the same goal, and collecting the same and cash assistance. The fund-raising activities of the unions and confederations conducted within this scope are not subject to permission under Article 6 of the Help Collector's Law 2860." Pervin Buldan Secret Tilleyya Leader Fair Wolf Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0186par0043	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0185par0044	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0187par0045	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0188par0046	Motive.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0185par0047	Read the reason, please. Under the proposed amendments to the 4th Section of Law 4688, instead of the High Executive Council, the Public Staff Advisory Board is being formed, so it is now 14th of the Bill. It is recommended that the title of Section 4 be changed in the form of "Accessions, Prohibitions and Participation in Management." The amendment proposes that the title of the item be referred to by the board names. As a whole, the People's Workers' Unions Act to Change the Union Law is pushing the unions out of the collective contract system. That is the purpose of entering the bill in the form of "Confederations" and the non-remembering of the unions. The rule, however, is that unions, not confederates, but unions, have collective contracts. Of course, collective agreements must and must be made with confederations on the rights and interests of all public officials. However, problems related to the services of public servants can only be known by trade unions and proposals for solutions can be improved. Since there can't be confederations without unions, there can't be a collective contract system where unions are thrown out of the loop and in some way meaningless. Besides, there is no way that this arrangement can be associated with universal working relations and union rights. This is the 19th amendment of Act 4688. The clause (f) is intended to be written in a clearer and more understandable way. So the restrictions on the proceedings of the union and confederates will be lifted. Instead of suing for single union members, the union and the confederation would have contributed to the procedure economy. With the acceptance of the amendment offer, the workload of the judiciary will also be reduced. Not only in our country, but in the belief that the most powerful democratic mass organizations around the world are able to do much after natural disasters, the same and cash collections are opening up, not through public institutions and organisations, but through their own rights, and they are advised to remove this activity directly from the scope of Act 2860. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Buldan and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the framework of the Law on Change in the Law on Public Officials Unions. We offer and propose the addition of the new (f) bendi (e.g., e.g., e.g., e.g., e.g., e.g., e. e., e. e. e. e. e. e. e. "f") bendi, and the text below (f) bendi. Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends (f) "In the disputes regarding the administration of the bodies, it is also part of the imposition that if joint rights and interests are observed or the need for legal assistance arises to represent or impose their heirs in front of the administration and judicial bodies at all levels and levels of governance and judicial bodies to prosecute members of the individual procedures and to be a party to the regulatory procedures which are the basis for them and therefore to be a part of the cases brought against the regulatory procedures." Do you agree with the commission motion?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0189par0060	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0185par0061	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0190par0062	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0191par0063	Motive, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0185par0064	Read the reason, please. Under Article 3 of the International Labour Organization ILO Convention 87 of Union Freedom and Protection of Organization Rights, which is in accordance with Law 25 November 1992 and 3847, the rule is that employees and employers must organise their organisations' regulations, freely select their representatives, regulate their administration and organise their activities, and establish business programmes, while the state authorities are bound to refrain from any action that should be used in accordance with the law. Article 151 of the Act 151, which is in accordance with Act 25 November 1992 and 3848, was adopted under the rule that if there are no more favourable provisions that can be applied to this section, it will apply to all who are employed by public authorities, and that the purpose of the public officials organization is to defend and improve the interests of its members. Again, on May 22, 2004, Law number 5170 added to the 90th Article of the Constitution titled "contamination of international agreements," which was adopted according to the procedure, under which international agreements and laws on fundamental rights and freedoms have been adopted, and under which the laws of international agreements would be based on the same issue. I submit to you the motion of Mr. Oral and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same. I'll have these motions read and processed together. I'm going to make a separate promise to them at the request of the motionholders. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 14th Amendment to the Constitution of the 200 Orders of Public Servants Unions. We offer and propose that the matter framework be changed in the following way. Hülya Trust (Izmir) and his friends Article 14-4688 has been changed into the term "Accession of Government" in the fourth section of the Law, adding the "consultory" to come after the declaration of Article 19 and the second joke (a) and (h) bents in the following way, (g) bendine's resting places, following the declaration of "constitution" in the second verse. Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı (Istanbul) and his friends. Does the commission agree with two proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0192par0078	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0185par0079	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0193par0080	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0194par0081	Motive...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0195par0082	Motive...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0196par0083	I'm reading the reason: One of the key indicators of being a democratic, social and legal state is the freedom to organize. In order to harmonise our legislation with the EU directive 2006/54, it has been arranged to consider the equality of social gender in all trade unions' activities, as well as the union rights of basic human rights, due to the undiscriminate recognition of all employees. The reason for the second motion is the same, so I'm not having it read. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motions adopted, I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 15 that I'm reading: T. B. M. Head of M It's the 15th annual bill of 200 rows. Instead of meeting each year in March and November, we want it to be replaced every year in February and October. My daughter Kurt Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Çam Binnaz Earth Ali Serindağ Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0197par0097	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0196par0098	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0198par0099	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0196par0100	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0199par0101	Mehmet Crescent Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0196par0102	Mr. Kaplan. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0200par0105	Mr. President, I have made a motion on the 15th Amendment to the Law on Public Officers Unions. I salute your grand delegation and all the arrested MPs. The primary goal of union organisation is to use collective agreements, which is to use collective bargaining freedom as necessary. With this bill, the non-confederation of confederations that do not agree with the collective agreement does not qualify for International Labour Organization contracts. The right to form a union and become a union in the 87th Convention of ILO is recognised to all employees, no exceptions. Thus, the freedom of organisation has been prevented from being classified and limited by distinctions such as workers, civil servants, or contractors. The fact that individuals work in private or in public or represent an ethnic and political view does not require segregation. The differences with this bill have not been eliminated, the public employee and private employee have been discriminated against. In addition, there is a tenured and contractual distinction between public employees. In the same line of work, in the same workplace, this bill reciprocalizes those with contracts among those who do the same work. It is against the ILO and human rights agreements that employees are defined as 4/B/B/4/CLI. During your rule, you did not leave nearly public employees under the name of specialization and apocalypse. Because I'm a physician, I'd like to talk to you about what you've done in the field of health. In addition to privatisation and marketing as health care, you first subcontracted cleaning and cooking services in hospitals and then subcontracted the monitoring and lab services in the hospital, and now you subcontract doctors and nurses by contracting them. Even further, by bringing in foreign doctors and nurses, you threatened the peace and security of your work by putting sticks to existing physicians and nurses. So I'm asking you, who's left with the basics of health care? If collective business talks do not eliminate public and private discrimination and does not give the employee the right to a collective contract strike, it remains symbolic. Work is the highest value and must be protected. And it's not enough that it's all in the law, and I want to remind you of what you do to those who make such statements during your administration, despite constitutional rights, individuals, unions and NGOs who have announced their rights through the press. You abuse public workers, civil society organizations, pepper gas, and arrest them, who seek their rights, express negatives, express their views on matters that concern them and the community. If it's a constitutional right, then why the grudge, the hatred? You have to ask yourself. Look, I'd like to remind you of the number of workers in your administration who were finally subject to a collective contract of employment. When you came to power in 2002, 1 million workers in Turkey had the opportunity to benefit from a collective contract of employment. It's 2011, it's 500,000 people. I'm asking you now, where are these workers, 500,000 workers, they've improved their resources, they've been out of labor? I want you to put your hands on your conscience, and I want you to think about it. One of the obstacles to the organisation of work is that it takes months and years when it is contested after becoming a member of the trade union in the private sector. I'd like to pay my respects to all of you for the end of my time, thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0201par0112	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Kaplan and his friends, those who agree... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. There are three motions on the 16th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current Public Officials' Unions Act is 16. Law number 4688 replaced with Article 23. We request and demand that the last sentence of the second paragraph be removed from the article text, and the following paragraph be added after the third paragraph. Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Erkan Akçay Sumer Oral Mesut Dedeoğlu The union representatives and trade union business representatives perform their union activities once a week at work and are considered on sabbatical during that time. I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The number of the two hundred rows in question is the 16th Amendment to the Law of Public Officials Unions. Article 23 of Article 4688. We propose and propose that the proposal for changing the clause be changed in the following way. 02.04.2012 Mehmet Candy Namik Havutça Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İlhan Demiröz Kadir Gökmen Öğen Aykan Erdemir Turhan Tayan Article 23 of Article 16-4688 has been changed as follows, along with the title. Article 23 - Each union is authorized to select representatives among its members. Union representatives are elected from the office for a term of a general board in the unions' charters, to listen to their members' problems with the employer or the workplace, to deliver them to relevant locations, and to communicate between the union and the employer. Each union has a number of representatives, between 1-50 public officials, and between 51-100 at most three, and 101-200 at most five, 201-500 at most seven, 501-1000 at most, fifteen at most. One of these representatives can be appointed chief representative by the union. Business union representatives perform these tasks at work, four hours a week. Representatives are on leave at this time. The public employer makes it easier for union representatives to perform their duties within working hours and outside, not to interfere with the functioning of management and service." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 16th Amendment to the Law on Public Strikes' Unions shall be changed in the following way. Article 23 of Article 16-4688 has been changed as follows, along with the title. Article 23 - Each union is authorized to select representatives among its members. Union representatives are elected from the office for a term of a general board in the unions' charters, to listen to their members' problems with the employer or the workplace, to deliver them to relevant locations, and to communicate between the union and the employer. Each union has a number of representatives, between 10 and 50 public officials, and between 51 and 100, at most three, and between 101 and 200, at most five, and between 201 and 500, at most seven, and 501-1000, eleven, and more than 1,000. One of these representatives can be appointed chief representative by the union. Business union representatives perform these tasks at work, four hours a week. Representatives are on leave at this time. The public employer makes it easier for union representatives to perform their duties during and outside working hours, not to interfere with the functioning of management and service. Pervin Buldan Secret Tilleyya Leader Fair Wolf Erol Dora Sırrı Sakık Ertugrul Kürççı Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0202par0151	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0201par0152	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0203par0153	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0201par0154	Mr. Buldan...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0204par0155	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0201par0156	I'm reading the reason: Undiscriminately, union representatives were intended to be granted legal guarantees, increase the number of representatives, and organise the authority and assurances of representatives. Congressmans, I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Buldan and his friends, those who agree... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The number of the two hundred rows in question is the 16th Amendment to the Law of Public Officials Unions. Article 23 of Code 4688. We propose and propose that the proposal for changing the clause be changed in the following way. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Article 23 of Article 16-4688 has been changed as follows, along with the title. Article 23 - Each union is authorized to select representatives among its members. Union representatives are elected from the office for a term of a general board in the unions' charters, to listen to their members' problems with the employer or the workplace, to deliver them to relevant locations, and to communicate between the union and the employer. Each union has a number of representatives, between 1-50 public officials, and between 51-100 at most three, and 101-200 at most five, 201-500 at most seven, 501-1000 at most, fifteen at most. One of these representatives can be appointed chief representative by the union. Business union representatives perform these tasks at work, four hours a week. Representatives are on leave at this time. The public employer makes it easier for union representatives to perform their duties within working hours and outside, not to interfere with the functioning of management and service." Do you agree with Mr. Aslanoglu and his friends' motion?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0205par0171	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0201par0172	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0206par0173	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0201par0174	Who will speak, Mr. Aslanoglu?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0207par0175	Motive...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0201par0176	I'm reading the reason: With the proposal, union representatives are granted legal guarantees regardless of distinction, based on the principle of the democratic community is an organised society, increasing the number of representatives and arranging the powers and guarantees of representatives. Congressmans, I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Aslanoglu and his friends: those who agree... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current Public Officials' Unions Act is 16. Law number 4688 replaced with Article 23. We request and demand that the last sentence of the second paragraph be removed from the article text, and the following paragraph be added after the third paragraph. Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends The union representatives and trade union business representatives perform their union activities once a week at work and are considered on sabbatical during that time. Mr. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0208par0186	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0201par0187	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0209par0188	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0201par0189	Read the reason, please. 6 of the ILO Convention No. 151. Articleal Public Servants carry the title of Easyness for Organizations. 1. "The representatives of the well-known organisations of public officials will be provided with ease to allow them to perform their duties quickly and effectively during or outside working hours." 2. The article states: "Such conveniences will not interfere with the effective functioning of management or service." 3. Also: The quality and scope of these conveniences are 7. The article states that "all other methods that allow public officials and public officials to discuss working conditions and representatives of public officials to participate in the dictation of the following conditions will be determined in appropriate ways in which the rope should need to be developed and used in the most broadest way." His judgment is granted. It is the 87 International Work Convention on Union Freedom and Protection of the Right to Organization. That's the third contract of the contract. Article 2. The joke is, "The public authorities must refrain from any interference that will limit this right or prevent this right from being used in accordance with the law." In Article 8/1 and 8/2, "Workers and employers must abide by the law, such as the other people and communities, in the use of these rights that belong to them." "The law cannot harm or harm the assurances envisioned by this contract." 11th annual contract entitled Protection of the Right to Organised Rights "Every member of the International Labour Organization, under which this contract is in effect, is obliged to take all necessary and appropriate measures in order to ensure that employees and employers freely exercise the right to organise." He carries his judgments. All these international rules, T. B. M. It was found in accordance with the laws issued by M and published in the Official Journal. [[RG.11.12.1992, 21432.]] Our constitution is 90. According to the last joke of the article, "International agreements adopted according to procedure are under law. The Article 151 and 87 provisions of the Constitutional Court shall not be applied to the Constitutional Court on the grounds of violation of the Constitution concerning these things, stressing that the provisions of the Act are equal to the law of internal law. A request for a change was intended for trade union representatives and trade union business representatives to perform their trade union activities more effectively and efficiently at the institution. Congressmans, I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Shandır and his friends: those who agree... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the motions, I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is no motion on the 17th article. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on the 18th article: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The framework of the Law of Public Servants and Trade Unions, which is currently under way, is 18. Law number 4688 replaced with Article 28. We would like to propose that you be removed from the clause text of the article "by considering the legislation that regulates the financial and social rights of public officials." Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Erkan Akçay Sumer Oral Alim Light Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The number of the two hundred rows in question is the 18th Amendment to the Law of Public Officials Unions. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. 02.04.2012 Mehmet Candy Namik Havutça Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Uğur Bayraktutan Article 28 - 4688 of the Law has been changed in the following way, along with its title. Article 28- The general collective agreement covers the common economic, social, democratic, political, autonomy and professional rights and interests of public officials within the framework of the principles laid out in this law. The collective service arm agreement includes the common economic, social, democratic, political, autonomy and professional rights and benefits of public servants who work in the general budgetary institutions and organisations that are part of a service branch within the framework of the basics laid out in this law. The institutional collective contract covers the common economic, social, democratic, political, autonomy and professional rights and benefits of public officials working in private budgeted public institutions and regulatory institutions, social security institutions, municipalities, municipal private administrations and local government units under the basis specified in this law. The implementation of collective contract provisions cannot be discriminated against public officials who are members of the union and are not members of the union. The general and service body agreement provisions are valid for the fiscal year following the date of the contract. Public officials and retired public officials benefit from collective contract provisions." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 18 of the Law on the Law on Public Trade Unions, in the following way. Pervin Buldan Secret Tilleyya Leader Fair Wolf Erol Dora Sırrı Sakık Ertugrul Kürççı Article 28 of Law No. 4688 has been changed in the following way, along with its title. Article 28 - The collective contract covers the common economic, social, democratic, political, autonomy and professional rights and interests of public officials. The implementation of collective contract provisions cannot be discriminated against public officials who are members of the union and are not members of the union. The collective agreement provisions are valid for the fiscal year following the date of the contract. Public officials and retired public officials benefit from collective contract provisions." Mr. Commission, do you agree with Buldan and his friends' motion?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0210par0238	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0201par0239	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0211par0240	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0201par0241	Mr. Buldan?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0212par0242	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0201par0243	Read the reason, please. The change aims to expand the scope of the collective agreement. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The number of the two hundred rows in question is the 18th Amendment to the Law of Public Officials Unions. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. 02.04.2012 Namik Havut (Fishesir) and his friends Article 28 - 4688 of the Law has been changed in the following way, along with its title. Article 28- The general collective agreement covers the common economic, social, democratic, political, autonomy and professional rights and interests of public officials within the framework of the principles laid out in this law. The collective service arm agreement includes the common economic, social, democratic, political, autonomy and professional rights and benefits of public servants who work in the general budgetary institutions and organisations that are part of a service branch within the framework of the basics laid out in this law. The institutional collective contract covers the common economic, social, democratic, political, autonomy and professional rights and benefits of public officials working in private budgeted public institutions and regulatory institutions, social security institutions, municipalities, municipal private administrations and local government units under the basis specified in this law. The implementation of collective contract provisions cannot be discriminated against public officials who are members of the union and are not members of the union. The general and service body agreement provisions are valid for the fiscal year following the date of the contract. Public officials and retired public officials benefit from collective contract provisions." Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0213par0260	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0201par0261	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0214par0262	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0215par0263	Mr. Ugur Flagtutan will speak.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0201par0264	Mr. Flagtutan, Artvin MP. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0216par0267	Mr. President, very valuable lawmakers, I would like to first point out that the referendum held on September 12, 2010 was granted a collective contract with public employees, but the right to strike was not granted. We think it's one foot short. In a contract with no right to strike... it's like going hunting with an empty gun. That's why we think it's not complete and it's incomplete. In fact, we all know that on September 12, 2010, the event was not about them, but about the effort to design the judiciary. On September 12, 2010, both the Supreme Court and the judicial institutions were designed in a sense. That mine we were just talking about, unfortunately, has been eliminated from the provisions regarding hydroelectric power plants that the administration courts are doing in place. My dear friends, one of the main criteria set by the International Labour Organization is the fact that both the right to a collective contract and the right to a strike are also a human right beyond the right of employees. Here it is satisfied with the arrangements brought by the ruling party. We know that the current bill is full of flaws. The introduction of this is also thought - despite its consummation -- after nearly eighteen, nineteen months -- have passed over the September 12, 2010 arrangement. I offer this to the high council's compliments. In the event of a union dispute, public officials apply only to the People's Officers' Board of Referee -- and besides -- in a limited manner. I just want to say that we don't find this very accurate. The absence of a strike or any other right-seeking method is one of the flaws in the bill, my dear friends. The bill is on a single level, and it is only allowed for the confederation of public officials to sign collective contracts, which seems to be one of the flaws. I asked the Minister yesterday. Of course, the Constitution has expressed shortcomings in the regulations. The amendments made in Article 53 of the Constitution must be reflected to pensioners, but the Constitution has given the grounds for such an arrangement, Mr. Secretary, given the shortcomings in the Constitution. Union building, pensioners have no right to a union, unfortunately, no right to a member. And I present this verb to the compliments of your grand delegation. The definition of the collective agreement in the bill and the scope of the collective agreement allow public officials to discuss the issue in a limited number -- if it becomes legal. In the current arrangement, the collective contract includes coefficients and indicators to be applied to public officials, monthly and fees, any increase and compensations, additional payment, collective contract bonuses, overtime, bonuses, birth, death and family allowances, funeral costs, food and clothing benefits and other financial and social benefits. Monthly and wages and demands for changes in other financial and social rights are excluded from the collective agreement. My dear friends, with the sentence brought in here, the definition of the contract and the scope of the collective contract, which is actually included in the bill, are limited to public officials. There are some issues that have never come up and are never discussed. So that if the bill is passed, at least public officials will not be able to discuss the working conditions at all, they cannot discuss a major problem such as promotion, a situation that would be a major problem for them, they will not be able to raise the issue of seniority, they will not be able to raise the issue of career. They will not be able to bring up their demands on overwork fees, one of their most important problems, as part of this bill. Such as this, the rights of self will not be raised in any way. In a sense, economic rights other than financial rights -- if this current bill is adopted -- will not be raised. Among other things, there will be a bill that will not be discussed by democratic and political rights, which is impossible to accept. If public servants can't discuss them at the table, if they can't meet their demands, what demands will they meet? Therefore, I would like to say that we feel that these restrictions are not very accurate, that these limitations, such as the setting of such a claim, are of no benefit to public employees. At the same time, the bill is being proposed as a very illegal and restrictive design for securing union rights and freedoms. In fact, we think that the basic objective here is to secure the freedoms without any sanctions, without any restrictions, to bring the demands of public employees to the table, and to make the necessary talks in accordance with these demands, and to apply the legal regulations and infrastructure of the legal arrangement that will meet the requirements of these demands. We offer the flaws in this matter to the compliments of your great delegation. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0217par0280	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Flagtutan and his friends' motion to vote: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The framework of the Law of Public Servants and Trade Unions, which is currently under way, is 18. Law number 4688 replaced with Article 28. We propose and propose the release of the clause of "the legislation that regulates the financial and social rights of public officials" in the article. Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0218par0287	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0217par0288	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0219par0289	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0220par0290	Motive...
tbmm-2012-04-03sit02spe0217par0291	I'm reading the reason: With the subcommittee report, the statement is vague. An uncertain situation arises regarding the price situation of public employees, which rules on which collective agreements will be passed. This constrains the right to a collective contract that is defined in the Constitution and must be established by the free will of the parties. The Constitution is 128. The second article of the article states: "The qualifications of officers and other public officials are regulated by law, their appointment, their duties and privileges, their rights and obligations, their monthly and allowances, and other equity work. However, collective agreements on property and social rights are kept." He's in charge. Article 28 of Article 28 of Law 4688 limits the scope of the right to a collective contract in Article 18 of the draft. Such regulation is unconstitutional and envisions a structure that limits the financial and social rights of public officials in public contract talks. Mr. Shandır and I submit to your votes the motion of your friends: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-04-03sit03spe0217par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 89th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Law Bill 200 rows from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Law proposal for the development of forest villagers; Law proposal for the development of forest villages; İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi, Ankara MP Emine Gıçer Tarhan and Yalova MP Muharrem İnce and 68 MPs; 2/B Peace Act; 2/B Minister Mehmet Şandir MP Mehmet Şandir.; Law proposal for the development of forest villages; Republican People's Party Group Chairs Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi, Ankara MP Emine Gır Tarhan and Yalova MP Muharrem İnce; 2/B Peace Act; 2/B Agreement for Foreign Affairs; Ministership of Foreign Affairs and Development; Ministership of the Parliament and Ministership of the Turkish Parliament and Ministership of the Turkish Parliament; Ministership of the Turkish Parliament and Ministership of Parliament and Ministership of Parliaments and Development; Ministership of the Parliament and Ministership of Parliaments of Turkish Parliament and Development; Ministership of Turkish Parliament and Development of Turkish Parliament and Developments of Parliaments of Turkish Parliaments of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will no longer be available, it is Wednesday (April 4th 2012) that we discuss the draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
