tbmm-2012-04-23sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 97th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now we'll read the Istrillal March. [[Identical March]] Congressmans, Mr. President has honored our great House of Honor by taking its place in the audience box. I welcome them in the name of our coven. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] According to our agenda, in accordance with the decision made by the General Assembly on April 18, 2012, we begin our talks on the 92nd anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and on the celebration of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day. Honourable MPs, we celebrate the 92nd anniversary of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Sovereignty and Children's Day. For ninety-two years, our House has worked as the center of national will for the future of our country and the future of our nation. The effort and contribution of the valued lawmakers who have served under this lofty roof in the achievements we have achieved so far has been enormous. Here we are, ninety-two years ago today, under difficult circumstances, the House has established our independence and established our republic. Turkey's Grand National Assembly has created a modern state with its institutions and institutions from the ruins of the empire. In those years, many parts of our land were occupied, their armies scattered, and the land was taken over, but in the hearts of our nation, independence and love of country and great nation consciousness lived alive and alive all the time today. Following the election in Anatolia, the Parliament opened on April 23, 1920 with the participation of MPs who came to Ankara under difficult circumstances. The sheriff, who opened the House on that day as the oldest member of this great Assembly, said: "With the help of God and with the help of God, I am putting the responsibility of our nation's internal and external independence directly into the truth and opening the Grand National Assembly to all who have begun to rule it. With such excitement and hope and prayer, our Assembly has led our national struggle and has won our independence. He's the only veteran in the world. Therefore, this Parliament is the Veteran Assembly, this Parliament is a glorious Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has always made a great effort to carry out its historical responsibility in the 90-year period. Our national interests and honor have been sought by the overseer, the development and development of our country, and the rise of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. It is the right pride of all of us to have served in Parliament with such a glorious and honorable past. Dear lawmakers, the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey ninety-two years ago is an expression of the inevitability of national sovereignty and the superiority of national will. The superiority of national will cannot be passed on to us and cannot be abandoned. The national sovereignty is hidden in the spirit of our national struggle. Our national struggle is a public movement led by Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Our nation has driven the enemy out of the dorm and established its own republic and democracy. Republic and democracy are our greatest achievements. We owe it to those who give it to us. The superiority of national will is also the power of democracy. National sovereignty is meaningful with democracy. The violation of the will of the people and the interruption of the people will cause the greatest harm to democracy and the nation. It is our basic duty not to violate national sovereignty, to uphold the law and sovereignty of the House. Attempts for national will must be considered as initiatives towards the founding philosophy of this country and the will of the people. Multi-party life, a functioning democratic system, the national will that exists here is our greatest gain. It is our common responsibility to protect it and to improve our democracy. After all the painful experiences that we've experienced and experienced, we must all accept this with complete sincerity. Ladies and gentlemen of the First Assembly, the esteemed members of the First Assembly have established our republic after the struggle in difficult conditions. We're working hard to take this further, develop the standard of democracy and human rights, and make it a modern republic. It's clear that we're in the process of rapid change. New eras bring new problems. We're facing new problems every day. Although we have many different reasons and difficulties with the judicial process, today we have a problem with representation. A solution must be resolved together by all aspects of the matter. The political institution and we are paying the price, even though the causes and resources of this problem are different. With all the problems we've had, that's the responsibility we're facing. Honourable lawmakers, according to technological developments, sociological changes, production relations and information production, the world is being reshaped and life is being rebuilt. Turkey, which is trying to integrate with the modern world, is in the process of rapid economic, political and cultural change. Today, a young population grows in different cultural climates and relationships, while our country has great historical and cultural potential. In the middle of the East and West, it is a country that is trying to modernize its traditional properties. It's probably the only country in the world that has different cultural traditions and features of Eastern civilization and Western civilization. First of all, we're an imperial heir. However, it cannot be ignored that we are in the process of major modernisation, regeneration and reform with the republic, that we have new institutions, institutions, institutions; this is a process that carries on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and We're trying to improve our democracy. Lack of democracy leads to problems as a fundamental social failure. Democracy in today's world is now as necessary as bread, as necessary as water. Looking at the developments in the Middle East today, we see what a blessing democracy is. However, we see that democracy does not come from today to tomorrow, it develops itself in the process, it creates institutions and rules, and it transforms it into a culture, which is about two centuries old for us, starting with the Senedi Alliance. Our democracy has come to this day, dealing with cuts and problems, and we've had a lot of losses in the process, but we've never lost our democracy effort, our goal of becoming a free and improved country, and we don't want any more losses. Everyone has a great responsibility for our democracy, and in the first place it's up to us, you respected lawmakers. We should all avoid negatives, which are incompatible with their attitude, their actions, their commitments and verbs, the adjective adjective and responsibility of the MP. Clearly, there is a need for a political ethics committee to evaluate them and set rules. I hope we can make it happen soon, this semester. We all need to work together on this. We all have to do our jobs better and act more responsible. It is necessary to plan and reflect on the future of our country and democracy and the lives of our children beyond daily political concerns. Dear MPs, democracy is the work of a struggle, the triumph of mind, science and freedom. How this will be taken further, can be transformed into a mature and well-functioning system with common intelligence, dialogue, and democratic competition. Democracy offers the proper grounds and opportunities to speak and understand each other. It is clear that social problems will be continuous, while science and reason provide methods for solving this, democracy is setting up grounds for that. We can solve our problems by turning speech and dialogue into a culture without destroying the floor of discussion and dialogue. Of course, the best ground for this is the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the representation center of the national will and the solution to problems, where all segments have hopes and turn their eyes away. It is our responsibility not to destroy this floor, but to preserve the efficiency and function of this place. Honourable MPs celebrate the 92nd anniversary of the opening of our Parliament, while we also have the honor of being a country that presents the anniversary of the opening of the Assembly as a holiday for the children. We want our children to grow up with the ideals of our nation, dreaming of success, quality, and free Turkey, and we want them to grow up with the spirit of national sovereignty, to build more democratic, free tomorrows. We have to leave them a more democratic country. Our children don't deserve a democracy that fights rule, that causes problems all the time. Dear MPs, one of the most important relics we leave to our children is the new constitution and a free Turkey. The new constitution is our debt to our nation and our children. Today the world and Turkey have changed, and our conditions and democratic standards are changing, and they have to change. The new constitution is a new page for us, a new Turkey. The new constitution is a confrontation with our past and at the same time our future, an accounting for our mistakes, our shortcomings, a legitimate basis, an effort to produce a text of a social contract in the Parliament climate. Representatives of the nation will build a democratic constitution on behalf of the nation. The political institution must establish a constitution in dialogue with NGOs and social actors. We need to be aware that if we can't make a new constitution, we're going to lose a lot. At the coming point, I believe that we will have a more modern constitution, which is based on the will and the great expectation of our society in this direction, that will protect, improve, and raise the standard of our democracy. On the 92nd anniversary of the opening of our parliament, I honor and praise the Leader of our national struggle and our first Parliament Speaker, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and the heroic MPs of our First Assembly, and all the MPs who have served under this roof today, all the veterans and martyrs of our national struggle, all of our parliamentarians who have been committed to eternity. I'm celebrating National Sovereignty and Children's Day for our nation and our children. [[Applause]] Members of parliament, it was agreed that the political party groups represented in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should be promised to the leaders of the group and the heads of political parties, whose group was not present and members of parliament, for ten minutes. Now, I read the demands in order: Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Chairman of the Justice and Development Party and Parliament Group, Chairman of the Republican People's Party and Parliamentary Group, Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, Chairman of the National Movement Party and Chairman of the Parliament Group. The first statement is for Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, chairman of the Justice and Development Party and Chairman of Parliament Group. [[AC PARTY and the Council of Ministers applaud standing by]] Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2012-04-23sit01spe0002par0035	Mr. President, Mr. President, I salute your delegation, celebrating the 92nd anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Turkey's National Sovereignty and Children's Day. The first chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Gazi Mustafa Kemal. I remember once again with mercy and gratitude all the MPs in the first legislature to move and run our Liberation War. From April 23, 1920 to today, I give thanks to all parliamentarians who have worked hard for Turkey's sovereignty, future and freedom, sweated, and served for the nation under this roof, on behalf of my country, my nation. On this meaningful day, in the historic building of the nation, the first speech made at the House's first session was a beautiful memory, and as a reminder, the Honorable President has just expressed it to you, and I will express it to you. At the first session of 23 April 1920, Mr. Sinop Mebusu, the first interim President of this Grand National Assembly, stated in his first session: "Our free and independent nation, which has been determined to live fully independent, has strongly and firmly rejected slavery, and has immediately assembled its representatives, the Council of Ministers. With the help of Allah, this great Assembly declares its contract within and out of our nation itself within and within full independence, and I open the Grand National Assembly as the Interim President. Yes, on April 23, 1920, it has been announced to the world as well as to Turkey that the Grand National Assembly has been opened in Ankara, and since then the Turkish Grand National Assembly has been the basis of the full independence of this country and this nation. The First Assembly, just as it is today, has gathered all of Turkey's colors, all of its textures, all of its differences under one soul, one ideal, one roof. A common thrill was created in the first legislature, regardless of its language, ethnic origin, or sect, for each individual living, sustaining, breathing and breathing on this land. I must point out that the first Assembly, which led and ruled our Battle of Salvation, which led our War of Salvation to victory, has no doubt taken its success from its structure, which embraces everyone around the same excitement. The First Assembly is a Parliament that has shown the establishment of the Republic of Turkey and its philosophy beyond debate. The power to build our Republic, to declare our existence to the world, to raise that republic, that is the spirit and excitement of the First Assembly. In the 90-year period, the will of parliament has been eliminated from time to time, the national will has been cut down, and from time to time the dominant and political powers have been sought to be oppressed. However, I must express with great pleasure that today, just as on April 23, 1920, this great Parliament has become the most powerful defense of the will of the nation, of democracy. This Parliament is a council facing coups, questioning coups, now calculating coups. (AC PARTY) This Parliament will face any attack against its will, its operation, its spirit, and the nation will knowingly protect its will and protect its honor. This Parliament, which has taken its power from the nation, is as powerful as our nation, is the guarantee of our full future and our full future today, as it was ninety-two years ago, along with its rulers and judges. I would like to stress in particular that in Ankara, in the historic building in Ulus, on April 23, 1920, the Grand National Assembly was gathered on the occupation of the centre where the government and Assembly of the period worked. The Grand National Assembly is responsible for the sovereignty of the country and the nation. Any initiative and intervention towards parliament would undoubtedly mean an initiative and intervention towards the sovereignty of this country. Any attempt to ignore the Grand National Assembly of Turkey would mean that our future will be resolved by the target of our future. As those who invade Istanbul and other cities of Turkey received the answer from the Grand National Assembly and from our beloved nation, those who refer to national will and democratic regimes will, sooner or later, receive the answer needed from Parliament, nation and judiciary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In our time, we have not tolerated or tolerated any interference or intervention against this Parliament. I believe that those who come after us, our children and our young men, will not be able to bring about the size of the House, nor will they allow the intervention of the House, as unfortunate as it had been in the past. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, are also the guarantee of our determination and determination to live together as a nation. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a representative of 75 million people living within the borders of the Republic of Turkey, not a representative of a belief or sect, but of an ethnicity. The landscape and philosophy presented in the first legislature is very clear. Each member of this country is an undisputed first-class citizen of this country, along with all kinds of differences. Basically, this is the understanding that will guarantee our future as well as our present. Inflammation or discrimination among the communities that have lived in the same land for centuries means enhancing the spirit of parliament as well as the brotherhood and sensitivity of the nation. We view any terrorist activity against our country and our nation, any attempt at persecution against our unity and brotherhood as an attack on our will, at any cost. However, among members of the nation, we also strongly reject different treatments between regions and cities. Those who want to plant seeds of hypocrisy on this land must know that their seed will never sprout, nor return. Those who shake hands with those who have an account on this land will never achieve their dirty deeds. By solving our problems, by providing for our needs, by glorifying our brotherhood, we will continue to walk together into the future. We will continue to strengthen democratic politics as the basis for solutions to all kinds of problems, to develop the culture of dialogue and reconciliation. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, have a friendly and friendly approach to all the countries of the world, to all its nations. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, like this great nation, is a friend to its friend and a greatness to its enemy. Our friend and our enemy should know very well that we have nothing but peace, peace, stability, solidarity, and sharing, especially in our neighborhood and in the world. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Our foreign policy, of course, is built on the basis of peace. It is also clear that we cannot remain silent and unresponsive to any government that persecutes their own people, means our brothers, oppresses our people, restricts freedoms. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] While the Republic of Turkey and Turkey's Grand National Assembly protect their national interests with the highest precision, it puts conscientious, human and universal values above any political account. Everyone should know that we have no eyes on the land of any country, that we will not interfere in the internal affairs of any country. Again, in the name of peace, in the name of conscience and human values, it must be known that we will not be silent about the attacks and persecutions of the brothers and the peoples, nor will we remain unresponsive, in the same way. In the last nine and a half years, we're going to continue to raise and magnify our country by hand, where we've grown about three times the record rate of growth, where we've concentrated investments in every area. With its strong economy, its active and peaceful foreign policy, our beloved nation of brotherhood, peace, stability and security, our moon-star flag, the symbol of Turkey, will continue to fluctuate with honor, with honor, with glory and honor. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I want to finish by stressing that we are determined to entrust our children with a much brighter future, that we are full of hope in the pursuit of that goal. I remember all our heroes, martyrs and veterans, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal, all our politicians who served in this House with mercy and gratitude. All of our children, all of the world's children, celebrate National Sovereignty and Children's Day, salute your grand delegation, thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-23sit01spe0003par0058	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. In turn, it belongs to Mr Kemal Kilicdaroğlu, chairman of the Republican People's Party and Parliamentary Group. [[Standing ovations from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Kilicdaroglu.
tbmm-2012-04-23sit01spe0004par0062	Mr. President, Mr. President, I salute you on behalf of myself and the Republican People's Party Group as I begin. The 92nd anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is my heartfelt celebration of this great national holiday. On the streets, in the squares, at the head of radio and television, I give my deepest regards to our people who share this honor with their Parliament. I honor and cherish all members of the First Assembly, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and stand before the memory of those who serve the nation under this roof. This Parliament, which we are all proud to be a member of, is the rule of the nation. This Parliament is a parliament that has built itself, not by the will of the nation, but by the will of the nation. In other words, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has emerged as a embodiment of the people's will. This Parliament is the Parliament that determines the boundaries of our homeland. It's a winning Congress that ended the invasion of the country and fought the war on independence. This Parliament is the Parliament that transforms differences with its ability to represent itself into a national synth. Without a doubt, this House is a revolutionary Assembly. So it's the Parliament that decides the shape and direction of the state, making and implementing the revolutions that the orientation requires one after another. The Republic revolution, in the final analysis, is the work of this House. I'd like to point out that despite the history of all other revolutions in the early 20th century, the revolution of the Republic of Turkey continues to make history. (HPP applause) The main reason for this is that the Parliament remains in charge of its principles. The nature of revolutions is that some suffering from time to time in practice does not change that fact. Change and transformation always have a cost. Granted, the Republic of Turkey has managed to keep that cost at a minimum. This detail of our recent history must be carefully noted and evaluated. Those who see history as an area of political hostility should know that there has never been a political feud between the republic and this nation, and there will never be again. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Do we have a collective contract? The answer is clear to us: Yes, we have a community contract. That contract, valued lawmakers, is written on the wall before you: the government is a unconditional nation. This is our community contract. [[A round of applause from CHP and the Council of Ministers]] Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are the nation of government. Let's take his thesis as a philosophical concept, or as a political manifesto, this thesis has given humanity one of its greatest mental leaps. It's such a productive concept that all the achievements of modern civilization are born or produced from this concept. All concepts and institutions, such as modern freedoms, human rights, rule of law, rationalism and democracy, owe the existence of modern civilization to the manifesto of these two words. It's also a source of objective and realistic legitimacy that all governments and regimes that are not based on national sovereignty have been thrown into a devastating crisis of legitimacy. From our point of view, it is a nation of authority. The concept is ontological. So that it is impossible to recognize and define modern Turkey, its achievements, its level of design, and its future design, independent of the sovereignty of the nation. At the beginning of the road, it is the nation's government. The cry came out as a national objection to the occupation as well as a collective will to resist the invaders. Its cry is the motto of faith in both victory and salvation, as well as the signal of which the great revolution, modern Turkey, will be formed on the basis of victory. This is the basic principle that formats the founding will. If the founders of the Republic of Turkey have tried democracy right after the founding, if they have been ahead of the Continental Europe to recognise some rights and freedoms, if they have met the young republic with multi-party democracy at the age of twenty-six and without force, the main reason is the genuine belief in the rule of the nation. Dear lawmakers, the most fundamental thing that separates the republican revolution from the other revolutions, may I stress, is that the will of the people, despite everything, has been looked after. Those who judge a number of practices that have emerged under these very special circumstances in today's comfort should return and look at other revolutions in the world. The public revolution of the kingdom costs Europe two world wars. The cost of the socialist revolution to the Soviet people is over 20 million people. We can replicate the samples. It's one thing for history to be subject to an analytical criticism -- which historians already do -- is another thing for a biased interpretation of history. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are a nation of authority. The concept of the government does not represent a static state, it is an open-ended concept. Giving the kingdom to the nation is a problem we face in every era. To what extent is sovereignty in the hands of the nation? It's a question we'll be dealing with all the time, and anyone who runs this country will have to deal with it. Just as we judge those before us, the rest of us will judge us because of the same question and problem. We don't think it's strange, and we think it's the dynamic that will lead us to modern civilization. We must remember that even if you judge the past, a healthy trial is directed toward the future. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have another problem under the roof of this House that we must carefully underline. The fact that lawmakers elected by the will of the people are still under arrest, that they can't do the legislature is a disgrace to democracy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Before I finish, I'd like to emphasize another topic that I've been referring to in the past April 23rd. April 23rd is the history of our nation's faith in the parliamentary system. April 23rd is the symbol of the nation's courage and stubbornness to rule with a Parliament. It is this Parliament that runs the War of Salvation and establishes the republic. Since the first Assembly established in Osmanlı, there have been those who have been disturbed by the voice of this Assembly. We need to underline a point that those who want to lower the voice of this House, of the living, must know that those who want to replace it with the will to execute it. This Parliament has not given in to the occupations or the occupations of these people, nor has it ever regained its authority in the end. The history of the democratisation of the Republic of Turkey is the date of defence and expansion of the powers of this Parliament. Even today, those who covet the powers of this great House should never forget this matter. Congressmans, April 23rd is also a time when the rule of law is represented. Those who gave the War of Salvation, the people who founded this republic, even under those difficult conditions, have shown the will to rule their battles in law. The Battle of Salvation was carried out under the laws of this House. Even when the founders of the Republic had almost unlimited power, they did not avoid the constraints that this Assembly brought to power. That understanding, the separation of powers... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... which is the essentials of modern democracy. The constraint of power with parliament with full and independent justice is the inevitable result of the republic's natural evolution and the understanding of democracy today. April 23rd is the day when we claim these values to be democratic ideals. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, no matter what we say, our people know your values with great wisdom. I'm proud to say that in any period of time, no matter who has caused any deviations, the republic's revolution has always walked in the right direction and will continue to walk. Of course, Turkey's fundamental orientation is correct and, of course, Turkey's present will be different from yesterday and tomorrow from today, and, of course, the Republic of Turkey will always have its share. With that confidence, I congratulate you once again, all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-23sit01spe0005par0086	Thank you, Mr. Kilicdaroglu. In turn, it belongs to Mr. State Gardeny, chairman of the National Movement Party and Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Gardenie.
tbmm-2012-04-23sit01spe0006par0090	Mr. President, we are proud to be a member of the United States, celebrating the 92nd anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in which we are honored and honored to be a member. At the very beginning of my speech, I salute you with love and respect on behalf of our fellow citizens, our future security, our beloved children, my own and party group. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which opened on Friday with a deep spiritual sense of dedication accompanied by prayers, sacrifices, the Koran and the Sheriff of Steam, is the most important step and work of the Turkish nation in the 20th century. Sinop Mebusu, who led the Parliament's first meeting as the oldest member, and who made the opening speech, has strongly and firmly rejected Turkish nation's bondage, calling his deputies in Ankara, declaring that he will lead his own destiny. The aggressive tendencies of colonial forces, ruthless acts, bloody attacks, murders, and uncompromising intentions of mankind have been regressed against the majesty and majesty of the Grand National Assembly and has had to go as it came. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, above all, is the name and definition of commitment to independence, the reaction to captivity, and the unconditional loyalty to the sovereignty of the nation. A confirmation and assurance that the national entity is a sacred one, unbreakable and untamable value, has been announced to the jihan with the success and guarantee of our blessed House under its roof. Sacrifice has risen to the top here, and the love of country and nation has sparked the spark of freedom from here. In the middle of Asia Minor, the challenge of the hilalin jihan under the difficult conditions of that period, the Turkish nation's claim to life and property, no doubt with the superior ability and determination of the Grand National Assembly to fight. We know and believe that our nation's mood, its high virtues, its temperament and character are among the main factors in the nature of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On April 23, 1920, Ankara's barren and swamp plateau was announced that a new hope, a new beginning, and a new rise would not be inhabited by imperialism on its homeland. When the Grand National Assembly ruled the front lines on one side, it determined the foundations of independent and honorable life, and did what it needed to do. In this House, all the desires and expectations of the future of the national conscience have come together, and our republic has blossomed and flourished in this environment. It's almost impossible to coincide with such democratic establishment structures under the same circumstances as the one and only source of power and compass for democracy, both fighting and not leaving the line of legitimacy at the same time. In the darkest days, the national faith, which was about to be shaken and weakened, was brought to life by faith and argument here, and ultimately by the nation in the stone building in Ulus, the dawn of victory was lifted in İzmir. Until the oppressors, traitors, collaborators and invaders are driven out of our country, the Grand National Assembly has maintained its alertness and has shielded its bosom against those who haunt our saints. In a humble, semi-dark, narrow building, and in the hall, the greatest disaster in history that has taken our nation to its destination, the persecution, oppression, oppression, oppression, captivity, and inferiority have been neutralized by a brilliant countermeasure. At times, the edges are a lamp of chandeliers, and at times, a new page of honor to the history of the Turkish nation during heated and tense talks that run through the morning under candlelight, but its results have been opened in the nation's work of history as large as the nation's. For this reason, the Grand National Assembly has made the Turkish nation victorious in 1923, which was defeated, beaten and beaten in 1918, and has shown that there can be no involvement in its future. The Grand National Assembly has not brought down the trust of Malazgirt, has not dishonored our thousands of years of dignity and dignity, has demonstrated that the Turkish nation does not have a home to go to, to take refuge or to give up, either with its wisdom or with its passion. History will show this glorious and admirable gift of the Veteran Assembly at every turn, and the national hearts, under every circumstance, will remember it as a blessing. With that dignity, the secret and meaning of this national value that we have, and in every sense, and to honor it with sincerity, are among the most fundamental duties of all of us, as well as a national duty. As representatives of the sole and absolute Turkish nation of the kingdom, we must be aware of our responsibilities and move forward without weariness or injury to the national task we are taking on. Those who misinterpret nation's sovereignty by misinterpreting their own ambitions and goals, who resist to take their share of yesterday's meaning and importance, who speak for global plans and scenarios, must learn from the glorious memories of our Parliament. Those who insist on the chaos and chaos of neighbouring geography as a basis and support for the executive officers of the colonialism who were trying to liquidate our country yesterday, and those who are willing and dishonest to accept the scenarios of division of the West into the Muslim realm. (MHP) To those who can't beat the Turkish nation on the front lines, to those who can't break its union through secret agreements and to those who can't destroy whatever they've done in this geography today, to give in and surrender to those who can, in the short term, guarantee the power of their battles, and will never be able to escape the long term. Every concession given to those who want to break our bonds of brotherhood, every submission to the nation's sovereignty, every leniency that dares to distort our history, will eventually lead to destruction and resolution, which will never be tolerated by us, and will never be tolerated by us. Honourable lawmakers are easy to do, and they have a short life span, and what is difficult and difficult is to stick to the truth, to the truth, to the truth, to the truth, to the path of national principles and beliefs. Our nation had shown that it had refused guardianship, guardianship, and all kinds of constraints, ninety-two years ago, and pushed away the easy, simple, and free happiness; and it had mobilized its blood, its life, its labor, and its means to live independently. In doing so, his chosen representatives gathered their forces in this nest of democracy, sending them into the darkness of history, never to be restored. The Turkish nation decided in democracy 902 years ago that its will precedes everything... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and he cried out that he was on it, and it was clear that he was off-limits in every direction and preference other than that. For this reason, revolutionary initiatives, coup ideas, or political practices that will cloud the meaning of democracy, would refer to the savings and gains of our Veteran Assembly, respect, insufferability, and denial. Even in the extraordinary conditions of the past, Turkey will not be considered innocent of the spirit of the Grand National Assembly, its powers, and its actions to remove its existence. To go back, to be turned into a puzzle board, to be corroded by civil and military force would be a violation of the trust of our great nation at first. It's a great deal of importance to radicalize democracy as it is, to ensure its depth. For the first time, a new civil-quality constitutional process is important, and it is necessary for us to conclude. The Constitutional Compromise Commission, which runs on the decisive, sincere and zealous efforts of the Honorable Chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, must achieve its goal, regardless of the voting rates of the parties represented. The Turkish nation must be met by the 90th anniversary of the Grand National Assembly, which we will celebrate next year in the new constitution it deserves, and now the discussions around it must be concluded with compromise and maturity. The next historic opportunity should not be sacrificed to personal and ideological disputes, nor should political ambitions stand in the way of established principles. As a party, we are determined to put our hands on the positive process and the draft of a new constitution, and we are very determined to do so. Dear MPs, our nation needs the day to remain its own, and the day to live, hope, change, and move forward. We, a large family who speak the same language on this geography, who live by the same traditions and beliefs, and have common interests, and in these interests, have been standing dynamic, upright for a thousand years, and we will continue to be. In this scope, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the guarantee and assurance of our nation's full co-existence, the future and final phase of a thousand years of brotherhood. For those of you who are thinking of dividing and dissolving the holy spirit of the House, I remind you that the miscalculation will return from the great nation's strength here. Our nation's conscience will not allow division. The so-called identity seekers will not find the environment and the ground they seek. We will overcome all our problems, not by fighting, not by peace, not by conflict, not by reconciliation, not by resentment, not by embrace, not by trial, but by reunion, and we will overcome every aspect, as we did yesterday; this is my faith and hope. The date of April 23rd, when our nation's sovereignty is directly in its hands, is also celebrated as a holiday for our beloved children. I hereby celebrate the holiday of all our children. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish that the 92nd anniversary of April 23, 1920, when sovereignty began to be used by our beloved nation, mediate a new righteousness. It is with mercy and gratitude that I remember all the founding heroes, especially Gazi Mustafa Ataturk, who entrusted us with the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and our noble martyrs who willingly put their lives on the line for the welfare of our country. May Allah bless them all, and let their graves be filled with light. As I end my speech, I salute our holy nation and your honorable delegation, watching us on their screens.
tbmm-2012-04-23sit01spe0007par0113	[[Standing ovations from MHP rows, applause from the AK PARTY rows]] Thank you, Mr. Gardenie. Members of parliament, the 92nd anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the celebration of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, and talks have been completed to determine the significance and meaning of the day. On Tuesday (April 24, 2012), it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (April 24, 2012), to discuss other tasks from commissions, with draft and proposals, according to verbal question motions. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
