tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 66th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda belongs to the Silver House MP Feramuz Üstümün, who wanted to address the 94th anniversary of the release of the province of Silverhouse from enemy occupation. Here you go, Your Honor.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0002par0014	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have been promised off the agenda because of the 94th anniversary of the liberation of our Silver House province from enemy occupation. I hereby salute your high council. We're excited and excited this year, as it is every year, to celebrate the anniversary of the liberation of our Silver House province from enemy occupation. I ask the grace of Almighty God, who has sacrificed their lives without hesitation, so that we may live as a noble nation in this heavenly land, honor, pride, and freedom. When he was married for a day, he was an important example of how important his homeland was by the will of our profession, who left everything behind and ran to the front to drink his testimony. As it is known, the February 14th of Torul is the day of the liberation of our district, the 15th of February of Silverhane, and the enemy invasion of our Kelkit district on February 17th. We will continue to show respect and importance for this country for those who pay the price of their lives and blood, by transforming it into a better, more habitable place in every field, without giving the enemy a pass. Mr. President, in our province, which has been left alone with its problems for years, forgotten in a way, praise be to our Prime Minister, under the leadership of our EC PARTI governments, there have been all major breakthroughs in the development of our province, and most importantly, I think our people have been hopeful that a lot of the work that needs to be done can be done by seeing what's being done. As long as our people have this faith and trust, as in every corner of our country, investments will rise in our Silver House province, as well as in its geographical and cultural properties. I think we'll have the honor of fulfilling our responsibilities, even a little bit, against the fact that we've taken these steps to make our province a more habitable city, and so have we, without blinking an eye to the enemy's bosom. With this feeling and thought, Silverhane celebrates the 94th anniversary of the liberation of our provinces and provinces from enemy occupation, and remembers all our martyrs and veterans, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal, who sacrificed his life and blood for this land, with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0003par0021	Thank you, Your Honor. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan, who wants to talk about legislative issues. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0004par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to legislature issues, and I salute you. We've done the law-making symposium in parliament, and we've completed the work on developing the administrative capacity of the National Assembly. Troubles are still going on. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey does not meet its requirements, even though the Court of Presidents, the General Secretary-General and the ruling party participate in these studies. Some of these are the issues of predicting the problems of legislation in the General Assembly, boosting the activities of the secondary commissions, establishing co-direction for the Civil Charter, planning the commission's agenda in advance, establishing opinions, determining the procedures and foundations of institutions and institutions, and being able to be used by regulatory analysis. The AKP government's drafts and law proposals made by AKP lawmakers are indeed causing the Parliament's tensions and tensions. Look, the commission doesn't know when the invitation to the power code was signed. Is it a signature for the president when he's not in Ankara? If that's the case, it's legally a crime. If the D.A. knew, they'd have an investigation. Mr. Speaker has witnessed this as Deputy Prime Minister. According to this, dozens of decrees have been made concerning hundreds of thousands of public officials. Now you're trying to make a law to fix it. Can you imagine if that makes sense? The other thing is that there's been a change in the Civil Code. You sit and work for a whole year, you remove the text that you have agreed to, and now I have brought it, and you will have to accept it. Does what happened here the other day look like the physical beating of two party MPs over ten minutes to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? This is the seat of the great Ataturk. Does it look good on him? The other thing is, they don't even know that the issues that the commissions are sending are the real deal. That's exactly what I'm reading in the report of a commissioner's speech: that we, as a commission, have not discussed a lot of things that we should have discussed so far. We haven't discussed this sort of thing, but it's always been in our report card, or rather, in our work portfolio. So we wanted to bring it all in, get it over with, get it off our agenda, leave it on the agenda. That's why we brought these. But as far as I'm concerned, some of them have become castrates, but since this has become a bitch, we haven't received any writing, either, so something that's become a bitch is being brought to the commissioner's office as a matter of agenda. Is there anything to defend that, dear friends? They wanted such a bill as a commission. We removed them from the main commission, and there was no sign of them. The administration of the main commission is unaware of the world. So this is where the tribulations come from. Now, the offer you brought this week with the MIT Law. I don't know if the congressman who made the offer was a security expert. It's a waste of time. Did the Undersecretary of MIT come and go on your orders or not? You used to claim the immunity of lawmakers as AKP officials, as AKP officials, as members of the AKP, that you had the authority to stand together. Now, you're trying to get the officer immunity to save the Prime Minister. You're bringing in the Czech Bill. You say economic punishment for economic crime, but there are 100,000 convictions on the way. You say, 120,000 are on the way. You're afraid that 250,000 people will go to prison. But it turns out that you're going to make every thought a law, and then if there's any trouble, you're going to say there's no need for the law. Unfortunately, at this time, the chain of law is under orders and command. What's the end of this? A civilian is a dictator. If only you'd brought that law as a basic law so you wouldn't have trouble with the negotiations, you wouldn't have a problem. Thank you, Mr. President, with all due respect.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0005par0037	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Dilek Akagün Yilmaz (Second MP) who wants to talk about the privatisation of the Butler Sugar Factory and its problems. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0006par0042	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I, too, am celebrating the day of the liberation of the State of Silver House before I begin my words. I'd like to tell you about an epic Battle of Salvation to a Kuvasimilli. The footmen displayed an honorable resistance to the Greek occupation, fighting for salvation on the western front. After the Great Attack, the Greek Commander-in-Chief Trikopis was captured at Uçaş and handed over to Mustafa Kemal. Our people fought hard against the imperialist occupation and won a war called almost impossible. However, Nuri Sugar and her friends, one of the leaders of Kavayimilliye, who had fought a life in poverty in the country's debt of Ottomans, have achieved one more impossible thing and have built the first sugar factory with the help of servants alone. Date 17 December 1926: The country's first sugar factory was founded with private capital without any state support, a symbol of post-Burban solidarity. "We had medals in every field, and you won us the first economic medal; I poured Greece into the sea, you declare economic war." He spoke his words, and it set an example throughout the country. The Butler Nuri Sugar Factory was a school for all the sugar factories that were opened later. In 1931, he was stateized, but no portion was paid to the banelings. I mean, the Butler Sugar Factory is for banelings, not the government. The footman Nuri Sugar Factory has also been a center of attraction for business opportunities and social life, as the servant beet peasant, his tradesman, has contributed greatly to the development of animalism. The factory was built on a large area, where modern agriculture and livestock took place, where the first cinema was opened. The Sugar Factory Complex has become a symbol of modern Turkey. Like the Nuri Sugar Factory, which is so important and precious to us, I'm sure other factories must have a story. Congressmans, the sugar factories with the honor, history, and future of this country are unfortunately being tried to destroy today by selling extortion auctions. First, the IMF and European Union imposed quotas in beets, beet planting and sugar production limited. All support for the beet maker has been removed. Since the 2000s, there have been no technological renovations for sugar factories, not even staff. In the countries of the European Union at 2%, the quotas for carcinogens, produced by GMO, have been raised to 15 per cent in our country. The sugar beets have almost accounted for the purchase prices. The price of diesel, fertilizer, and other inputs has increased, and the price of beets has been taken away from the peasant beets for not meeting these entries. After all these negative practices, the factory has been damaged. The privatisation work has been launched. Whereas the claim that the sugar mills have been damaged is a big lie. Even at the footman's Candy Factory, there has been no technological investments in the last 15 years, and although it has a capacity of 190,000 tons of beets, in 2011, 1.5 trillion liras were profited, I say with the old Turkish lira. If the servant Nuri Sugar Factory and other sugar factories are privatised -- as seen by the Privatisation Administration on November 29, 2011 as a result of the tender, it is clear that other sugar factories will be sold at any cost, as well as under the property value of Elbia, Malatya, Erzincan, Elazığ, Kırşehir, Kastamonu, Turhal, Yozgat, Corrum and Wednesday. According to the tender requirement, these factories are required to produce for up to five years. And then what? Then what? The large majority of sugar factories will be shut down on the grounds that it is not profitable, and their very valuable land will be built with multi-story buildings, and sugar will not be produced. As a result, our country will be an importer of sugar, not sugar. Because the beet peasant cannot plant beets, he will emigrate to the city, and unemployment will increase. Because there's no beets and beets that are used as animal food, livestock will be regressed. That city's mover, his trade will collapse. So sugar is a strategic product around the world, but it's a product that contributes a lot to the country's economy, so its destruction will be huge. That's why I'm calling on all my ruling deputy friends and AKP. Let's take care of our sugar factories, please don't destroy our sugar factories. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0007par0054	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Congressmans, I'm going to give my word to at least ten MPs over 60. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0008par0059	Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, our Torul, our Silverhouse, and Kelkit, were rescued from the occupation of Armenians and Russians ninety-four years ago by our ancestors. In recent years, development has begun, especially economic, social, health and transportation. Ninety-four years ago, those who invaded our lands, caused massacres -- as an example -- are still talking about the massacres that flowed from the Maruflu mosque in Zigana, my own village, to the mosque of Kersısı -- the communities that are doing this today -- primarily the French Parliament -- are voting for some of the so-called plans in the world parliaments. We condemn the history of ourselves and the parliaments, and we thank our Prime Minister and Government for the salvation of our ancestors who saved our land in the last few years. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0007par0061	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0009par0064	Thank you, Mr. President. I congratulate my fellow citizens of the Silver House on the 94th anniversary of the liberation of our neighboring province from enemy occupation. Also in the press today -- as well as in the press -- Mr Faruk Çelik, Minister of Labor and Social Security, stated that 10,758 employees, who have been employed under contract with 187,280 employees who have been employed 4/B, have been assigned to the staff of 1,98,038 people. This has been a good development for those who work on thorns. Is it also considered by contract for skilled teachers who work for the public education departments? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0010par0068	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0011par0071	Mr. President, terrorists at the foot of Mount Ilgaz attacked the convoy of Prime Ministerates and AKP officials returning to Ankara after the Kastamonon rally before the 2011 elections with grenades and long-barreled weapons. Police Officer Recep Şahin was killed in this attack. Are the members of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and the People's Party (PKK) who have been kidnapped from the judiciary in their actions and inactions, including this attack, which is clearly intended to win the AKP (AKP)'s votes before the election? Is the MIT Act, which violates the law in order to conceal its cooperation and ensure new massacres? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0012par0075	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0013par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. I celebrate the 94th anniversary of our Silver House province's liberation from the Russian occupation. I hereby bless the martyrs who gave their lives to save our country from enemy invasion. As the children of a great nation, I would like to stress that this country is meant to be better aware of what sacrifices this country is founded on. The Silver House is still an immigration province. To be content with what is done means to be regressed. In order for our silver house to become a productive, productive, and prosperous province, we must not be content with what is present. On this occasion, investments and projects must be brought into action so that the Silver Houses do not migrate from the Silver House. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0014par0082	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0015par0085	Mr. President, thank you. While the servant Candy Factory has been brought up, I would like to point out that Burdur Sugar Factory, which was built in 1955, is the carotid artery of Burdur. We're definitely against privatisation. This year, it has yielded an income of 130 million. Burdur is everything. If we put all of what the AKP government has done in the last decade in a scale, the privatisation of the Burdur Sugar Factory will wipe out all of what has been done. For him, we are strongly opposed to the privatisation of the Burdur Sugar Factory, which I warn the government once again. In the sale of E portfolios, Burdur Candy Factory Servants, Afyon, Alpullu and Susurlik want to be sold, to be privatized. I'd like to rephrase from this stand that we are against this issue in a sense, as all Burdurians. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0016par0088	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0017par0091	Mr. President, the public-owned dentists aren't given enough staff, and they're not getting their staff's reward. We would like our government to do its best and be put into the staff of expert dentists. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0016par0093	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Önal...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0018par0096	Mr. President, thank you. 15 terrorists were taken over and two of our security guards were killed in a shootout with PKK terrorists in Şırnak Uludere on Monday (February 13, 2012). One of our security guards, Petty Officer Murat Bayram and Special Sergeant Ibrahim Kurt, were buried yesterday. During the burial of İbrahim Kurt (Abraham Kurt) in Daziçi district of Osmaniye Province yesterday, our beloved nation had once again seen the whole public that it was united to protect this land, this holy land. On this occasion, we honor and honor all our saints and martyrs, and bow before the memory of the saints, God rest their souls. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0019par0099	Thank you, Mr. Önal. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0020par0102	Mr. President, the Eskişehir Sugar Factory is also part of privatisation and is scheduled to be privatised this year. As in previous privatisations, I think it would be helpful for the Eskişehir Sugar Factory to find a solution to an allocation agreement with the Beets Manufacturers Cooperative to prevent a result from resetting production. Because these privatisations are already being done by taking out loans from the state, and I would like to point out that I, along with the manufacturers, would like to consider a solution in cooperation. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0019par0104	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0021par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, I attended the funeral of İbrahim Kurt, one of two of our security guards who died at Bestler Dereler, Şırnak Province, two days ago. We have sent him to this high place with great sadness, along with all our fellow citizens from Daziçi and Osmaniye. But I'm going to have to pass on some of the issues that have been expressed to us there. He asked for two things, the family of Abraham Kurt (Ibrahim Kurt) the martyr, the family of İbrahim Kurt (Abraham): One of whom was paid 60 thousand liras in compensation for the martyrs, and one of whom was killed by mistake in smuggling, to be asked why they were given 123,000 lira. I'm asking for the record. The other, the terrorist organization, which caused our martyrs to become martyrs, asked us to answer to their mountain extensions and other extensions. I wanted to deliver these messages. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0022par0113	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Thank you, lawmakers. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Water Pollution Control Rule No. 31,12,2004, there are no necessary infrastructure studies under the deadlines given to the municipalities. In order to determine the deficiencies of municipalities' infrastructure and urination, solid waste storage and processing facilities, the financial, legal and administrative problems and ways to resolve them, the Constitution is 98. And 104th of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we would like to submit a parliamentary investigation. In our country, it has been determined that 67% of the current 3,225 municipalities need drinking water, 81% need sewage facilities, 92 percent need memorial facilities, 93% need solid waste storage facilities, 75% need technical staff, 68% need equipment. The State Department of Environment and Urbanism's Passage 4 of Environmental Law No. 2872. Article: "It is already in operation with municipalities that have not established the waste disposal plant and domestically qualified to clean up the waste disposal plant, while organised industrial areas, other industrial institutions and settlements must submit plans for the establishment of these facilities to the Ministry within a year of the establishment of these facilities, and take them into operation during the stated times below. The processing deadlines are 3 years in more than 100,000 municipalities, between 100,000 and 50,000, 7 years in between 50,000 and 10,000, 10 years in between 10,000 and 10,000, 10 years in industrial facilities that are left out of them with organised industrial areas and every other facility that produces waste. It is not required to prepare a business term plan for the currently under construction waste treatment and solid waste disposal facilities. The duration of the processing of the facility cannot exceed the duration of the processing of the operation specified in this clause. The municipalities, organised industrial regions, other industrial institutions, and settlements must apply to the Ministry within three months of the publication of this law in order to benefit from this decree. If the institutions and institutions, which are obliged to build waste infrastructure systems and solid waste disposal facilities with the 8th article of the Law, fail to meet their obligations during the period specified in this clause, 50,000 Turkish liras will be fined by 30,000 Turkish liras, 50,000 Turkish liras, 20,000 Turkish liras, 10,000 or 10,000 Turkish liras, 10,000 Turkish liras, 100,000 Turkish liras, 100,000 Turkish Lira in organised industrial areas, and every facility that produces more than 100,000 Turkish liras and waste." It's called. However, although City Law 5393 was adopted on 03,07,2005, the budget of municipalities could not be the solution to the problems of infrastructure, decontamination, solid waste storage and processing. Therefore, new regulations must be made in the City Insurance Law. The budget set aside for 2008 to complete the infrastructure of 3225 municipalities in our country in order to project, start, and complete the following transactions by the government has been estimated to reduce them to 1/3 compared to 2007. For 2008, the budget for protecting Lake-water and Akarsu basins of the Ministry of Public Works and Housing may only cover the infrastructure of three or four medium-sized municipalities. An average of $6 billion is needed to meet municipal services mentioned above, given that 97% of our municipalities lack infrastructure. These services are not likely to be met with $40,000,000 to be transferred to the County Bank for 2008. For these reasons, the Constitution of the 98th Amendment is to "recognise and recommend solutions to the infrastructure of the municipalities and the decontamination of the soil, the lack of solid waste storage and processing facilities, and the failures to address these inadequacies." And 104th of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter. And 105. A parliamentary investigation must be opened according to the clauses. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] [[Inconceived]] 13) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Manisa]] [[Kastamon]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the opening of Parliamental Research on Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th Civil Charter to investigate the Problems and Solution Proposals of the Cotton Product, which are strategical, and to determine measures to be taken, including legal arrangements to be made for this. On Earth, cotton planting is more common on the Asian continent. The continents that follow this are America and Africa, respectively. About 26% of the world's 25 million tons of cotton is produced by China. The world's second cotton-producing country is the United States. The US share of world cotton production is 18%. These countries are followed by India, Pakistan, Brazil and Uzbekistan, respectively. Our country is the eighth largest cotton producer in the world with a 3.5% share. Snow is one of the most important agricultural products that make the raw materials of 50 different industrial arms from textile to gunpowder and film material. Turkey's textile industry, as it is known, is an indispensable sector with the amount of foreign currency it provides for the country's economy, the volume of employment created by the intensive workforce of labor. The strategic raw material of our country's engine industry, textile industry, is cotton. Snow is as important as our textile industry, as is the raw material of the harp industry. Snow is also an oil plant, and its seed is used in plant oil production in the food industry. What remains is that protein is of great importance as high animal food. Snow is a strategic product because of its properties and has a great place in international trade. He's never lost anything in the face of synthetic fibre production. It is an industrial plant that supports about 6 million people, with the value of addition to the country's economy. In particular, cotton production in the Mediterranean region is now scarce. For the past two years, significant declines have been observed in cotton plantations in the Aegean region. The situation in Çukurova doesn't seem so different either. In particular, cotton fields in the Aegean region are replaced by hubbatas and orchards. The production area, which was 721,077 ha (hectar) in 2002, fell in later years, and was reduced to 579,940 in 2005. During 2002/2003, cotton consumption of 1,36,000 tonnes increased over the years, reaching 1,499,000 tonnes in 2006/2007. Cotton imports are made of 54.6% from the United States, 25.3% from Greece, and are made from countries such as Syria, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan. If a national policy can't be created in cotton, the crops will become smaller, so production will be reduced, and much of our country's need for cotton will be forced to be dealt with by imports. The cotton crop area, which was compared to 150,820 hai in 2006 and 2007, was estimated to have dropped by 20.14 percent in 2007, to 120.440 ha. In October 2007, climate conditions in our country were not generally suitable for cotton farming. Depending on cotton prices and national agricultural policy, farmers have continued to reduce cotton production over the past three years, instead adopted corn as alternative products, lower rates of tomatoes, sunflowers and sesame products. The high cost of input pens in the production of cotton -- the raw material of textile industry -- causes production to decrease every year. In our country, the rapid growth of consumption in parallel with the rapidly developing textile and fusion sector is essential to increasing production. For these reasons, Parliamentary Research must be opened. [[Mersin]] 2) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Elazığ]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Tekirdağ]] 15) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] 17) Durmiş Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 22) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Kastamon]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Traffic accidents in our country cause significant loss of lives and goods every year. Despite different causes of traffic accidents, the work remains incomplete to repair these reasons. For these reasons, it is the 98th Constitution to determine the importance of investigating the factors caused by traffic accidents. And your index is 104. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of Parliamentary Research. With all due respect. Transport has become one of the most basic needs of individuals today. The countries prefer specific transport systems based on geographical conditions and economic possibilities. However, sometimes underprivileged services also present positive transportation to human service as a problem. In our country, passenger and freight transport is largely provided by road transport. Hence, road transport is an important factor in the formation of traffic accidents. In the world, developed economies are trying to address the problem of transportation and mainly traffic safety with investments in transportation. Despite a rapid increase in population, drivers and vehicles in our country, there are not enough investments in transportation and traffic safety. According to international traffic literature, traffic safety includes areas such as infrastructure services, emergency intervention, post-accident rescue services, education, the implementation of legal legislation and audit services. Traffic safety and the complete implementation of the four things that are considered compliant and compliant. As a matter of fact, the Traffic Law on Highway 2918 is an important indicator that it has given nine ministries separate tasks, authority and responsibility. Meanwhile, in our country, serious traffic accidents can be seen not only on interstate roads, but on city roads as well. Therefore, while investigating the causes of traffic accidents, you must consider both areas of the city and the interstate. As part of highway security, areas such as road legislation, the education of people on the road, good transportation, improving infrastructure's security activities, auditing, institutional strengthening, traffic infrastructure have come forward. Therefore, in the context of preventing traffic accidents, research proposals for solutions need to focus on these issues. A significant portion of traffic accidents are predictable and thus preventable. In high-income countries, recent arrangements with an understanding for road safety have been a significant decrease in the lives and property losses of traffic accidents. Traffic accidents have significant effects as a result. One is that every year, thousands of our people die from traffic accidents, hundreds of thousands of people get hurt or injured. On the other hand, the social dimension appears to cover a much wider area, given the psychological effects on the relatives of those who died or were injured in traffic accidents. Second, traffic accidents have an economic dimension. Financial losses caused by traffic accidents are considered first in economic proportions. The financial damage caused by traffic accidents in our country has been known to reach 2% of the Unofficial National Products. Second, health expenses for those injured in accidents are also a significant economic loss. Most of them are imported from abroad, including drugs, prosthetics, ambulances, surgical supplies. In addition, there is an increase in the number of patients that doctors and other medical staff attend. Such factors as the loss of labor and loss of labor for those involved in the accident and the loss of labor for those who died and were injured also represent the other economic dimensions of traffic accidents. One reason why traffic accidents have such a big impact is because of the wrong policy on transportation. The recovery of traffic problems, the improvement of technical and physical infrastructure, the deterrent of control, the establishment of laws and co-ordination among relevant institutions, the awareness of all members of the community and the adequate training of the drivers, pedestrians and passengers involved in traffic. For all these reasons, the solutions to the cause of the traffic accidents need to be determined, well-defined, and to minimize traffic accidents. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] 3) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Kastamon]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mughle]] [[Elazığ]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] 11) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] 14) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] 16) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and then vote for: 15.02.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 15,02,2012 (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On January 2, 2012, the Council of Parliament Research for the National Assembly of Turkey, given by Bingal MP İdris Baluken and his friends (308 rows), was proposed to be read in Wednesday's jointly and held in the same date as other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. In favor of the proposal, Bingöl MP İdris Baluken. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0023par0309	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to start by respectfully greeting your committee. I will be speaking in favor of the Parliament's research motion, which we have made today concerning the Forensic Medical Association, which has been having a very serious discussion of its credibility and functioning on the public conscience for a long time. Of course, although we know that many of the research proposals we've brought here are unfortunately not being considered because of AKP's numerical superiority and that there are problems at the point of solving problems, we will still try to address the conscience of our friends here in some way. Now, valuable lawmakers, of course, need to make some descriptions of the Forensic Medical Association. There are some criteria in different countries that all institutions around the world have to have in general. The most important of these criteria is the credibility of the institution, the neutrality of the institution, the quality of the institution and the scientificity of the board. Now, in terms of these criteria, I want to share them with you. In terms of credibility, we know that a very serious debate has been carried out in both public and political authorities and in different mechanisms of justice, especially in accordance with the decisions that the Forensic Medical Association has so far taken in both its implementation and its functioning and its functioning. In fact, from the Supreme Court to the heads of the political party, there are a wide range of debates about the credibility of the Forensic Medical Association, from many parts of society who are victims of current cases to many social, social layers. The main problem here is that the Forensic Medicine Agency does not have the capacity to be an official expert in terms of credibility, but rather following decisions that will please the political man and the political man. Dear friends, as we know, the Forensic Medical Association operates within the Ministry of Justice in our country, and we believe that many things should be discussed here, until the current political structure, which should be enjoyed and satisfied by the election of political power in its structural functioning, the election of the institution's presidency and board members. It is clear here that there are serious problems with the neutrality of the Forensic Medical Association, because the official expert agencies that function as a forensic institution need to be a mechanism that has independent, autonomous structures all over the world, and in no way considers the existing structure of political adult power in any way, in its own center, in its own reference, in terms of justice, and in medicine, in terms of objective scientific realities. We set another criteria as ▪nitivity. The lack of quality of the Forensic Medical Association has been revealed in a number of public cases. It is clear to us that both the technical support of IT technology and the fact that in practice so far, it is not possible for the Forensic Medical Association to continue in this way in terms of quality. Look, there's a conflicting process in the region, and there are guerrillas who have lost their lives during this conflict. The result of these guerrillas' DNA tests is reported to their families after a two-month period of time, so after a two-month period of news of death, a family is able to somehow take its own funeral and somehow bury it according to its own beliefs. And even this example that we're just talking about is a very broad perspective on how to do some serious revisions here. On the other hand, the mass graves of the killings of JITEM have repeatedly reflected how the human bones recovered from the excavations were sent back by the Forensic Medical Association and how these reports were false in further investigations. Thus, we are faced with a very grave situation, both in terms of credibility and in terms of quality. Of course, in order to fit some scientific criteria, we just need to look at the internal functioning of the Forensic Medical Association. Even professors who have a political statement that disturbs the institution's internal functioning are forced either to be disassociated or to resign in some way within the institution. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have a serious problem here. The Forensic Medical Association is still an institution that reflects the impact of September 12th in all areas of social and social life -- coupist, militant, racist, sexist and fascist practices. I'm not going to bring this here with some technical details, but I'd like to share a few recent events with you. 13 - year - old N. C. In his case, we all know how 26 people were tried to be exonerated in the case of a girl who was raped, and in the reports filed by the Forensic Medical Association, how the practice of the person who was raped was to have a good conscience. On the other hand, we will bring details of the Assembly's agenda, but here we will share with you the conflicting reports of the loss of artilleryman Aydın Dere, registered to the population of Bingol Karliova, while serving in Çanakkale Gallipoli in 2000, in order to offer only one window. It has been reflected in both the public and the relevant units of the judiciary, but no sense of justice has ever been revealed that the family's sensitivity, the family's insistence, the investigation of the criminal department of the local police lab, and that there was no suicide in the autopsy investigations of the Istanbul Forensic Medical Association, and that there was a close-fired murder in the barracks. We'll bring this matter to the House in a very detailed manner and share it with you. On the other hand, the practice of Forensic Medicine on sick prisoners can stay in the prison for the past ten years. The death of 973 prisoners he reported. We still have over 200 imprisoned citizens who are heavy and waiting to die, living in the negative conditions of the prison. In the budget talks on the current situation of these friends, we shared with you on the stand here to give you an almost live broadcast on how Mehmet Aras had become heavy, how he had been taken into intensive care and how he had lost his life. However, despite all these sensibilities, it is not appropriate for university hospitals and different hospitals to remain in the prison. We know that it is appropriate for prisoners to remain in prison through a political area. On the other hand, with this approach, it is possible to see decisions that will please the political community only in Huseyin's example. In the case of a 70-year-old man raping a 14-year-old girl, we've all seen what a superior effort the Forensic Medical Association has put into a laundering mechanism. Therefore, there is a need for the Forensic Medical Association to be reconsidered in terms of both structural and organisational status. If an independent and autonomous institution performs a study based on scientific and universal criteria, it can regain credibility at the community level. Therefore, the Council's research on this matter is extremely important. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And speaking of justice and law, I'd like to make one last point. You know, today is February 15th. Right now, the entire area is on its feet, and there are serious incidents going on. We are all seeing how the heavy torture system of PKK leader Abdullah Ocalan, who was handed over to Turkey in an international conspiracy on 15 February 1999, brought an insurmountable issue through isolation of the Imran torture system. The removal of this isolation, the end of the Imran torture system we're talking about, is a matter that must be dealt with by the Parliament in these days when we need social peace the most. We still don't understand why Abdullah Ocalan was given to us by the Prime Minister of the period. While we're still making a statement in his last breath, we still want to be dragged into the middle of an ethnic conflict with Mr. Abdullah Ocalan and his political will...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0024par0327	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0023par0328	...in the framework of the Middle East regional policies, I believe it is the responsibility of this House to prevent the request to be handed over to the United States. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0024par0331	Ağrı MP Ekrem Çelebi against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0025par0334	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to give a statement to the esteemed Parliament regarding our Forensic Medicine Association first. As our president and our esteemed deputies know... of course, I particularly want to start with my own knowledge. Our province is a province in the non-national estate, which comes at the latest in eighty-one counties, but especially after the AK PARTY governments came to power, it showed a really big health-related leave. I would especially like to thank our Ministry of Health and our Ministry of Justice for the Forensic Medicine. Now, why did I start with my own knowledge first, and I want to present it to you? After June 12th, especially after we went to Ağrı (Ağrı) during the election, our funerals and funerals in our area went all the way to Tripoli if there was anything in forensic medicine that required forensics. So it's about eight to eight and a half hours between Ağrı (Ağrı) and Tripoli. This one, of course, we have, for example, towns that are borderline, and one of them is East White and the other is Ağrı. So there was a process that was going on for 18 hours, from where you can see it, but after we arrived, we started a study with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health, and now we have a forensics team set up at our Ache center. When did it go into action? He was appointed in 2011, and on 2/1/2012, he began his posting as our doctor. I, of course, was there last week because of my father's passing. We had one death, especially because of a gas leak in Patnos. Now, the state does this: in the previous years, the state carried the current body all the way to Tripoli, but here we have the Minister, and I personally thank them. After their 41st term appointment, our doctor, who had begun the pain, came and began his work. Even though it was on Saturday, we called them on the phone. 93 kilometers between us and the Center of Pain... eight avalanches between pain and Patnos, and even though the roads were closed, this doctor came in, looking at our brother who died at Patnos State Hospital and gave him his autopsy, and he went back. So, the next morning, we went, and our citizens were gathered. With all due respect, there was so much gratitude to the state request, to the state. For what? Because 19 hours earlier, a citizen who had gone to Tripoli and stayed in the morgue was no longer going, and Patnos was the doctor who came to him. I, however, would like to submit to you again on the subject of forensics: significant breakthroughs have been made in both national and regional and international platforms in recent years at the Forensic Medical Association, which was established to be an official expert on issues referred to by the Law No. 2659. There are six residency boards and six residency agencies in the central unit in Istanbul and the centre of the local Forensic Medicine Association. The country's construction can be met in two groups: it is the branch managers of the Morgue and Chemical Development Offices, with only two forensic experts. So what does that mean? For example, let's say there's an Office Office Chairman at the center of Tripoli, but it's just a branch manager in the district of Ağrı. So if there's anything that a forensic expert can't get out of, he's not going to send them to the station, he's going to solve them in his own province. He tries to do his part in forensic events with 82 forensic experts in the central community and 124 forensic experts in the rural community. In addition to the central unit, it serves as the branch manager in 41 districts, with the group's leadership in eight counties. Now, in addition to these, regional forensics are being set up. What do you mean? For example, let's say that one of them is built in Gaziantep, or one of them is built in Erzurum, and is now attached to the satha. Forensics didn't used to go to cities, especially in group presidents, but in the meantime, they'll be distributed to cities. From these, in particular, immediately, the group presidents in Ankara, Bursa, İzmir, Antalya, Adana, Tripoli, Malatya will be added to the group's leadership in 2011 and will be immediately launched if the construction process at Erzurum Group Service Building is completed. In addition, there will be allocations and building work to be established as group presidents in Samsun, where their buildings will be opened as soon as possible. In order to modernise the Forensic Medical Association's investment plans for 2012, initiatives are being made to build new service buildings for Diyarbakır group presidents. 374 people have been examined as part of the Istanbul Protocol regarding the incident, which was called the Blue Marmara incident, which ended with the death of nine of our citizens in the country, and after the completion of the required examinations, reports have been delivered to the judicial authorities again. After the death of the Spanish soldiers and after the incident of the plane crash, our crime scene investigations and identification work were carried out by the authorities, reports and statements from the Spanish court of forensic experts who participated in the autopsies have been dismissed from some military personnel duties in Spain, and our country has been praised. Again, one of the events that you will all remember in Mardin province was that with the support of the Justice Department in the shootings that killed 44 of our citizens, forensic experts were quickly sent to the area and the autopsy technicians were sent to finish the proceedings as soon as possible. In the following process, the number of forensic experts in both Diyarbakir and Malatya group presidents has been increased, thus allowing further intervention to take place in the surrounding provinces. The latest example is the incident of my hand in Uludere. In the earthquake in our province of Van, forensic experts and autopsy technicians who were referred to Diyarbakır and Malatya group presidents were ordered to conduct identification procedures as soon as possible. In connection with the alleged sexual abuses of TK 102/5 and 103/6. Our Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health and Forensic Medicine has again been employed by female forensic experts at the Sixth Medical Medicine Board in connection with the idea that their examinations may be immediate and that they want to be examined by female doctors. In particular, in the Plan and Budget Commission, Mr. Minister Fatma Sahin was also very sensitive about the matter. In the following cases, especially glass rooms will be activated in different cases or in this sense, one of the qualities that can help our ministry's Forensic Medicine Agency and in this sense, our judges and prosecutors. Again, studies launched to ensure standardization in all units of the Forensic Medical Association have been co-ordinated between chemical residency agencies before, especially prior to 2002 -- the integrity of these devices has been provided, and so studies are now particularly clear and clear in all the chemical expertise offices of the Forensic Medical Association. In order to be more effective on international platforms, the areas of the acreditation that has been launched in our institution have also been expanded. Again, I would like to state that there are initiatives, especially in our Turkish republics and in some Balkan countries, in the establishment of forensic medicine units in their own countries, in our Head of Forensic Medicine and within our Ministry of Justice. I would like to take this opportunity, especially to thank our Minister of Health and Minister of Justice for the processing of this Forensic Medicine office in our province. I also pay tribute to your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0026par0355	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. In favour of the proposal, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0027par0359	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of the BDP group proposal. I salute you all. Dear friends, the group's proposal has drawn a wide framework of the problems that the Forensic Medical Association has experienced. I don't want to repeat this framework, but I'd like to point out that last year, at the request of Mr. President, the State Board of Control had taken action and had taken a position on the functioning of the Forensic Medical Association in 2007-2008 and its operations and restructuring of 2009, and the State Control Board and this Council released its report last year, a report of 545 pages. This report was not a public report, and 28 pages of this have been made public, 28 pages of the State Control Board report have been released. On these 28 pages, the State Control Board has provided 23 very valuable assessments both in the context of forensic medicine and in the context of restructuring. However, over the course of time, it is understood that the Ministry of Justice has not responded to requests and suggestions in this report by the State Control Board. Therefore, we feel that it is extremely helpful for this Assembly to conduct extensive research in the framework of the legislative activity of the Forensic Medical Association. Of course, you're not listening again, you're not aware of the research proposals and the activity we're doing here is a law enforcement activity. I remind you of that again. Dear friends, look, imagine that there is a possibility that the opposition can tell the truth on this stand -- I said it once again, I say it again -- don't block your ears with us. Important words are said here at the point of Turkey's fundamental problems. And you come out here with stereotypes, and you make a statement about rejection without even seeing if our proposals could be true, and then you vote against them. Dear friends, it's not just the council's residency commissions that do the work. We're 550 MPs here, not all of us have very important jobs, 550 MPs, especially the ruling party MPs. We make questions here every day, we make research proposals, we propose laws, you don't have a lot of work, you don't have a lot of important work, you don't have anything more important than this activity. So we don't understand why you object to these research proposals, why you don't take a position at the point of Turkey's fundamental problems, at the point of research proposals, at the point of which this Assembly is setting up a research commission, we don't understand. It's been seven or eight months since June 12th, this Parliament has not yet established a research commission. None of what we say is worth anything, none of it means anything? This is about the Forensics Association we talked about today. Every day, we face a huge scandal with forensics and forensics. Don't you read these? Does it come in one ear and come out the other? There were headlines in the newspapers yesterday, a report on Metin Lokumcu who was killed in Hopa. The Association of Forensic Experts established an alternative delegation of the Turkish Medical Association, which issued a new report on the death of Metin Lokumcu. They came up with the exact opposite of the coroner's report. They say in that report... it's none of your business. You don't care about people dying. So far, 10 people have been killed by pepper spray, pepper spray, and in this period of power, 10 people have been killed by pepper spray. One of them is the Metin Delighter. What was the report of the Branch Directorate in Tripoli saying: "Sir, this died of lung failure and heart failure?" What did Forensic Medicine Council say after that? He repeated the same report. However, we have a new report. Even alone, this report, which shows that the medical examiner's report is inadmissible, makes it necessary to conduct an investigation into the Forensic Medical Association alone, not to mention the others. Turkey's most fundamental problems should not be so insensitive, so ignored at its point of view. Mr. President, who motivated the State Board of Control -- a elected President of your own -- has listened to public sentiment and set off an institution of his own authority. Have you read it? There's 545 pages, 28 pages of results, 23 very valuable suggestions. E, the bride, why they haven't been fulfilled in a year, what can be done, let's do that in terms of the reputation of the legislature, but a friend of ours will soon come out, well, there's been a lot of valuable work, there's been branch managership in Ağrı, this is established, this is how the staff has been established, we thank the Minister. He'll say, "Thank you." You have to listen to these research proposals, even if it's in terms of the reputation of the legislature. Because the Forensic Medical Association is the bleeding wound of justice in Turkey. We don't understand how much you've taken care of all the institutions that were created not just today, but after September 12th. Why are you taking care of all the institutions of September 12th? You take care of the M.E.S.S.S.A.? Why do you object to her becoming autonomous? Why do you object to his autonomy? Why do you object to a scientific board? Because as in Chile, the Forensic Medicine Agency is now a tool for doing the dirty laundry of power, so you object, you object because you're in power. Otherwise, let's set up a research commission together. Let's consider the proposals of the State Control Board at the beginning of this research commission, and let's make suggestions as to how this Assembly will restructure the Forensic Medical Association, and let's do this together. That's not for the Department of Justice to do alone. We can show the Justice Department the way here, as lawmakers, as legislators. At the point where justice will take place in public, we create a belief that forensic medicine will become an autonomous scientific institution. It's our responsibility, but you're against all this without any justification. Finally, dear friends, the Parliament is having a very important discussion these days, and the Commission is having an argument about the MIT. And in this regard, I have to express these views here, and I have expressed them in the Commission yesterday, and I say here: you are doing politically and legally wrong, and you are doing politically and legally wrong in this regard. Its political account is heavy, and its legal account is heavy. Therefore, before you come to this General Assembly, make sure that this offer is withdrawn, however anyone else is going to do it. Get him to back off, let's put the reasons behind this proposal on the table, and let's try to work it out together, otherwise we won't be able to solve Turkey's most basic problems with palliative offers. One day he'll come back and shoot you again because our legislation is full of big mines. This all happened during your time. I was listening to the Deputy Prime Minister earlier -- I don't accept an understanding of the government's institutions -- that is exactly what Turkey needs. Special authority courts have been in the past, they will be. With this, the Deputy Prime Minister does not only adopt the practices of today's special authority courts, but also the opinion that martial law courts are necessary, that state security courts are necessary, and that the courts of Yassia are necessary. Just like that, private courts say Turkey needs it. If the power has reached this point today, if the special authority has gone beyond the standards set by the world in the courts, if he's using it as a political tool, then one day this vehicle will come in and shoot himself and shoot you, too. Therefore, come, withdraw this law, and let us look for solutions to the fundamental issues of Turkey, together, here, in this Parliament, especially in private authorities. We'll vote in favor of the proposal. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0028par0374	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Against the proposal, Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can. Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0029par0378	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group's proposal to raise the issues of the Peace and Democracy Party's Forensic Medical Association. I hereby salute your delegation. Before me, the Republican People's Party Hatip said something about here that the Forensic Medical Association had covered up and closed the dirty laundry of the AK PARTY. If you know anything, say it from this stand, from the people's stand. If you don't know, if you're saying it to create a shadow, I declare you a mufter. He'll have to prove his claim. If the contractor doesn't prove his claim, he's a mufti. On the other hand, the AK PARTY has never had any dirty laundry, and unlike the AK PARTY, it has been a party that reveals the dirty laundry before it. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the group's proposals have now become a classic method of locking down the Parliament's work. Therefore, we do not see group proposals as sincere, nor do we vote for them because we see no sincereness, nor because we see mats to change the agenda.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0030par0381	I hope you get a job in Forensic Medicine!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0029par0382	Mr. President, when we look at the history of the Coroner's Office, the Forensic Medical Association is based all the way back to the Ottoman era, 1840. As the founding of modern medical education in 1840, on 14 March 1827, the school of Medicine Amire and later the Surgery Amire was merged and began teaching on the subject of forensic medicine in 1839. With the decree of the king of the period, the penal code was changed, along with the modern written penal code. A school has been opened by Mahmoud. In this school, the study began to teach forensics by Austrian Muallim Bernard. With further progress in criminal law, Turkey's Grand National Assembly passed the Law on Tababaeti 38 in 1920 and the Law on the Court of Justice that regulates the duties and powers of the medical examiners. With this law, forensics has continued to develop to serve the judiciary in murders, in injuries, in suspicious deaths. It was adopted on April 14, 1982, under the Law of Forensic Medicine 2659, and thus far the Law of Fair Medicine remains in place under a change in 2003. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers were moved to a modern building in Yenibosna, in 2006, when the Forensic Medical Association's Presidential Building was sadly miserable in Surgery, in Samatya. This modern building is also equipped with modern plumbing and served by the judiciary. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, in reference to the duties of Forensic Medicine, are an official institution tasked by forensics, courts, judges, and prosecutors, providing scientific and technical opinions on matters related to forensic medicine. Forensic expertise and branch expertise also serve within the scope of medicine. If there are wrong-doers within this institution, if there are false reports, if there are those who abuse and abuse the evidence at the point of tampering, of course, there will be administrative investigations due to its association with the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Justice will do what is necessary when the issue of administrative inquiry comes to light. On the other hand, he has judicial control. If there is a complaint filed against the prosecution, if there is evidence, the prosecution will investigate the matter on the resen or on a tip, and if necessary, it will apply for a civil suit. The development of the Forensic Medical Association also serves as an important part of the truth of the judiciary, the emergence of the material truth of the judiciary. In that sense, really good work has been done in our time. The Forensic Medical Association has become the centre of Istanbul as President and has served in the region as well. The group's leadership in Ankara, Bursa, İzmir, Antalya, Adana, Tripoli and Malatya will be added to the group's presidency in 2011 and will be launched immediately if the renovations of the Erzurum Group's service building are completed. In addition, construction and absorption work are under way to establish the group's presidency in Samsun. Again, initiatives have been made to build new service buildings for Diyarbakır group presidents, İzmir, Antalya, Bursa, who were scheduled for the modernisation of the Forensic Medical Association in 2012. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers are scheduled to establish autopsy centers in Gaziantep and Şanlıurfa provinces in order to ensure there will be no delay in autopsy procedures, and the renovations in the areas selected for this are almost over, and are scheduled to be launched in a short period of time, such as a month or two. I'd also like to mention the subject of sexual abuse expressed in the group proposal. As part of Articles 102/5 and 103/6 of the TCK related to sexual abuse, female forensic experts have been employed in either the Sixth Medical Examiner's Board or at the Forensic Medical Office's Office, to coordinate with the Ministry of Health to ensure that people are less traumatized, that they can conduct their examinations quickly and quickly. The presidency continues its work so that service can be conducted in such a way in the country. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, since we do not see the group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party as sincere, we will vote against you, and I salute your grand delegation again.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0031par0393	Thank you, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0032par0394	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit01spe0031par0395	The decision has been asked to be sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0031par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 66th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue with the presentation of the presidency to the General Assembly. The Party for Peace and Democracy's proposal was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer that proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide: Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. 15.02.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Wednesday 15,02,2012 (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Constitution. It was suggested by Çanakkale MP Ali Sarıbaş and his friends that the Turkish Assembly of the Grand National Assembly be read in the same session on Wednesday (March 15,11,2011) to be read in the same session of the Parliament Research Council (44) to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, which was given on the basis of "Searching for the issues of local newspapers and journalists that need to be taken."02,2012." In favour of the proposal, Çanakkale MP Ali Sarıbaş. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Yellowhead.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0033par0018	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, very valuable MPs, I have received a pledge today on the motion to investigate the problems of the local press, which we have given along with the Republican People's Party and 25 of our friends on 25 November 2011. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, we can't end up counting the problems of our local press and journalists in our country. But even though they have so many problems, freedom comes in the press at the very beginning of their problems, today. Today, we have close to 105 people on trial from the Anti-Terror Law. Our people's right to free and independent information is getting narrower and narrower. While some journalists have been tried for alleged links to the organization, there is no organization or organization. We even have a journalist arrested for protesting the governor of Istanbul. Among the dozens of journalists held in prison for their writings, journalist Mustafa Balbay, who has been elected MP by the votes of our people, has been held in prison for the crimes of dozens of journalists, including Professor Mehmet Haberal, Tuncay Özkan, Nedim Sener, Ahmet Şık, Professor Yalçın Küçük, Soner Yalçin,. With this painting, the number of arrested journalists has risen to 105. As of the number of arrested journalists in the world, the country has seized the 1st place. The arrests for the AKP government's Anti-Terror Act and politicians, students, journalists, trade unionists, intellectuals continued at the latest, while arrests for the Anti-Terror Act, which has been held with all hands, have become clear to arrested journalists. The number of arrested journalists, 39 in January 2011, has unfortunately risen to 105 in January 2012. In this case, our country has become the largest prison in the world in terms of journalists under arrest. In fact, we have writers and journalists inside, even without a book being published, even as he thinks. The prime minister, the president, the AKP minister and the executives are not journalists, they are terrorists. Unfortunately, he can't cover up the truth. At the very least, these explanations are explanations of guilt. Dear lawmakers, it is not possible for us to consider the problems of our local newspapers and journalists as we isolate them from the problems of our national press and journalists. Whatever problems our national newspapers and journalists have, the problems of our local newspapers and journalists are the same. As they carry out their mission to enlighten our people and to make knowledge in time, they face many serious problems, pressures, and thus struggle to survive. There's been trouble getting a piece of the ad cake, which is the lifeblood of our local newspapers' survival, and they don't get enough of the official newspaper ad cake. In addition to the lack of commercial ads and advertising, the difficulty of supplying paper and the poor rate of newspaper reading, poor circulation, instead of improving content for sales, many factors, such as looking for a cure in tabloid news and promotion campaigns, lack of technology, lack of qualified recruitment, affect the development of our local press. The most important problems of our local press, described by the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, are economic problems, while our local media struggles to find news materials, while under pressure from local ruling environments, on the other hand, they suffer under pressure from power pressure. In these challenges, our newspapers are suffering from the fact that they are unable to carry out their journalism activities. Although the distribution of the official ads has been somewhat affected by the ads and ads in the cities where the Press Ads are located, there are serious problems in the distribution of official ads to local newspapers, and there are no equal distributions in the cities without the Press Ads. We also see that local governments and large commercial organisations are not sensitive enough to advertise and advertise. A businessman who opened a bank, factory or hospital in Anatolia today prefers to give his ad and ad to national newspapers instead of local newspapers. This creates a negative situation for local newspapers. It causes a breakdown in economic balance that can sustain them. It's very important for local newspapers to get a piece of the official ad cake. According to the number of pages and duration of the publication in the centers of the Press Ads Foundation, the release was left to the initiative of governorships and subsidiaries, where there was no ads. The governorship and the trustees will be able to use their powers fairly and abuse them as well. As a matter of fact, given that the governor and the governors today work as political mayors or mayors in today's power, you are well aware that our local press -- as well as this share -- has been served objectively. Another problem with our local press is the lack of technology. The lack of technology makes him feel every step of the way until the newspaper comes out, publishes and distributes. Our local press... In recent years, research has revealed that 28.6% of local newspapers are aligned by hand, 39.6% by machine, and 31.7% by computer. We're still monitoring local media in our country trying to be removed with pedaled, portable, photocopiers. The other problem is the circulation problem of our local newspapers. After all the technical work and content of the newspaper is prepared, it needs to be on countertops for sale, reaching readers in a different way. According to the developed countries, he is not in the habit of reading newspapers in our country. When interest in reading the newspaper was low, especially from the 1990s to today, they were asked to hand out coupons and increase circulation through lotarian methods so that some of our national newspapers could only survive by increasing their circulation. While our local newspapers are perceived as the side arm of our national press, unfortunately our local media, including the issues of the region and its people, create solutions, development of relations and positive public opinion. Our local press and press members in our country have a lot of problems. Our local newspapers, particularly our local newspapers in various counties, are having difficulty reaching the news source, especially because they have very close relations with public institutions and organisations in the areas in which they are published. I would like to request the support and commission of the motion that we have made with our friends in order to provide economic support and solutions for our institutions and especially our local media as they perform these ulterior duties. I offer my deepest love and respect.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0034par0036	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca against him. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0035par0040	Mr. President, I have been promised against the Republican People's Party group proposal. I hereby salute your high council. I think we need to make a determination first. The local press is the essentials of democracy. Therefore, we need to emphasize our government's sensitivities regarding encouragement, strengthening, support. A lot of work is being done within our Office of the Press-Journal and Information on this issue, in which local media are understaffed in terms of staff and technical issues, and are able to increase readability and monitoring rates, depending on them. It's best to put these findings in place first. What's all this? First of all, there's seminar-level work, there's vocational training, there's news agency, there's the ability to access the news, there's work to get press cards. These are really, really, in the last ten years, in steps to encourage, strengthen local media, but are there still things that can be done? I do. Their demands should also be addressed at the level of trade organisations, as well as at the level of vocational organisations, taking the necessary steps regarding the press broadcast, whether it is a council or a union, all the work of the community, all the work of the local press foot -- of course the financial size of this is very important. I'd like to talk to you about some real results so I don't keep this short. In this area, local media education seminars are held twice a year in different parts of the country, including 17 provinces that have been conducted so far. These include interview training, which include seminars, regulations changes, press ads, and this is part of the study of the press card, and I think twice a year, a study that exceeds 17 provinces. Again, we have a member of the news agency, our valued lawmakers, and this is very important. It's an advantage given to local media in order to access the news cheaply, make it easier to get the news. What is it? Membership of the news agency from local media services has the advantage of the news agency provided by the Editor-in-Chief of Press Publishing Information, provided to our media organisations by our General Directorate. It reduces cost and gives the local media advantages in order to strengthen it. Of course, the Istanbul press is on a different scale, so I'm keeping it separate. There is a monthly newspaper of the Voice of Anatolia, which is designed to provide news and information flow between the regions, to provide news and information for newspapers in Anatolia. There is also a channel study, including the Voice of Anatolia, and a channel, which includes the Voice of Anatolia. Here's the thing: it's a work done to get the Voice of Anatolia to every point in Turkey, with an agreement in TRT, between local news being able to receive support in terms of national and general media. This includes another activity in which the Anatolian press is encouraged by competitions. Maybe if you look at it as a competition, you know, it can be perceived differently in this context, but in these competitions, we can see that both journalists who have received their vocational training can participate, and they have a purpose to encourage and evaluate, and we can see that the Anatolian press is contributing to this process. Again, news, photographs, broadcasts, and similar supports for local media continue to increase when we receive the latest reports. What's with the press? It's a good picture. Sometimes he only talks about pictures, getting good photography techniques. Again, education on broadcast rules and news rules is included in this scope. It also has a dimension about the world, the size of the world, the media work, the voice of the locals, the voice of the local broadcast to the world, and the transmission of the local media to the general audience through the Voice of Anadolu, released on TRT Anadolu channel. Now, there's actually one thing: in many parts of Anatolia, the 80 provinces of Turkey, it is possible to join the Voice of Anadolu, but our local journalists serving in Istanbul cannot benefit from it, and they have a right to complain about it, and it's like this: because the Istanbul press is in the center, local journalists who broadcast there, and they have a right to benefit from it. I'm highlighting this in particular. I think we should work on that, at least for myself, and we'll do what we have to do. You know, there's been a change in the Press Card Charter. In the amendment to the Press Card Charter, elementary school graduates received a very important contribution to our local press, which allowed them to have a yellow press card. You know, there were people who missed that. For those of you who did not benefit from this right two years ago, in January of 2012, in January of January of 2012 -- the last January 26th was the last application date -- for those who didn't know about the amendment to this right -- we have a study in our General Directorate -- which I believe is very well attended by the Press and Publishing Information General Directorate. And as of January, that was the end of the right because it was a new rights study for elementary school graduates, who had been in the profession for years, but who couldn't get a yellow press card because of his graduation. I'd like to pay attention to another detail, which is that there are also research and visit programmes for local journalists in various parts of the country. What is this? Pressmen who can serve at every point in Asia Minor and visit programmes are one of the key sources in the horizon, such as visits to Istanbul and Çanakkale in many parts of the country, from Uganda to Diyarbakirt, from Mardin to Batman. The local media briefings are another study I'd like to express. Actually, there's a lot to say, but I don't want to say that this is the pen. I want to stress in particular that the press, the local press, in particular, is essential to democracy, it needs to be strengthened, it needs to be encouraged, because it is the best person to convey dynamics in the region. When you look at the general media, it gives heavy work on the country's overall economy, but in the local one, it's much more advantageous in regional broadcasters, so it's hard to disagree. I underlined the work because the Editor-in-Chief of the Press Publishing Information depends on our Prime Ministership and will sign new services within the scope of our work. I express the intensity of today's agenda, and due to these unscheduled studies, I have made a commitment against the Republican People's Party group proposal, and with that feeling and thoughts, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0036par0057	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. In favour of the proposal, MP Lütfü Türkkan. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0037par0061	Mr. President, valuable members, it's very difficult to separate the problems of the local press from the other media in Turkey, from the other media in Turkey. Although there are some problems of its own, we also find the problems of the general media in one-on-one local media. I'm a member of the European Union's Integration Commission, and next week the European Union has a meeting of the Karma Parliamentary Commission in Istanbul. The biggest problem we faced at our last meeting in Brussels -- Mr. Justice Minister -- was the problem of arrested journalists in Turkey. In that regard, we have come with a wish that the next meeting would be reduced, even though we have tried to move the talks as far as possible. Yesterday, we received a briefing from the Justice Department bureaucrats, and we learned that this number was up to 105. So Turkey, which is on trial with 63 arrested journalists, will go to the Karma Parliamentary Commission meeting this time along with 105 arrested journalists. Mr. General Manager has something for us. These journalists are not in prison for the crime of journalism. Why are they in prison? The PKK and ACK prisoners, 24 of them Marxist, Leninist, member of the Communist Propaganda Union, were called ETÖ. What did I say? Ergenekon terrorist organization. You have also done evil to Ergenekon, and you have done evil to Ergenekon. He's a member of the Ergenekon terrorist organization, Vesair. Look, I'll tell you something: a gay well called Ergenekon has been opened in Turkey. Whoever's in this gay well, whoever's in opposition, whoever's making a noise, lifts it up inside the horse. He's already a journalist, he's a PKK member; if he's a Communist, he's a Marxist, he's a member of Leninist propaganda; if he's a nationalist, he's a member of a terrorist organization. So, the way to put journalists away is to infect a terrorist organization. I'm telling you as a man who's served time in prison on a terrorist organization charge in the past. We've been acquitted, my friends. You're trying to account for it later, right now, 32 years from now. In thirty-two years, they will not be able to answer to you, but in the Hereafter they will question you. I mean, we've crossed the gate bridge, and we've got business on the other side. Don't look, there are people waiting for you, and I just wanted to let you know. When you go to local journalists, the biggest problem with local newspapers is that there's a pressure on the local media after the Justice and Development Party gains power in local governments: if you speak to the opposition news, we'll cut your advertising revenue. Not only do we cut you down, but we'll stop you from getting publicity from other institutions like the industrialist, the businessman who's going to give you advertising. There is no comparative difficulty in giving public ads where the Foundation of the Press is located. As a matter of fact, there have been some difficulties there, but in some important places, in places where there are no Press Agency offices, there is a subsidiaries who have no information about this, any officer who has no information before, who is reporting in favour of the current administration, the Press Agency does not give the ads, they don't give the ads to those who don't. This pressure and persecution continue over local media, thanks to you. Actually, the most important thing to keep the local media alive are the ads from the Press Agency. Because, really, the government is paying the top dollar for their ads, $7.45. That's a lot of money for the others. I believe in this country, democracy. It's the greatest injustice for those who say, "I believe in democracy." There's only one range where those who can't make a sound to the opposition can take this country; your range is fascism.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0038par0068	They took him away!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0037par0069	Look, every time you go to a place, you start to hear the words of the fascist and dictator. Don't you notice anything? Don't you ever mind? You can accuse it of a lot of opposition, but turn to the mirror a little bit. Tell me, is it not our fault? You're trying to get out of the democratic parliamentary system and turn parliament into a country ruled by fascism dictatorship. There's another technical issue: RTÜK fines local media in some faulty publications, misprints. The power of local media is clear, the number of people he will employ, the financial resources are clear; local media cannot handle the punishment that RTÜK has imposed, so local media are willing to accept the penalty for closure. The RTÜK should be able to adapt its arrangement to local media. Previously on SECA in this country, governments used 50 per cent subsidies on newspaper paper given to the local media, and after the SECA was shut down, local media importers have been the victims of newspaper paper importing from abroad and now alone. Since they have no opportunity to import on their own, importers are putting local media in a very serious position by raising prices even when the dollar is down. Employees have problems in local media. Local media owners who are trying to stand run an important part of the workers without insurance, employing journalists by paying normal pay premiums instead of journalist insurance premiums. The yellow press card is no longer a prestige because of the release of the yellow press card to everyone. It's a set of facilitators that have previously been provided for the yellow press card, and they've been removed. I'd like to say that in Turkey, every professional graduate from a school, even a barber, works as a barber with a degree from an artist's room, there is no school for journalism in Turkey, and anyone who wants to be a journalist can be a journalist. That brings some mistakes. In local media, too, a lot of young people with communication graduates who are currently unemployed are forced to hire a party member who is known to have good relations with local governments as journalists. Why? He'll transfer the ads and ads of that municipality to us, hoping. I think journalists should be given a standard, an education, and journalists who are not qualified to be trained should not be given the opportunity to be a journalist. As I complete my vows here, I give you all my regards. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0039par0075	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Against the proposal, Izmir MP Rifat Sait... [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Sait.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0040par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath against the Republican People's Party's proposal to investigate the issues and solutions of local media. On this occasion, I salute you all. As Mr. Tülay Kaynarca, our AK PARTY MP, has just mentioned, the Press Agency and the Prime Minister's Press-Journal and Information General Directorate have very important services to local media. I'm your brother from the local press, and as a brother with a yellow press card, I'd like to say this as a person from within practice. The Prime Minister's Press-Journal and Information General Directorate and Press Agency have recently given significant support to local media. Again, it supports local media, which the Press Advertisement Agency has done with KOSGEB. The local press conferences held here in Manisa, Bursa and Edirne, also under the protection of Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bulent Arinc, have had significant impacts. In the same way, the meeting of local media in Turkey, which had recently been organised and published in Turkish in the Balkan countries, has also been very useful. I'd also like to talk to you about some of the services of the Prime Ministerial Press and Information General Directorate. A meeting was held on February 4, 5, 2012, under the heading of the New Media Order, Rights and Responsibility, with the invitation of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, the deans of communications faculty or representatives of all our country. Information from all organizations in the media sector, which have a very high rate of monitoring, is published in a general database under the title "Serial Publishers", so that local broadcasts can be introduced and easily accessed to league tapes. In Anatolia, the newspapers, which have been broadcasting for years without interruption, also receive awards at some times. Journalists who received awards in the periodical Anadolu Press Care Competition have been given laptop computers, cameras, audio recorders. Again, training seminars for local media are one of the most important services. I've been in a few of these myself. Regarding the press cards, as Ms. Tülay mentioned earlier, giving primary school graduates a one-time press card also eliminated an important victim of our local press. Research and visit programmes for local journalists have been conducted in various parts of the country, including visits to Izmir, Mugla, Manisa, Konya and Şanlıurfa, and promoting local media here. In order to facilitate journalists' international work, the study of service to some journalists has been launched, which means giving them a gray passport. It has been provided to meet and deliver the local media's overall audience with the Voice of Anatolian Voice, which is broadcast on TRT Anatolian channel, which brings the local voice to the world and gives a broad echo. Again, as a training service for local media, the New Face of the Anadolu Press, the New Face of Design, was prepared, and the CDESTs were distributed for free to local media. Another important service, along with the promotional fund of the Editor-in-Chief of Press Publishing and Information and the Turkish Chambers and Stock Exchanges Association are foreign language courses for the media and some local media members have been sent abroad. Dear lawmakers say we disagree with the Republican People's Party's proposal to conduct research on local media, with respect to the fact that we will vote against it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0041par0092	Thank you, Mr. Sait. Mr. Yellowhead, you're in the system, I wonder why?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0042par0094	Sir, we'd like to correct a misunderstanding of our motion.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0041par0095	Okay, here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0042par0098	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Our motion on the press card said that the arrangements had been made and that there were no problems. I, in particular, know that a press worker can't have a yellow card, a press card, when a month's insurance premium doesn't go up, or whoever brings up the paper doesn't have a BUG-KUR. I believe that during this period when everyone, like bread and cheese, even bureaucrats, has a yellow press card, these fundamental owners of these people must be resolved and the commission must be set up. In this sense, they say that this commission has started since the first month, but since these problems have continued so far, and the local press can't solve these problems, I feel the need to make this correction, and therefore I expect their support that the commission must be established.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0043par0103	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, according to the decision, we do not discuss verbal question motions and move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We are continuing the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. The Commission and the Presidential Representative? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with Dahir Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 2nd place, confirming the Framework Protocol for the KKTC of Çukurova University. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 67 rows. On behalf of groups on the entire bill, Ankara MP Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Turkesh.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0044par0123	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. (x) 67 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. As I begin my speech, I would like to remember once again the founder of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, the great politician and statesman, the hero Rauf Denktas Sir, with mercy and respect. Against those who didn't understand the epic struggle and desire of the Turkish Cypriot in the monument of Rauf Denktash, the motherland and the baby will keep the ideal of the late Denktash alive forever in memory and in verbia, no one will have any doubt. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, while I am happy to take a stand here today on matters of Cyprus and education, I must say that I have not been indifferent to the issues that have rocked our country lately. Unfortunately, the reputation and authority of the Republic of Turkey is melting every day. I'm saying this as a plain citizen. The events we bear witness to are annoying. Turkey has no untamed state institutions, and law is crushed and ignored daily with new examples. I don't need to tell you what the AKP's vision of advanced democracy has done to the country, the state and the nation. Everyone sees and everyone lives. All of the national values, institutions and ideas have been destroyed, destroyed, and damaged. I'm so sorry. Today, I hope, the fact that Cyprus, which is an absolute national case, has come to the attention of a university campus under the Turkish Grand National Assembly, will be a beacon to remind state officials and political institutions of their true duties. The issue is related to the campus of Çukurova University in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Of course, I intend to take this opportunity to spread our tests and proposals to a wide range. Because for me, Cyprus is not just a political issue, it's also a matter of the heart, it's a matter of the heart. One of the economic engine sectors of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, or even the leading ones, is undoubtedly education, and therefore universities. As of today, there are 42,000 students in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus who continue to study high. Only 10 per cent are citizens of Northern Cyprus, while 70 per cent are citizens of the Republic of Turkey. Students are studying from 65 different countries in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and again, professors from 35 different countries are serving at the universities of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus has five Greek Cypriot universities: East Mediterranean University, Girne American University, Lefke European University, International University of Cyprus and Near East University. As universities that have opened campuses in Turkey and Cyprus, we can also count the Middle East Technical University and Istanbul Technical University. In this sense, a new campus initiative from Çukurova University will also be named on this list. We care about this initiative, and we wish it to be a blessing. Because we believe that universities contribute to economic and cultural meaning in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and are integrated into the world through students from various countries around the world. There are many successful politicians, artists and businessmen from different countries who have graduated from the universities of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. These are very positive indicators. This success creates an environment of repetitive recognition that exceeds the embargo on northern Cyprus. The idea of the campusus will also be popularized in the future. Because the general trend in the world is also in this direction. As you know, with the Bologna Process, a new phenomenon has been created in the world called "lifelong education." So doing similar studies in different places is also the subject of circulation of students and the use of professors in this sense in different countries. Cyprus also has the perfect infrastructure for this. But, of course, it doesn't end here with opening a campus or developing and spreading that understanding. Because quality is as important as quantity. We need to consider the quantitative element in multidimensional terms. I'm not just betting on the content of education here, it's important, of course, but the real skill is that education can be given in a superior and productive environment, as well as in quality higher education. Students who come to an outside country for education prefer countries with cheap but also qualified living standards. Today, the standards for students who have come to education in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus are a bit expensive, unfortunately. So, what can we do about it? There are many possibilities for that. If we sum it up very clearly and simply, we need to improve, improve, improve, and increase the conditions of living in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and also be careful that the cheapness -- which I just mentioned -- is that the demand can live, but can live. Of course, it is also important to draw students to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus at educational fairs abroad and to promote its quality in that sense. Turkey must play an important role here. We desire the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus to be a shining academic centre in the world. However, the only means for efforts and efforts to bear fruit is to give the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus an opportunity and support to embrace the world with its own identity. But is it possible to say that the state of the Republic of Turkey, as of 2012, has a consistent policy in this line, and has such a grand vision? We don't think so. We're not saying this because we're the opposition party. If only the AKP could properly assess the power it has given him, and not hesitate to use it for useful purposes. Because for us, Turkey's interests come first. The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus must be known to have an unwavering emotional bond with Turkey on the basis of brotherhood, and therefore we cannot keep Turkey's interests separate from the interests of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. However, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus has been deprived of its warmth, its compassion, since 2002, during different periods of the AKP ruling the country alone. The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, which has already been pushed into isolation on the international platform, has gone through a period when the AKP's government could not trust Turkey as a result of its indifference. Dear lawmakers, I want everyone to know very clearly that the issue of Cyprus, regardless of who holds the provisional power, is a national case, which is an official and national-level case that concerns the entire state of the Republic of Turkey, and should be a follower of every sector. In this sense, it's more than just a government policy, it's a real state matter. At this point today, unfortunately, the state of the Republic of Turkey is trying to create the impression that there is no case left. Indeed, the AKP considers Cyprus a problem, not a case. As with all other branches and areas of foreign policy, in Cyprus, AKP Power is a surrenderist, relatively conflicting, inconsistencies with national values, and, sadly, a double standardist. Honourable lawmakers, AKP surrenderists: because they did not refuse to destroy the logic of the values that make this land a homeland with a thousand covers to get a profile of the so-called party that destroys the taboos. The nation has placed everything qualified in the status quo class and has thus served in certain centers. In the matter of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, irreparability is not the solution. In its folly, they cited the late Rauf Denktash as the reason for the unresolved solution. As a matter of fact, to the late Denktash, who came to Turkey for some conferences in 2005, go make politics in his own country. He even dared to utter an inappropriate and disrespectful sentence like that. After all this has happened, I'd like to consider the fact that Mr. Denktas went to Cyprus for his funeral as a return from these mistakes and believe him. AKP is a Islamist: For it appears to be a pioneer and sole representative of the mindset of Turkey, which has been relentlessly pursuing foreigners. The same attitude, the merchant he was proud of, did not hesitate to show his head in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. As a matter of fact, everyone, the Prime Minister has a marketing in politics, they don't know that. I'm selling my country. I say the same thing for the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. I invite you to remember his words. But I also have to say that we haven't seen the harsh attitude or the intolerance that was shown to Cyprus during the period of last year's tension with Israel -- the water distribution network investment that Israel made in Cyprus, like the port. Since 2004, the Annan Plan has been hiding behind and hiding behind the AKP government at every opportunity. Now, I would like to address Mr. Prime Minister: If you could show even a thousandth of your effort during the so-called Arab Spring to take the dignity of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus in the international community, we would have won this holy cause by now. Dear lawmakers, of course, it is necessary to emphasize the dual standardism of the AKP's surrenderism and merchant understanding. The AKP's government also does not neglect to use the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus as a pawn in spite of the changing conjunctives. We hear from authors, researchers who are close to power, and we read that there is information that if there is a positive result of Israel's certain activities with the Greek Cypriot administration in the south of Cyprus, that is, if oil or natural gas is found, Turkey can go to an agreement with the southern Greek Cypriot part, and it will cut Cyprus from becoming a so-called a so-called headache. Another option is that the state of the Republic of Turkey may retreat in exchange for one or two military bases on the island of Cyprus, they say. The AKP is double standard. Because in accordance with some of the subcontractors in foreign policy, he is not afraid to use the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus in domestic policy and abuse it with false good intentions. Now there's a so-called national issue. At first glance, we may be expected to be satisfied when it comes to the national issue, or we may easily fall under the mistaken assumption that AKP has again embraced its traditional Turkish foreign policy. However, within the class, which the AKP has called national issues, there are issues that are so different and unrelated that our truly national case, Cyprus, is being ordinaryized and neutralized. AKP's national issues are spreading so wide that the concept is being emptied on this occasion. According to this, Gaza was promoted as a national matter of Turkey, in Damascus, in Baghdad, in Cairo, in Tripoli. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm warning you from here that things aren't healthy. The AKP is following a disseminating foreign policy. He's not peaceful, he's half imperial, he's delusional. Meanwhile, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is sacrificed for AKP's imagination. In fact, the conclusion that we have come to in light of all this information shows that there is a Cyprus problem. The problem is the AKP. Once we are united as states and nations, nothing can stand in our way. Instead of seeking help from the United States, from the EU, or from other altars, let us mobilise all our forces together and introduce and live our national cause, Cyprus, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. I think, just like us, our people ask and expect you to follow our national dreams, national cases, rather than subservient to global projects as long as you're in power. Yes, while Çukurova University wishes the campus to be a blessing, I hope that the AKP's Authority will at least contribute effectively to the development and recognition of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus in every way, and I salute the Grand Assembly with these feelings and thoughts.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0045par0150	Thank you, Mr. Turkesh. Mr Varli, you've entered the system. What is it for?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0046par0152	I'd like to make a contribution to the matter, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0045par0153	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0046par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. The campus, which the University of Çukurova will build in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, is a very positive development, which we support. As an Adana MP, I appreciate this initiative by Çukurova University. I'd like to thank Mr. President and everyone who contributed to this initiative. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0047par0157	Thank you, Mr Varli. Mersin MP Aytuğ Atı on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0048par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of Çukurova University's Public Party's Charter on the Approvement of the Framework Protocol on Campus Building in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. I salute you all. Dear MPs, it would certainly make us very happy that Çukurova University set up a campus in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. As a graduate of Çukurova University Medical School, I'd be a little more pleased. The work our scientists have done here and the announcement of our country's name will make us all very proud, especially me. It makes you proud, but in science, I wonder how Turkey's name is heard around the world, so let's take a look at it. In the context of my speech, I'm going to see how Turkey's place in science is seen, and then, with this agreement, I'm going to end my discussion with the campus of Çukurova University -- because medical school is being processed heavily -- in medical school and other schools. Now, how does the world look at us in science? I'm going to tell you a little story, a recent memory, you all know: We had recently taken a work trip to England with Mr. President. Mr. President, in the UK, he gave a speech at the Turkish Academy of Sciences called the Royal Society, which was the Turkish Academy of Sciences, and there were very respected scientists from England. Perhaps a scientist who didn't know Turkey at all, who didn't know the political disputes in Turkey, wanted to speak at the end of the talk, and asked the president directly, "Mr. President, why are you infecting the Academy of Turkish Sciences?" That's the question. Look where England is, where Turkey is! But the scientist -- science is a universal issue -- resists and resists an attack on science at once, no matter where in the world. The president had a really rough time there, and I sat in the front row and watched him suffer, and I talked to the parties, and yes, it shouldn't be, but, you know, we'll do it for once. And he said, "We'll do it for once." And there were laughs in the hall. Now, why did you put our President in a position to put politics on an institution that should be above politics, such as the TUBA? Why did you put the Turkish nation on the spot with the President? See, 1/3 of the TÜBA members are again assigned by the original members of the TUBA (TİBA), and 1/3 is specified by the YOK. You know, when you fought against the SEC, which was your trumpet, you always fought against it, and then you did what you said, and all of a sudden, you did what you said, and then you did what you did, and then, remember, that's what the government does, and that's what the government does.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0049par0168	He used to make your horn before?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0048par0169	Oh, now you've admitted he's made your horn, as an embezzler. We've never been in power alone since 1950, Congressman. The SEC was never our trumpet, but you used to say it was someone else's horn, and now our trumpet. You have personally accepted it, saying, "Thank you for your contribution." Now, it's not enough, it's only a third: you've stood up without any shame, without any embarrassment, and you've tried to appoint the Council of Ministers for an institution that should be above politics, such as TUBA. The Council of Ministers, I mean, can you imagine? Come on, we called the SEC your piper, but there's still people with a conscience coming out of it, arguing, saying yes, saying no, but the Council of Ministers is the government, isn't it? You tried to appoint, the world stood up, you stepped back, you said: "We've given up, let TBITAK make the appointment in the last few minutes." Who's throwing TUBITAK? It's the government again without shame. Behold, everything turns round and turns round, and it turns round, and it is a day when the reckoning will return. You've done a lot more when you've had a chance to deal with things that you claim to be victims. Scientists couldn't digest it, and nearly 50 scientists resigned from the TUBA. That's right, you can look into it. We can't tell people around the world, scientists, and our president couldn't. We can't explain it to the intelligent scientists in Turkey either. On the one hand, we're spending serious money to help science develop, and on the other hand, you're polluting science with politics and pouring condensation into its roots. Science only thrives in free environments, my dear friends. As someone who's spent an important part of his life in this community, science doesn't develop in this country if you use science as a tool for politics. I know there's a lot of scientists in you, and they understand what I'm talking about, so I'm saying it without a party. No one will believe in our scientist's neutrality now, thanks to you, TUBA, with this kind of practice. I have a very important request from the politicians. Look, whoever's in charge, now there's the AKP, and I'm telling the AKP: please, please, leave the science and the scientists alone, please. Look, I'm showing you the importance you've given science: As a government, you issued a decree in the Official Gazette of August 27, 2011. You know what it's about? The Court of Law No. 651 determines the agency and its duties of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Food, Agriculture and Animalism... you got up, and then you organized the work of the Turkish Academy of Sciences, TUBA. So that's how much you care about science, about TUBA. Had to make some changes. And you stood up, and instead of doing something original again, you pressed behind a decree of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy that determines the organization and its duties. So, for God's sake, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has an agency law, and on the other hand, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has a code of law, and you've got TUBA stuck in it. That's your understanding of science, that's your concern for science. You haven't conducted any negotiations with the shareholders. You've implemented some changes in a non-expressive and intractable way, and you've officially destroyed the scientific and institutional autonomy of TUBA. With the intervention of the AKP, which should remain unpoliticized, you expressed and demonstrated your desire to give the institutions a partial direction. Such a Academy of Sciences is doomed to lose all dignity in the eyes of other academies around the world. So in a public language, you've disgraced Turkey's science to the world, and you've done it. If you didn't do it, get up on the stand and say, "We didn't do it. TÜBA is free, TÜBİTAK is free, YÖK is free, there is no political influence in any way. Let me come and apologize to you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0050par0173	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0048par0174	Let's go out and say it's free, we don't bring politics into any scientific influence. Say, "Let's not just apologize, Congressman, I'll button up my front, but show it to me." We need this. So, what do we say?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0050par0175	What have they done so far?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0048par0176	You can't just yell from there. You can't just go in the back and yell, you're gonna talk full.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0051par0177	That's what you guys do.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0048par0178	What do we say? We say that all steps for a majority democracy must be prepared with the broadest participation of all legal and constitutional changes to be made and carried out with social consensus. This is what we want. That's the democracy we want. Now, look, let me give you an example of what you're saying in that very famous way: we're doing very well. You're saying! Where are we on training? Look, there are 34 OECD countries, 34. We're number 32 in his reading skills. I'm not making up this data. Go, look, you'll find it from OECD. We are number 33 in 34 countries in education spending. The average education year of the population is six and a half years, and we are the last of the OECD. I mean, we're good scientificly, you know, you know, you guys don't get involved, you know, free. In the Democracy Index, we've fallen to 89th place in all the countries of the world this time, and among the free countries we're ranked 112. We're number 138 in the freedom of the press investigations, valued lawmakers. We need to talk about this on purpose. They scored points for corruption on a scale of ten to countries. We've taken the 56th place in corruption with a score of 4.4 out of 10 bad points. That was in the days of your governments. We are number 127 in global peace, so they've put us on the red list. We're in the 93rd place in human development. We're number 84 in general inequality. I mean, I know I'm depressing you. Here you go, your ministers and your deputies, saying, "By Allah, we did this." And they say, "You will listen to this." You will surely have to do it. You are already in authority. You have already made such promises when you go door-to-door, seeking to play with them, and then you stand up here saying, "Something has happened." Look, we're number 77 in gender inequality, the last of the OECD. We're number 102 in inequality of education, 65 in inequality of income in the world. Now, while we are like this, we rise up and leave, and set up a campus on the young Vatan. And my rule is, well, I don't know if we're doing them any good or bad. Now, while Mr. Health Minister is here, I'm going to change the course of your position, my speech a little bit, and I'm going to stick to the agreement again, and I'm not going to read gas because according to this agreement, a medical student is going to go, he's going to take basic education in Cyprus for three years, and then he's going to come to Turkey, he's going to be coming to the University of Çukurova to study clinically. Okay, here's a story: the boy studied there for three years, turned around, came to Cyprus. Next thing you know, all the teachers are looking for a performance. God, there's such a thing as performance. He's surprised. Why, why is everyone chasing a performance? Does the teacher pursue performance? Of course not, he shouldn't run. Then the Minister of Health of this country will find out that he told the teachers: "My brother, we pay you a basic salary between 1,500 lira and $3,400, if you can live. There are payrolls, Mr. Health Minister comes out there, they get $20,000 from there, they get $15,000 from there. He says, I promise you, I'll bring everyone's payroll from the pratian doctor to the professor.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0052par0181	Bring the return funds.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0048par0182	I'll bring the return funds. When I resigned, when I left, there was 3,400 lira on my payroll, 3,400 liras. I resigned when I got a salary of 3,400 lira, which you can see in the records. I've never looked at a special patient at Mersin University in my entire college life, and I've never worked overtime for performance practice, and I've agreed to $3,400. He says if he doesn't, brother, he's sicker, and I'll give you a head full of money. I'm not kidding, that's really the case. Anyway, the boy says, "Well, let's have a performance performance performance, the teacher's doing business again, so I'll go after the teacher, maybe I'll learn something." He'll say, "He'll come to a clinic after that, and he'll see that there's no teacher at the clinic, there's no teacher." Where did this teacher go? Then one of them will say: "The understanding that allows Hakan to do additional work with an astronomical figure while performing a sacred mission, such as the ministry of the State of Turkey, doesn't give the teachers the right to do so. The teacher has taken legal leave for free. Mr. Secretary said yesterday that a thousand people have left here, if I can only mention him in a moment. Well, the teacher used his legal permission, too, for two years. When will he be back? Two years later. But the weird thing is, he doesn't know that people don't come back. Don't, don't... I'm going to make a very important point here. Now the Minister is getting his note, and he's going to come and say: "Aha CHP has objected to the full time again. No, Mr. Secretary, we're not defending the practice, we're not saying it verbally. We've offered you a law, and I know you're looking into that bill. The Republican People's Party favours full-time work, which has prepared its proposal of the law. If you're sincere, bring in the bill, we'll talk about it on the commission, and we'll spend it here. Give the money they deserve to the faculty, to the teachers, and that'll reflect on retirement, and then come back and ask for it. Oh, you're going to say: is there any income that doesn't reflect on retirement? Here, look at the capital of a congressman of yours just now! Look at the spinning capital! There's something he said. It doesn't reflect on retirement, and now it's been removed, Congressman. Now that return capital has been removed, it's called "performance"; if you work, you get it, if you don't work, you don't get it. No, I'm burning with a love of education. I'll spend time with the children, I'll spend time with the students. When you say, "Ooh, then you get your basic salary." If not, let him come out with an open heart, and the Minister is here to tell you, and I'll bring you the payroll and prove it from here. Now, the student from Cyprus has come here to spend the last three years here. He continues to train with the teachers, but he finds that most of the doctors in this hospital don't like this Minister, he's surprised. What if the Minister of Health of a country should not be loved at any party? He must be loved. Why don't you like it, brother? He asks the AKP people, "I know you're from AKP, you voted; why don't you like it?" They say that the Minister of Health says ugly things to us every chance he gets. They say that the Minister of Health calls us "the farmer," the physicians. Even though he's a physician, he goes out and says to the physicians, especially the professors. Then he says: "The Minister of Health says that we steal the doctors' money from the patients." He says, "How should we love this man?" He says, "When you're at the head of every microphone, the knife money says, every time you're at the head of a microphone, the physicians abuse the patients, the professors will come to you, and it'll be like this." He says, "This is what's going to happen." And he says, and he really provokes. I think he thinks everyone's like him. They say, "We don't like this Minister for this. I wish we could." The student is looking at the teachers, looking at what a minister says, and he's embarrassed, but who should be really ashamed? Now, here comes this student, doing his emergency internship at Çukurova University. An uncle comes in the middle of the night complaining of abdominal pain. Doctors and students -- they're also taking education -- they're getting a good look at it. They're looking for nothing important, uncle. They say it's gas pains. They send him home. Meanwhile, as he enters the computer, the student clicks on a place called the doctor's green field. What's this? It says this green area. It means it's not urgent or this patient... So? So we're going to do this, and the SGK is going to go, and then he's going to get a contribution from this guy. We're doctors, and we're going to die until we figure out if this guy has an emergency. We've examined him, we've pinched him, we've done it, we've done it, we've said, it's gas pains, we've diagnosed him. How dare we tell this man why you came to the emergency room and yours isn't an emergency. How would he know? Maybe he's got appendicitis. The guy came in scared of appendicitis. The one who can separate gas pain from appendicitis without studying, without an expert examination. Now we're going to get up, and we're going to tell this man that you're in the green field. Two days from now, the same student, the same uncle, is coming again. Welcome. Without saying anything, the uncle throws his fist at the student's eye. He asks, "What happened, uncle? What happened? How did you throw me in a place called the green field and cut me out of my salary?" Have you not feared God? I had a three-cent pension, you went to my stomach ache, you said green space, and you cut me off. For these reasons, for many other reasons, violence against physicians and health workers is increasing. Even the teachers are getting violent because of you. He's interning in different units. It turns out there's a 4/B nurse working on the subcontractor. What happened to equal wages for equal work? I'm looking at one nurse now, a civil servant; I'm looking at the other one, 4/B; I'm looking at the other one, this nurse subcontractor. They all have different salaries. How does this work? The equivalent fee for this equal work is only available in the AKP, even if it is. He says so. Here he comes now. He's doing a public health internship. He's in sixth grade. Medical people know that this internship has primary health care. This first step comes to the family clinic in health care. You have the honorary principles of medicine in mind of the student -- we raised him, too. He believes that this state, this Ministry of Health, will protect the health of the people under the duties entrusted to him by the Constitution, at least that's what he expects. He comes in, meets the family health center team. There's a nurse at the doctor's house, and she's very happy with it. He says it's nice, doctor, nurse... then the doctor pays for the secretary, the doctor pays for the building, the doctor pays for the chair, the doctor pays for the cleaning lady. He says, how do you raise money? The doctor says I can't raise money. Sometimes I do the cleaning work, sometimes my friends do it. One day he looks at this child from Cyprus, and all the patients in the family health centre have been stolen. The elder brother says, "Do you want to steal a patient?" Yes, it is. There are two patients left from 3,000 patients. Three or five hours later, it's back into the system, and after it's loaded, it turns out that someone's going in with the general manager's password, and I've already told you that in this General Assembly, he's getting all the patients' information. Any hists from the Ministry of Health? No. We've prepared a question motion. Any response? No. Why not? I don't know, I don't know. And then... it's possible to explain this later, this later. I'll tell you even longer if the Minister of Health wants to. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0053par0193	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. On behalf of the government, Minister of Health Recep Akdağ, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you are, Mr. Akdağ.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0054par0197	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. A deal we're negotiating is actually an agreement with the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus in Parliament. It'll provide a good opportunity. Our University of Çukurova is forming a campus in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, where an environment will be able to raise students. On the other hand, there is an exuberance for the education of students who will study in Çukurova and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. The students will receive part of their training there, and the rest will be taken in Çukurova. I congratulate both the Valuable President of Çukurova University and their valued employees, who led to this agreement, everyone who brought it to this point. Now, as this issue was discussed, there was talk of the Parliamentary platform, the TUBA, and then there was talk of the Ministry of Health, health practices in Turkey, the Full-Day Law. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, don't forget the date. I'm a friend of yours from college to politics, and I spent years in college, and then through politics, we serve our country, our people. TTUBA has an organisation in 1993. Now, it's not necessary to try to get the facts out of everyone's eyes when they're talking about it from here on the floor of the House. There is a government in the establishment of TÜBA (TİBA) then, the Council of Ministers appoints 10 members, then they select 10 members from within themselves, and from that day, members change within a closed caste system. A valuable speaker, speaking on behalf of this, walks out of here and gives a speech as if the job at the time was democratic. Do you really think people would miss that? Look, today the TÜBA has been transformed into a structure that scientists can easily enter, serve, represent, in a situation where elections have been diversified. Why don't we look at its historicality and talk about the fact that there's a small pool that never changes? Why are we trying to miss it in public? Dear lawmakers, now a lot has been said about our health policies from this bench, but when it comes to a first-degree service for the nation, of course, our saintly nation has shown it every time in the polls that it is the one who speaks. And from now on, we know you will. We come from an old system where a college professor, a medical faculty professor, a doctor, also has a practice, or he moves the practice into the university. I don't think our people have forgotten that. Here, the professors, the doctors, there was no sin, there was no crime, there was no mistake, but the past governments had led to the establishment of such a system, allowing the continuation of this system to continue. You're going to be a college professor, you're going to be a medical school, you're going to work at nine in the morning, after nine in the morning, you're going to your practice at eleven, twelve.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0055par0205	Mr. Secretary, are you saying it's not now?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0054par0206	While a valuable speaker was speaking here earlier, a valued congressman gave an example of a student's life, an example of a student's life.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0055par0207	So you're saying this isn't happening, that there's no money for knives or anything?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0054par0208	I wonder if our precious student went to the practice and took lessons from his teacher while the system was working like this.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0055par0209	They operated on the Prime Minister illegally in this country!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0054par0210	This has been going on for years, dear friends. If there's no practice, this time, somehow the practice moved into the hospital, the university hospital. It was called after-hours, then pulled in two, then pulled out at noon. I'll go to college, I'll serve as a citizen, this is the hospital of the university of the state. Where's E? How do I get to the teacher? Only if you pay for a private examination. How am I gonna get my MRI film, my C.T.? If you put money into the teacher for a private examination, for a private procedure. If I can't invest, if I'm poor, if I'm poor, if I'm a middle-income citizen, I'm sorry, you won't get any service from here. Dear friends, I'm afraid our medical schools have been turned into merchants. We can't ignore that fact now. It was the truth of Turkey, and our citizens have been through it for decades, and our students have been through it. Have you forgotten, dear friends, that a student of ours who graduated medical school in Antalya, a precious daughter of ours, at the graduation ceremony, I cannot deliver my parents to my friends who graduated from here. That was the work of that rotten system. If I find the teacher taking care of the patients he brought in from the practice by noon, and in the afternoon, in the name of private examination, special surgery, special procedure, if the teacher was left alone in the school's traditional commercial environment, would there be any education here? Is there any research here? We're changing this rotten system. Now, about that performance system. Our dear friend will bring the payroll here, of course he can. In our universities, at every university that has taken possession of this issue, today their valuable professors, even their assistants, began to receive a substantial amount of their labor from these additional payments, along with their payroll salaries. Many Anatolian universities have solved the problem, finished it. Shortly before that -- I give you my name -- I was visited by the esteemed chancellor of Malatya University, who came to me with the money he paid his teachers. A professor, a clinician friend of ours, who was a professor at medical school, had an additional payment average of 10,500 Turkish liras. Yeah, not every college is like that, not everyone's adapted to this structure yet, or has taken it that way. I'm not going to mention his name, but we're not going to take any more patients in one of our universities. We also had another medical school where they said, "We're not going to take any more patients." We need to decide which attitude to adopt here. Are we going to make our universities, medical schools hospitals a trading facility, where the money is taken from the citizens, and you're going to get service from them? Are we going to build a tradehouse called the government's university, the state's hospital, or will the state pay for its labor along with the salary of its teacher? That's what we'll decide. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, there's now been an imaginary scenario. Sir, the citizen came to the hospital, and they took him to the green field, and the next time he came in, he punched the student in the face. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't know that all patients are being scientifically triaged in an emergency room with green, yellow and red codes while they're being discussed, or if you're trying to keep this out of sight, you're going to make these misdeeds in front of people from the council bench. Yes, a citizen going to an emergency room must be separated from the condition and degree of his illness to the green, yellow and red triage. We're in our E.R. now doing this scientific survey, trying to get it done. Because if a patient who gets a green triage doesn't go into a specific area, or if it doesn't, or if the patients who get the green triage continue to fill the hospitals' emergencys, most of the time, then a patient who's in a really heavy condition, taking a code red, instead of taking a respiratory condition, I don't know, can't get a patient with a fever of 41 degrees, or a patient who's badly injured, in a way that needs to be treated. So, why did this patient with the green triage, our dear uncle in the story, punch the student in the nose? Is it because he paid five lira for the contribution? These people are not a nation that you express from this council bench. No citizen of ours, no elder of ours, is going to punch a student in the face with a five-dollar contribution. You don't know these people, you're making them talk in your head, you're on the council stand, and you're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0056par0217	How many doctors were killed, how many were beaten, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0054par0218	As long as you do this wrong, the people of this country, the people of Turkey, this great nation, will continue to stand behind the services of the EC PARTY, and you will do this wrong because you are taking the opposition in the wrong way, and it will not do any of us any good to take the opposition in the form of distorting the facts. Let's say, let's say, let's say a performance system comes in, we have to improve the system, but we need to make it more fair -- or all of what we're saying here is not wrong, all of it's right -- we have to give our physicians pros for retirement. You're absolutely right, because not just for our physicians, but for our other employees, the basic salaries, the incomes outside of the payroll, don't have to be fundamentally low on pensions. For some classes in Turkey, there are higher pension pensions with laws made in the past for some professions in the past, but today their medical salaries, pensions are really low. We must find a way to resolve this by hand, and we have begun to work with the public finance and social security agency, as instructed by our Prime Minister. But, again, if you don't want to condemn the citizen to the practice of the past rotten period -- yes, that name is not made by Health Minister Recep Akdağ -- by the name of the citizen -- to knife money or so on, you're going to stand right next to the day. If you're standing right next to the day, you're not taking your full-time applications to the Supreme Court. You wouldn't be able to set up a cabin next to the Supreme Court and carry it to the Supreme Court every chance you get. You've done this wrong.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0057par0221	You make a proper law. You're saying you don't make a proper law and don't go to the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0054par0222	Now, dear lawmakers, let's get to the other side. Look, performance means that the Department of Health has a performance system, where you give employees a basic salary, provide a basic income, and then on top of that, pay off their efforts by measuring the efficiency of their own labors or institutions. I believe that as a politician, a person who's been the Ministry of Health for nine years in this country, it's a righteous way. Again, we can and should develop the system for performance management, about performance payments. We need to make it as perfect as possible and make it as fair as possible, but it's the only way we can solve this huge workload in Turkey. Today it's this new idea of public administration that we've established if our citizens don't bow down at the doors of hospitals. The Ministry of Health has made a pioneer out of it. In fact, I think that in many areas of the public, that performance management should be revealed and efficiency should be increased. No one should oppose performance or efficiency. You know, it wouldn't be fair to pay everyone the same salary and then separate enough employees from less employees. I'm not going to name a country, but I'm seeing a health minister in one of the countries we applied for and visited while preparing the Change in Health Program. I said that you've built a good system. I'm not saying it's a country ruled by an understanding of the Soviet Socialist Republic, with some old understanding. You have a good system, but wouldn't it be better for the patients to choose their physicians? The Minister gave me the answer, and he said: "Every student in our country has a standard and good medical education, and every doctor gives a standard and good medical education, and everyone does the same thing. Guys, people aren't like that. People can perform differently. As a matter of fact, those who don't take money from a citizen in clinics and oppose the system's work over the years, who don't see the matter as a transaction of money, who ignore the victimhood of a citizen here, are trying to make the state's payments look like they're on the wrong track in some way today. We're doing the right thing. We're not going to run over our citizens, precious lawmakers. As AK PARTY governments, we've always stood by the poor, we've always stood by the poor, we've always stood by the middle-income citizen...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0058par0227	Which poor guy, which poor guy?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0054par0228	And after that, when the honorable people of this country need health care, they will continue to receive this health care, and we will continue to develop this system. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0059par0231	Thank you, Mr. Akdağ.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0060par0232	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0059par0233	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0060par0234	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has been very critical about our party going to the Supreme Court. I just want to give you a quick answer.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0059par0235	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0060par0238	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you can't make policy over health, it can't fit in morality, decency, politics, but right now, you insist on saying that. You've always stood by the poor...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0061par0241	Yes!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0060par0242	Do the rights to the Prime Minister's health be given to him, or did the Prime Minister have special advantages? Tell me about it. Is it possible for any citizen to do that to the Prime Minister?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0061par0243	Of course it's done, of course it's done.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0060par0244	Get over it, Mr. Secretary! Who are you telling? Get over it!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0061par0246	You get him, you get him!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0060par0247	Two: I just got my hands on him yesterday, and he's asking for $30,000, and he can't operate. There are hundreds of them every day. I'll let you know if you want. Third: As a man, you will make law in accordance with the law, according to the Constitution, and we will not go to the Constitutional Court. When we go to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court doesn't accept all of it, it rejects all of it. If you've crossed the opposition barrier, there's the President's obstacle, and if you're over it, there's the Constitutional obstacle. Of course, there will be forces that want to brake for power, that's democracy. So, Mr. Secretary, why did you become a supporter of the French Constitutional Court? Has it become 60? Has it become 70? How long has it been? You remember, don't you? Do you remember how in the past few weeks, those French lawmakers and senators, how you became so eager to get rid of this foreign policy we've been doing, this bad foreign policy we've been doing, to get rid of the French Constitutional Court?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0062par0252	You're mixing apples with pears, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0060par0253	Do you remember this? We didn't expect any help from the French Supreme Court. (EC PARTY RINGS) We hoped for help from the Turkish Constitutional Court. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0063par0257	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0064par0258	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0063par0259	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0064par0260	Mr. President, the Minister of Health has misled the public by saying that the Republican People's Party is against the Full Day Law. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a correction.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0063par0262	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0064par0265	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, Mr. Health Minister has misled you by saying that the Republican People's Party does not want the full day, but has taken it to the Constitutional Court. He didn't listen to what I was talking about here, and he's in a bad way for her. I don't want the Minister to get in bad shape. The Republican People's Party has proposed the law on full-time work to the Parliament months before. Look at the records. If you can afford it, bring it here and we'll talk. Now, while we're at it, I'm going to make a few points.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0065par0269	What have you guys been up against?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0064par0270	Let's talk in return. Let's talk in return.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0065par0271	You're new, you'll see them.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0064par0272	I'm not new, Mr. Secretary, I'm at least your age, and...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0066par0273	Don't talk to each other. Mr. Orator, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0064par0275	And I served this country for thirty years.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0067par0276	You're new to Congress.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0064par0277	But I served with honor, one thing he didn't do. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I don't know whose honor... I never called anyone dishonorable. I don't know if you think you're right for yourself, Congressman. Now, don't keep misleading the people. I know enough medicine to know what a triage is.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0068par0281	If you knew, you wouldn't have made a fuss.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0064par0282	My question to you is, when a citizen comes to the ER who doesn't know if the abdominal pain is urgent, and you throw it in the green field, you get paid for it, if it fits in with humanity, you come out here and say it. That's what I want. Of course, triage should be done, of course, red area, emergency patients should leave, and I have no objection to that. Violence: You are the one who forced our people to commit violence. Your policies. That's what I'm saying. Say no violence and get out. Doctors are being killed. Look, I'm not talking about hitting, I'm not talking about slapping. Doctors are being shot to death; it happened two days ago. After that, you say: "Our people do nothing. " My brother does what he does, he kills. That's what I'm saying, it's in the papers, something that proves it.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0069par0284	Isn't there anyone in your era who kills doctors?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0064par0285	But why are our beautiful people doing this? Because you provoke them. Let's put it together. You're saying. Oh, my God! You've been in power for ten years. You couldn't fix it yourself for ten years, and you're still waiting? Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0070par0287	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. [[Continue]] On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0071par0295	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the University of Çukurova to establish a campus area in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and then to open faculty or faculty there. Of course, we have no objection to that, so whatever college it is, if the law, within the framework of law, contributes to science, art, culture without any other purpose, it's supported. But speaking of Cyprus, I'd like to say a few words: Since 1974, Cyprus has been actively concerned and interested in Turkey's economy, politics, cultural life, everything. Before that, of course, but after 1974, an actual situation arose, 38 years passed. Finally, again, with regard to the passing of the founding President of Cyprus, Mr Rauf Denktas, again, Cyprus was spoken of, and almost all the praying men, present and old of Turkey's politics, all went to Cyprus, and the ceremonies were performed. Dear friends, we've said it many times. No matter how much we cover up some issues, big problems, big issues don't work out, these problems grow more and more like a snowball, like an avalanche. One of these avalanches is Turkey's Cyprus policies. When we bring up some questions, when we ask them, unfortunately, they get uncomfortable, and immediately, the issue of the national case comes forward. Now I ask: What is the strategic main policy of the Republic of Turkey on Cyprus? Is Cyprus a military base? Is Cyprus an island that must be kept under Turkey's control over the security issue? Do Turkey have such policies as trade, tourism, industry, free markets? Dear friends, here we are, in order to give them proper answers, we need to talk here for hours, and we need to conduct a congressional investigation. At the point where today -- no one should be offended -- Cyprus has become a casino center, an prostitution centre, an economic swamp, and also a destination for international drug trafficking. This is the result of 38 years of politics. It's not like that, you exaggerate. If you say you're wrong, please come with all the information and documents available to the state, with all the national intelligence documents, with all the economic data, with all the financials, with all the financial expenses, why Cyprus has become like this, and why is it like this? A couple billion dollars a year goes missing in that black hole, no one answers. Come, let's talk. When we say this, it's a national case. What do you want to do? Are you a traitor? Dear friends, if we do not make these assessments of Cyprus, it will continue to become a problem in international policy, and in the same way, financially, culturally and morally, the problem will continue to be at the feet of Turkey. Where was Cyprus today, where did it come from? What economic situation is the Republic of Cyprus in, and what economic situation is Northern Cyprus in? Where does the money go? How do you plan to close this black hole, to be the center of attraction? What's your master plan? Unfortunately, there's no mass discussion of any of this, just silence and a national case. Dear friends, this can't go on like this, and there's more going on there today. Around 10,000 citizens of the Kurdish Republic of Turkey are studying in Cyprus, and there are serious pressures on them; last month 14 Kurdish students, Turkish Republic citizens, Kurdish students, were deported without any serious documents, court and investigation. As long as we don't talk about it again -- as I said at the beginning of my conversation -- these events will continue to keep us locked up by growing and walking in our feet. Thirty-eight years of accounting must be given by all governments and, in particular, the current government in the last ten years. What did you do? Tell me, and how many billion dollars is the total amount of money spent on Cyprus so far? We ask none of these questions with questions, but we can't get straight, serious answers, and they're rolling away. Finally, dear friends, I would like to express my feelings about Mr. Denktas' death and the funeral. I should've said that on the same day or a few days after that day, but I kept it today because I was worried that it might be misunderstood or that it might trigger different sensibilities. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to convey these feelings in writing to you as long as there's time for them. Weddings are important to us and funerals are important to us. Who comes in, who doesn't come in, how they behave, how they dress, how they're dressed, how they're upset enough, how they're sad enough, how they're moved, everything, almost everything is carefully monitored at weddings, at funerals. I've been paying attention to those details ever since I was a kid. I'm not going to tell you about weddings today. I'd like to tell you a few of the hundreds of funerals I've attended, a few that have not been erased from my memory and hurt me, and I'd like to compare these deaths to the funerals of some Muslims who died on the same dates. The Sheikh Professor Dr. Assad Cosan, of the Alexanderpaşa Congregation, died in a car accident in Australia. Najmudtin Erbakan was the leader of a cult with hundreds of celebrities and important people from Turgut Özal. The cult had private schools, hospitals, television channels, and many other companies. The body was brought from Australia and buried in a magnificent ceremony. In addition to tens of thousands of citizens, the well-known communities, cults, foundations, associations, organisations and party leaders who were known in Turkey attended the funeral. Pages of newspaper ads were published. Izzettin Yıldırım, who died shortly after Assad Coşan, was the leader of the Zahra Foundation. As far as I can tell, he was a sincere Muslim, religious, and has never been married, and he had no children, so he had no personal life other than to tell and spread his faith. His life was quite modest. On 29/12/999, he was abducted from the house where he was staying after the prayer of Teravih on a Ramadan night, known as Hezbollah, and was killed in 28/01/2000, about a month later. The most interesting thing is that two weeks after Hezbollah leader Huseyin Velioğlu was killed by police in Beykoz, his body was found and was found by reports of the Forensic Medical Association that he had just been killed a few hours ago. Later, the Hezbollah members, who were referred to as witnesses, agreed to kidnap him, but refused to kill him. Two weeks after the murder of Velioğlu, it has not been announced by the state who killed Izzettin Yıldırım, but has been listed in history as a victim and a victim. From the morning of the night of his abduction, Izzettin Yıldırım's companions did their part. I personally diagnosed the funeral at the morgue of the Istanbul coroner's office. There was no famous and important zevat at the funeral of Izzettin Yıldırım, at Eyüp Sultan Mosque, and no one came except a few of the Islamic groups and congregations. In 2008 and 2009, there were funerals that impressed me, the funerals of Genghis Aytmatov, the famous Kurdish novelist Mehmet Long, Muhsin Yazıoğlu, the filmmaker Halit Refiğ and Abdulmelik Fırat, and last but not least this year, the funeral of Mr Rauf Denktaş, who we lost last month. I'll tie these together if you'll just be patient. Genghis Aytmatov, the famous Kyrgyz poet; listen, it is controversial how much he is involved with the diet, whether he is Muslim in his own personal life or even faith. One of Turkey's largest Islamic community's most important people traveled thousands of miles from Istanbul to Kyrgyzistan to attend the funeral. So was Muhsin Yazıoğlu; I was seeing him, and we had a friendship within the scope of friendship. God rest his soul. Every rightist, nationalist -- in a nail -- the most important figures of the religious groups walked behind the coffin wrapped in the Turkish flag, carrying soldiers. The leader of Turkey's largest congregation put out pages of ads in the newspapers. On the night of the death of Khalid Refiğ, I was at a meeting. Another very important member of a very important congregation attending the same meeting, without even waiting for the next day's funeral, I must make sure that I pay my respects to the family tonight. On grounds of the meeting, he left and went on foot to pay his respects. Condolences were more important to us than our very important meeting. The funeral of Mr. Rauf Denktas was very near. I'm not going to tell you for long. From Mr. Abdullah Gul, our Prime Minister Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan to Mr. Bulent Arinc, all the important people of our state, our politics and society either went to the funeral themselves and went under the coffin, or they spoke about it from the council stand, like Mr. Bulent Arinc. Now, friends, I'd like to finish this speech by giving examples of the funerals of a few other friends of mine. As for Mehmed Long. He was already as religious as Genghis Ayttatov and Halit Refig, even our -- in a nail -- by our Islamists, however they measured it! The literary value -- again in quotes -- was controversial! In a language that no one even acknowledges exists, there's no value in writing novels and stories in Kurdish! Yaşar Kemal, who attended his funeral, who cared for him, and the Messenger of Sharifuttin, and thousands like me, were already troubled as he was! Abdulmelik Fırat died in a hospital room in Ankara on a misty autumn of 2009. He did not want to leave his village, but wanted to die in Kolhisar. When it got too heavy, they took the children to Ankara for consent. He didn't even want to be treated in his last days. He made a will, he didn't want a military ceremony, he didn't want the Turkish flag or the Kurdish flag. They covered his coffin with a covering, written only on my hand; inna llahhi and inna calihi raciun. What is the significance of flags and banners, other than the scriptures of the Lord, when man goes to his Lord? We have come from God, and we will return to him. It all worked out the way he wanted it to. The glorious elders of Ankara, their ministers, came to the hospital in the middle of the night or a little more cautious, expressed their condolences on the phone; they refused to attend the funeral during the day. His whole life, they didn't even want to be in the same picture frame as someone else's coffin. There was no Prime Minister Erdogan at the funeral, there was no President Mr. Gul, there was no Mr. Bkent Arinc, Mr. Necmettin Erbakan -- which they did for a time -- and there was no politics. The funeral prayer at Hınis Kolhisar was attended by the villagers who were the disciples and soldiers of their fathers and grandfathers Sheikh Sait Efendi; the poor, the oppressed and the victims; the poor, the villagers; the Magians of Palu (Palhul) and the young, the Piran (Guleman), the Karabıtin, Karaçoban (Karaç), the Karaçoban (Karaban), the Taqman (Tekman) and the Mush (Tekman) and the many other places. The noon prayer was performed in the village square on the yellow autumn grass. It's the most humble and poorest prayer I've had in years. His uncle, Sheikh Sait Efendi, explained the funeral prayer in Kurdish, Turkish, Zazaca and Arabic. A complete unity and unity table and connotations, yes, they're just one-on-ones. A funeral headed towards the peak of a mountain about four kilometers away, where his great grandfather, Sheikh Mahmoud, was also a methfun. And behind them are thousands, and out of the mouth of thousands: Allahu akbar, Allahu akbar, Allahu akbar, and all praise be to Allah. Yeah, a few funerals and a few funerals. Just as Jonah said: ▪ A strange person died, After three days, They drink cold water, Put it in a weird spot. What's the point of right-wingers, nationalists, glorious cult leaders, ministers, prime ministers? Brother Abdulmek has never cared for them in his entire life. A large number of Islamic scholars say that a person's faith is half gone because of his wealth, because of his position and position. One of the leading principles of Islamic religion is that love and hatred are for God, that vanity and pride are not involved. Yes, Abdulmelik Abi lived like this all his life and I remembered a poem by Necip Fazil. Not the last day, my friend, my wreath, my cannon car, Let four faithful men take me away. Yes, my dear friends, we've come all the way from Cyprus, Cypriot politics, Mr. Denktas' funeral, we've taken a tour of the horizon. I guess I didn't disrespect the zulfuyah, but when we don't evaluate all of this -- including the Cyprus policy, including these funerals -- when you can't put the curve right, when we can't put the curve right, there's no way that Turkey can find the peace that Turkey is looking for today, and there's no way that it can't find the brotherhood. Shame on this sorority if there's a double standard even at funerals. Peace be upon the oppressed. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0072par0331	Thank you, Mr. Tan. Ankara MP Nurdan Şanlı on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Glorious.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0073par0335	Mr. President, I have taken my solemn pledge on behalf of myself to confirm the Framework Protocol for the Campus Building of Çukurova University, number 67, in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. I salute the General Assembly. Precious lawmakers include campus medical schools and dentistry schools, which the University of Çukurova, one of our country's largest state universities, is considering establishing in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. The training campus of Çukurova University in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus will be co-operated with the Turkish Republic of Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Çukurova University has the largest hospital in our country's south and southeast region, medical school and dental school. The purpose is to use medical and dental schools at Çukurova University's hospitals and applications in Adana, without investing in hospitals. This bill envisions three years of basic medical training for the medical school on the campus of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and three years of internship on the Adana campus; three years of basic dental training for the dental school on the campus of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and two years of internship on the Adana campus. This form of education is an ideal model for our students to grow much better, and it will be encouraging for our young people who are preparing for the test. With the framework protocol we are discussing, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus has pledged to provide the envisioned incentives and exemptions for state and foundation universities regarding the facility and activities of the campus. The campus the University of Çukurova will build in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus wishes our country and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus well.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0074par0341	Thank you, Mr. Glorious. Bart's MP Yilmaz Bronze... no. Moving on to QA. We're 20 minutes out. Ten minutes to questions, members of lawmakers, and ten minutes to answer. So I'm going to take turns making a promise to our lawmakers who have entered the system. If you ask your questions clearly, we'll save more time. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0075par0347	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, a cult member has recently raided a hospital in Şanliurfa, which has been published in the press. Has there been an investigation? My second question: in the extra payment system based on performance -- it was in the media today -- is that a Turkish doctor gets a Nobel Prize of 140 lira. If a few take the Nobel Prize, the reward will be combined. Now, does a member of parliament who doesn't like an 11 billion lira salary and interprets 200 billion liras on television have the justice of a Turkish doctor who won a Nobel Prize for his additional television commentator with a salary received by an MP who didn't participate in the 3° of the 4 commission meetings, who didn't have a question motion and a research proposal on 35 open ballots? Is this a balance of wages for the Justice and Development Party's schedule, philosophy? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0076par0351	Thank you, Mr. Slim. Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0077par0353	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Minister of Health said that when he responded, college hospitals became a trading facility. I'm speaking from here to the Turkish nation and from here to the great Parliament: is it not a tradehouse, if an MRI service, CT service, radiology service, physical therapy service, dialysis service, emergency services, laboratory service, intensive care is purchased from private? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0078par0356	Thank you, Mr. Firat. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0079par0358	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I wanted to ask you about your speech yesterday, but you left. And today you had another conversation of the same nature. I'll repeat my question for him. Every time you talk on a platform, you say old-time, new-term, and it's like you're saying that the health system in Turkey has been restructured, completely modernized, the old one's very bad, but you don't really base it on any of the numbers. The bottom line of this is, you know how much spending is being done, how many times before you have been spent, and how much more time has the death rate and treatment improved. Can you put that in the middle, please? Other than that, there's no medical significance to hospital services, especially hotel services, and you know very well. Let's base this on numbers. What's mortality, what's the rate of improvement in heart operations in bed treatment, let's talk about it.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0080par0362	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0081par0364	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as you know, in our country, dental and dental problems include 75 percent of the population. In the beginning, it causes heart disease, high risk, and many diseases. Dental and dental diseases are considered preventable diseases. I think private clinics should be used as well as public use in this public struggle. While receiving services from private health services in general medicine, dental clinics have been forgotten. 16,000 dentists are waiting to contribute to this community. When will buying services become life? That's what I want to ask you. At performance, 30 per cent salary must be reversed in the 70 per cent bonus equation. We've never opposed performance, we just want this equation to be reversed. We don't have any objections at all to the full day. Our objection is to reflect the rights of equity on retirement, to create a more decent working system. Thank you for listening to me. Thank you, Mr. Öpün. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0082par0371	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the district of Dziziçi, Osmaniye Province, has a population of nearly 100,000 people, and the state hospital in this district has worked without intensive care for a long time in the past few months. We don't have enough ambulances and enough ambulance drivers, so our patients are facing serious problems. Now the ICU is working on one bed, and due to lack of equipment and staff, the ambulances are still in trouble, no drivers. Can you arrange that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0083par0374	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0084par0376	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, there is news in the press that doctors and nurses from abroad will be brought in. How many doctors and nurses did you plan to bring from which country? Have you done any work on it? What's your preliminary work on this? How many doctors and nurses do you predict from which countries you will bring? Another question is, you've removed the chiefs of the clinic, removed the chiefs, appointed them as educators, and you're planning to make them all contractual. That way, the safety of the clinic chiefs, the assistant chiefs, will be gone. You put a coordinator on top of them. These coordinators can also be an expert, an expert in the head of a professor, and manage clinics without exception. We're gonna do some work on this...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0085par0380	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. Mr. Crescent Tiger...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0086par0382	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, we know that the health care system that your government has brought has lost the trust of the citizen to physicians and health workers, and that I can get more money for performance from physicians and health workers. We know that in a time when health workers are looking at it rationally, their job security is reduced. We also know that during the final phase of this frame, there has been an increase in violence and violence in the E.R. Did you get the ratio of that? That's one of the questions I'm curious about. Two: Do you find it right to triage and then send bills to some people because of the fact that the number of patients in emergency services is not a real emergency? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0087par0386	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0088par0388	Mr. Secretary, there is serious environmental pollution in the Dilovase region of Kopeeli, and a very serious cancer disease, depending on this one, but it is planned for coal-organized industrial territory in a way where coal dust will collapse on a hill that is not wind-in-the-wind in the same area. Will you also be working on the removal of the Organised Industrial Zone and the removal of the formations that would cause cancer? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0087par0390	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0089par0392	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm one of the 105 Republican People's Party MPs who went to Van. I've been there three times. There's an Education and Research Hospital, a State Hospital. What kind of surgeries can be performed in this hospital? Can surgery be done? Is 500 patients in the service of bed capacity? In addition, one of the common health problems in the tent cities we visit is intense, many upper respiratory diseases and parasitic diseases, especially in children. What is being done about it? What about health care in tent cities? When will the tent cities rise?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0090par0395	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0091par0397	Thank you, Mayor. I'm asking our minister a question: Amasya Merzifon Kara Mustafa Pasha Hospital is a wonderful physical hospital, a beautiful hospital for their labor. However, the hospital lacks a lot. We have one pediatrician, one neurosurgeon, seven dentists. The O.R.'s a mess, the lights aren't on, the tables are really bad. Are you planning on healing these? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0092par0400	Thank you, Mr. Clumsy. Mr. Hasip Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0093par0402	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, after family medicine... a village in the District of Demirköy is 3,000 in the winter but has a population of more than 50,000 in the summer. The only physician at the clinic is taken to Demirköy district after the practice of family medicine. There's no doctor at the clinic right now. Without a doctor, there was a state of closure, and there was a lack of doctors here, especially in a village of about fifteen villages. Is that the case with family medicine? Do they have to be in the county? Or is there also an app here? That's what I wanted to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0094par0405	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0095par0407	Dear President, thank you for the questions of our friends. They asked a question about an incident that took place in a hospital in Şanlıurfa. There was a problem with the administrators in this hospital. We've ordered the governorship to investigate this problem in the province. However, the members of the cult, which you have expressed in the press, have entered the hospital. In terms of the initial information that has come to us -- the examination should be completed -- in fact, it's not really reflective, because of the conflict between two different families or different groups of the region as a result of their own structure, because they are facing each other in the hospital. In this performance-based system, a person who receives the Nobel Prize will be given 140 lira. We have made a statement to the press today regarding the matter. In fact, regulations on how to distribute additional payments on performance in our universities are being made, a framework prepared by the SEC, by regulations provided by universities in this framework. So the colleges decide what performance points are set here, what are they going to be, what are they going to be, what are they going to be, what are they going to be, what are they going to be, what are they going to be, what are they going to be, what are they going to be, what are they going to be? We, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as legislature and executive, have made a decision as a government to determine the upper borders on these additional payments. We set the highest limits we can take, we make the law here, we bring you the bill. And then, according to this, the SEC and universities make their own decisions. If really, in such a subsidiary, a Nobel Prize-winning individual has been scored for 140 liras, it has been very wrong. But this has nothing to do with my Ministry, the Ministry of Health, or the government's practices. Besides, it's impossible for a Nobel Prize to be evaluated by such performance points. I mean, a Nobel Prize-winning researcher, a scientist, should be rewarded with a great deal of rewards, and by Turkey, by our universities. I think you should talk to that congressman of ours about ours here, so don't expect me to answer him, it wouldn't be very appropriate.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0096par0412	I'm talking and he won't come, so I'll talk to him.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0095par0413	If you're talking, he'll give you an answer when he gets here, so it's settled. I didn't say colleges are now a business, my dear Congressman, but I answer the question of Mr. Fırat. The universities, especially medical school hospitals, were made into trading houses. This is the kind of scheme that the past was, so everyone knows it, and there's no one in the world who doesn't know it. I know as a college medical faculty professor, that some of my dear friends come from college, and they know, you know by citizen, what happens to you when you take your patients. Now we're changing this system. The whole point is to turn this system into a more just, more righteous system. There's no difference between a citizen and a public hospital. A question like that was asked. In public hospitals, services are provided to our citizens for free, and they only receive a $5 share for the examination. I've expressed what this was intended by earlier questions or by statements made on the council bench. This $5 is an unnecessary contribution to avoid hospitals, because we can go to our family doctor for our day-to-day diseases. Furthermore, these contributions are not taken from chronic patients, patients with permanent illness -- such as diabetics, heart patients, cancer patients -- are not taken from them, Dear Congressman. Mr. Kusoglu, we have the right, of course. Some of our friends have also testified that we've been in power for ten years, nine years, of course there's an old era and a new era. If it weren't for an old era and a new era, our citizen wouldn't be standing behind the AK PARTY so much during the tenth year at the end of the ninth year. So remember before, those part coalition governments would have completed their lives in a year, a year and a half, if you didn't know better in two years. Why is this Turkish nation, our beloved nation, standing behind so many AK PARTYs? There's a whole new semester for him. And what does that mean in terms of medical expenses? What's a new term? We are a government that has tripled health spending in Turkey, and we are proud of it, but I want to stress this in particular: in terms of public money, the amount that we've spent on health has tripled, compared with other non-interest expenditures of the public. There's been some misinformation in the public opinion about this, leading to confusion. Turkey has grown, our budget has grown, and, of course, an important area such as health should take its place. If we hadn't succeeded, if our economy hadn't improved, if our government hadn't cared about our Prime Minister's health, I couldn't have done any of this as Minister of Health, I couldn't have done it. The health money has gone from public budget to other public spending, and we will continue to use it efficiently and efficiently. There's about 600 dollars -- that's changing according to the rules, and the last year's accounts haven't come out yet, so I can't say for sure -- there's a total amount of health spending per person. We spend close to $450 of this in public, 50 of the rest investing in private sectors, and the citizen spends $100 on himself, per person, average. For him, we're talking about an efficient system. For example, what happened to the mother and the baby's death from the most important indicators? That is a very true question. We're always comparing OECD countries. The road of the OECD countries in the mother deaths between 1960 and 1990 has taken place in the last eight years in the Republic of Turkey. The OECD took its route from 1960 to 1990 in infant deaths in approximately 25 to 30 years, within eight years of the Republic of Turkey. The death of the mother was drawn from 70 to 15 in 100,000 to 15 in 100,000, from 30 in a thousand to 10 in a thousand. These improvements, these improvements, will continue in the coming years. Regarding the question that Mr. Öğümümül has asked about our dentists and dentists' practice, we, the Ministry of Health, are trying to establish an interface between dentists and Social Security. In fact, as Minister of Health, I'm all for taking this service out of dental practice, but in the end, it requires an insurance job, and it also requires spending money here. Like I said, I'm trying to create an interface. At the moment, the fixed salary for our specialists in Turkey is, let's say, fixed income -- some of it comes from rotating capital, but it's fixed income -- is fixed income and additional payment rates are roughly equal to each other, Dear Congressman. There's about $3,400 of fixed income, and about $3,400 of what I'm talking about, I'm talking about an average of our attendings -- additional payments.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0097par0423	Not in the teeth, though.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0095par0424	In fact, so is the tooth, because we've just fixed an additional payment on the payroll. The return comes from the capital, but it's a constant money, so it's about 50/50. I also expressed in my speech about the rights of autonomy, especially about retirement, and we really need to make improvements here. To his question about Osmaniye, Mr. Türkoğlu said: Let me have this examined, and if there are any shortcomings, we will welcome them.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0098par0427	Mr. Secretary, this is the end of our time.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0095par0428	Is it over, sir?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0098par0429	Time's up, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0095par0430	So let me just say that I'll answer the rest of the questions in writing. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit02spe0098par0432	Thank you. Congressmans, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0098par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 66th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Talks on the Dair Legislature Bill and the Foreign Commission Report had been completed on the adoption of the Framework Protocol in the University of Çukurova's Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (Turkish Republic). CUCUROVA UNIVERSITY KKTC/CAMPUS BUILDING CENTER PROTOCOLN PRODUCTION PRODUCTION PRODUCTION The approval of the Framework Protocol of the University of Chokurova, which was signed on November 15, 2009 in Nicosia, was approved. On behalf of the groups, Adana MP Umit Özgüşmiş on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Ozgim.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0099par0010	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the University of Çukurova on the Campus Building Bill in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. On this occasion, I salute you. One thing I'd like to share with you before we get to the point is the matter of the Civil Code change that has been put on the agenda before this bill. I just want to say that I'm glad. I hope this isn't a temporary delay, and hopefully with a push, like last week, it won't be on the agenda of the House again, and we won't be able to relive the events we had last week that we didn't want to be in, that we didn't want to be in, because I'm afraid you guys pushed us into this last week, and you didn't leave us any other space. You have forced us to defend this bench, to defend the honor of this bench. During the previous period, you seized the press in Turkey. You gave part of the press as a loan to a group of people, citizens, and we gave it to you, and you took some of the press out. After that, you pressured some press organizations, intimidated them with threats. And then you cut down on Parliament TV, where we can express ourselves to the public, bring proposals, and discuss the proposals. And lastly, you've brought the amendment to the Charter, which will eliminate the opposition's ability to express itself here during the hours of Parliament TV. Dear friends, this is the most sacred place in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This is the voice of the nation of Turkey, the voice of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but also the voice of the nation. Until a day ago, when we greeted here in the hallway, greeted our friends, worked with the commissions, when we met one day later in the hallway, we saw the precious deputies turning their heads on different sides. Now, look, in the Turkish Trade Law, there's a matter of proportions, so it's enough votes, it's enough decisions. Now, in companies, in limited companies, in corporations, in anonymous companies, you can make some decisions by 25 percent, with some decisions by 51 percent, some by 75 per cent, but in limited companies, in multi-companies, with partners who reassert them or lose them by 100 per cent, the number of decisions is 100 per cent. So if you're going to increase capital in a limited company, if you're going to change the type of company in an anonymous company, even if you have 99 percent of the vote, you can't and you can't. If we think about this in parallel with it, you have 50 percent of the vote, but there are other partners here, they have 50 percent of the shareholders here, and if you limit the right to speak, you can't make those decisions with 51 percent, 60, 70. Let's leave the opposition parties here, even if there are one, two independent members, to sum up their voices, to sum up their time of speech, to participate in their legislative activities, if you're going to narrow it down, then you have to compromise, do it with compromise. I hope this postponement comes through compromise, and if you don't have a change of regulations, you'll see that you're wrong in the coming days, if you expect to be able to intimidate us by attacking us here on Wednesday, night after night and night after hour. I mean, we come from a tradition. On September 12th, in the prisons of September 12th, our hands are tied, we are not submissive to torture, torturers, and we hold up our dignity. If we face brute force here today, we will not yield to this because you are eight, ten, 20 more, but we will continue to defend the honor of this bench. I hope you can't call that determination. Çukurova University wants to open a campus in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and the law has arrived. Of course, we can't argue with that. Çukurova University is one of Turkey's most important universities today, which is also Turkey's pupil. He has 14 universities, 4 universities of applied sciences, 12 universities of applied sciences, 1 conservatory, 3 institutes, 25 research centres, nearly 2,000 professors and almost 40,000 students. In particular, authority in health care is an expert university in the region. Of course, it is beneficial for him to open a campus in Northern Cyprus based on his knowledge, his savings, his experience. There are three benefits: one will be an economic contribution to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Secondly, students who are currently unable to find quotas at Turkish universities are educated there by going to Balkan countries or Caucasus countries, thus going to Cyprus to be educated. Third, the University of Çukurova will contribute economically to the state when it does not receive sufficient funding. But we want to say that what's important in Turkey right now is not to increase the number of universities, but to increase the quality of universities, to improve the quality of universities. Unfortunately, the quality of universities has gradually deteriorated since September 12th, and in your day the old practices continue. In democratic countries, not all over the world, but in democratic countries, it is also the freedom to express the autonomy, the autonomy of universities, the fiscal independent autonomy, the freedom of thought, and the ideas it brings out in the developed countries. To do that in Turkey, the Higher Education Board must be removed first. When you came to power in 2002, the 2002-2003 programme said that you are a political government that is now complaining more about the OPJ than we are, and that your government programme will be a forum where many of the universities will be reformed and many of the ideas will be freely debated. But my friend just told me that when you complained the most about the NGO at the time, when you were now taking over the SEC, you started using the RSR, destroying the democratic autonomy of universities, the scientific autonomy. A university of 2,000 people and a university of 40,000 people, a university of foundation and a university of public university cannot be run under the same roof, or one university professor of 6 who applied for the rectory at the university receives 1,200 votes, while another university teacher gets 300 votes, which goes to the YÖK, which puts the minimum voting area at the top of the list, and sends the president to the president, who is close to the congregation, who takes someone close to us, and puts him in charge of the university. When there's a guy who's got 1,200 votes on one side, and he's got 150, 200 votes on the other, and one of us is in charge of the university, you should think about the dignity of that rector.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0100par0017	But you did it best.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0101par0018	You did it, too. That's right.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0099par0019	Now, this isn't defense. At least in that period, if this was done in the past period, it would not be a simultaneous example. There is a general principle, which you can sit down and correct.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0101par0020	Then don't criticize.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0099par0021	If I had time, I'd explain what you said in the government program. I'll explain what colleges are going to be like, your complaints about the PTA, but my time is running out right now, so we'll talk again some other time. Of course, it's no different from September 12th, when the persecution of students at universities is not just at the same time. Then again, you were very complaining, but today you've come to the same point. Look -- last week it was spoken here -- students who hanged Yilmaz Southern posters were suspended from school. I've just told you, AKP's Government Programme has 82, 83, there will be free thinking in universities. There are logics there. Eleven films of Yilmaz South have now been placed in the public archive by the Ministry of Culture. Look, at Pamukkale University, you expelled them for a month because the students protested with theater. We also protest, and you also protest. If you take away the ability of students to protest against the OPJ -- by theater, by sketch, or by such events -- we all know how to protest by going to other forms of organization in the past. Another wish for students is free education. Yeah, if it's a crime to ask for free education or to open up a sign of education without money, I commit that crime, and our party commits that crime because we, the Republican People's Party's program, have colleges without money on the basis of social equality, and we want free education. I signed them all by writing my name, name, name, title, because their fathers, mothers, give taxes to create equal opportunities, equal opportunities, social justice for their children until the children come to college. Yeah, free education. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So if the kids are going to jail, if they're going to be punished, we're willing to take the punishment.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0102par0029	Mr. Ozgimi, thank you. Adana MP Ali Halaman on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0103par0033	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the law on the establishment of the campus of Çukurova University and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, whose number is 67. I salute you all. When it's called Cyprus, Rauf Denktas comes to mind, I won't be able to pass him by with mercy. Again, I bless our soldiers who were killed yesterday in Şırnak Uludere. Çukurova University is located between 14 faculty, 4 higher schools, 13 vocational institutes, 1 state conservatory, 3 institutes, 25 research practice centres and the developed universities of our country. With the importance of teaching and research, Çukurova University, which aims to bring qualified individuals to our country with its libraries and labs, is 10km away from the main city centre, where Seyhan teaches and teaches in greens by the dam lake. The University of Çukurova is a place where about 35,300 students, including 1,871 professors, 32,700 licenses, a master's degree and 2,600 PhDs, are employed in education and teaching. At our university, students from various European countries and Middle Eastern countries study at our university in our campus schools. Fevzi Çakmak House, a total of 2,812 beds, including 1,608 of whom are members of the High Education Credit and Homes Association, is available to students with the capacity of 2,812 beds. In the centre of the city, 544 students with the capacity of 544 students from the Higher Education Loans and Dorms also serve at the Haci Sabancı School of Girls and the Sumerian Boys' Home, which has 418 students. At the university's Balcallı Campus, the swimming pool represents our university with 650 active athletes in 16 majors, supported by rug football fields, volleyball courses, tennis courts, and the Çukurova University Sports Club with the support of members of Gym Education and Sports Higher School. The University of Çukurova provides 25 complete text magazines with domestic and international databases on various subjects in electronics. Çukurova University is a major state university in our country near the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. There is an intense airway transport between Adana and Nicosia. Çukurova University has the largest hospital in our country's South and Southeast regions, medical school and dental school. With no hospital investment in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, the use of hospitals and applications of Çukurova University's Faculty of Medicine and Dental Medicine faculty in Adana, 3+3 years of medical school, and another three years of training in Adana campus, again 3+2 years of basic dental medicine training for the Faculty of Dentistry, and two years of training in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, is possible. In this case, Çukurova University will be encouraging for students who will receive a degree in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and our students can be directed to Cyprus instead of programs in the Middle East, Balkan countries and other countries to study medicine and dentistry. The University of Science and Technology, founded in Adana again, is a state university founded in 2011. It consists of some schools such as the Faculty of Engineering and Natural Sciences, the Faculty of Aviation and Space Sciences, the Faculty of Maritime, the Faculty of Fine Arts, the Faculty of Design and Architecture, the Faculty of Law, the Faculty of Political Sciences. Therefore, we consider it appropriate for the University of Çukurova to open a campus in Cyprus as an Adana MP. So we're going to do everything we can with this bill. With these feelings, I congratulate the rectors of Çukurova University, and therefore those who are in charge, and wish them well, and say, "Let them be the help of the Lord."
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0104par0048	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Ankara MP Nurdan Şanlı on behalf of him. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Glorious.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0105par0052	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 1st Amendment of the Dahir Law Bill, that it is appropriate to ratify the Framework Protocol relating to the Campus Building of Çukurova University in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, 67. I salute the General Assembly. The training campus of Çukurova University in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus will be co-operated with the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. This form of education will be an ideal model for our students to grow much better and will be encouraging for our young ones. The University of Çukurova therefore states that it is appropriate to ratify the Framework Protocol on Campus Building in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and once again to wish our country and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus the best.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0106par0056	Thank you, Mr. Glorious. On behalf of him, Ankara MP Emrullah Business. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Business.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0107par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge on the 1st Article of the Dair Legislature of the University of Çukurova, in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, to confirm the Framework Protocol Responsible. As is known, the Middle East Technical University established a campus in Cyprus. There, students receive a Cypriot degree from the Middle East Technical University and are educated. Istanbul University is also trying to establish a campus there. However, Çukurova University has decided to establish a medical school and a faculty of dentistry in the campus area, dedicated to them by the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. This decision was also found appropriate by the YEDAK in Cyprus. As a matter of fact, the University of Çukurova is one of the largest universities in Turkey. Adana is a province near Cyprus. There is also heavy air traffic between Adana (Adina) and Ercan Airport. So it is clear that there will be no problem with transportation. The school will receive basic training on the campus, where they will receive three years of medical school, and another three years of internships in Adana. In the same way, basic education in the dental school will take place in Cyprus for three years and two years as an internship in Adana. Hacettepe University, as you know, contributes by sending a lecturer to medical school at the Near East University. The Near East University actually has an amazing hospital there. So instead of opening a hospital there, so that it would be more useful to open a medical school and support it, they've already expressed it in the talks, during a meeting with the board, at Çukurova University Rector. This is the right step. It is certain that opening a hospital there would not be a very random and accurate investment. So I find it very helpful for myself to make such an investment. On the other hand, as you know in Cyprus, most of Cyprus's revenues are from tourism. In fact, making Cyprus a educational centre is among the policies of our government. Cyprus has many universities, private universities. As I said earlier, ODTÜ has a campus, but it is clear that the campus that Çukurova University will open will also stimulate education in Cyprus, Northern Cyprus. So many students from abroad are also expected to go there to study -- especially Turkey. As a matter of fact, we also know that most students who can't study in Turkey, who want to study medicine go to other countries. In particular, the low level of education in the former East Bloc countries has already been expressed by experts. Therefore, I think it would be wise to direct students from Turkey to Northern Cyprus to study medicine and dental school through this intelligent investment. As Turkey, we support Cyprus all the time, we stand by Cyprus. Sir, in Cyprus, we always express this in bilateral talks about the recognition of Cyprus around the world, the opening of trade offices in various countries in which we are in good relations. We are also talking about our universities in Cyprus, and we recommend that these countries direct their students to Cyprus. A dear congressman of ours, who was just speaking here, spoke of defending the honor of the council bench. Unfortunately, there was an unfortunate incident here last week. Before I finish, I would like to say that the honor of this House, of this bench, is not protected by the occupation of this bench. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0108par0072	Thank you, Mr. Business. Question-answer section...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0109par0074	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0108par0075	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0109par0076	Congressman, I don't think he's heard it, even though we've told him so many times before. One, we haven't invaded the House, but we've looked into it, and we've looked into it, and it's been done before by Mr. Bulent Arinc. Again in the Civil Code debates, I think it would be better if Mr. Mehmet Ali Şahin, the former Parliament Speaker, told his Minister before Mr. Bulent Arinc was a member of the Refah Party, when the Civil Code changes came to the agenda, when a death incident occurred here. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0110par0081	Thank you, Mr. Tünce, it's on the record.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0111par0082	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0110par0083	Here you go, Mr. Gardendoor.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0111par0084	Mr. President, as Mr. Speaker has pointed out, the fact that these practices have been made in the past does not mean that these practices are being carried out today. Republican People's Party MPs occupied this bench last week. The protection of this bench is only possible if lawmakers are allowed to speak here, our MP has not been made to speak on this bench. This is a sacred bench, and the authority is for the unconditional nation. As representative of its word, it is an open bench for the use of all our MPs. However, our CHP MP friends have occupied this bench in order to protect it. I'd like to ask them who they're protecting from, where they're protecting them from. If they're MPs, we're MPs, and this bench is protected only by the congressman's speech here.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0110par0087	Thank you, Mr. Gardendoor.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0112par0088	Mr. President, sir, of course, this is not the chair of the AKP, nor of the CHP, nor of the nation. In this case, our call is: If this nation's bench is going to shut people up, I also see that political party groups have been committed to this talk by making a deal with all political parties in exchange for a Civil Charter Proposal, which wants to cut their talks on this issue with a majority of fingers.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0110par0089	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0113par0090	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0110par0091	Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0113par0092	He probably knows that TV broadcasts will be cut at 7:00 p.m., and that's why he's in charge of bringing the MIT law on Friday, hiding it from the nation when there's no TV, not meeting what's here after 1900 p.m. Secondly, when the House is open, the laws of the law have been issued. When the Constitution is clear, they say that they are immediately discussed, unfortunately they are not discussed here. The fifteen-point compilation law provides power as the basic law. Here are the regulations of the Civil Code, the cutting of television broadcasts, the decrees under the law, all of which are a product of the regime of oppression; we resisted it, we tried to protect the voice of the nation.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0110par0095	Mr. Slim... Please, the matter is clear, Mr. Group Vice Presidents.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0114par0097	Mr. President, today... My last word...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0110par0098	Please...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0114par0099	I'll give you the last word: today is the 13th hour of Congress. It's open at 00, and today, it's quarter to six, and in all that time, the opposition is talking about the matter as necessary or not, we have no interference, we have great respect. They are fulfilling the requirements of the Civil Law. Beyond that, it's just for the sake of winning a political runt and popularity, and it has no reputation for us.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0110par0101	Mr. Gardendoor, point taken. Thank you. Now, members of lawmakers, I'm going to the QA section. I'll do a ten-minute question-and-answer on the matter. Five minutes, I'll make a promise to the lawmakers, reminding them it's limited to one minute. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0115par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, last week I went to the villages of Milas. In particular, after family medicine setbacks, the villagers are unable to prescribe their medicine. So when they go to the centre or to the hospital, the family physicians will write. This is an event that we often see in Mugla, especially in Milas, and in some villages; it comes from other provinces from time to time. I specifically request that this organization be provided. Second of all, I'm guessing about 250 of those who specialize in dentistry, do you have any of them working on the special staff? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0116par0110	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0117par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, again, our people are only paying five lira contributions. You misled our people again because our people don't only pay five liras, and you know it very well. He's going to the hospital. If a prescription is written, he'll get $3, more than three pens, five pens, plus $2.00. If he doesn't get better in ten days and goes to another doctor, he'll pay $15.25. If he goes to a private hospital, it's $39, Mr. Secretary, not $5. Please don't mislead the people. And as if that wasn't enough, you put money on our tax-paying citizen from GSS, general health insurance. Well, what should I call you now?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0118par0115	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0119par0117	Mr. President, thank you. I'm asking our Minister of Health: "We're going to build a hospital in Kozan district of Adana. " I'd like to ask when this hospital will be built, if its terms have been made. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0120par0120	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0121par0122	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to briefly tell you about a cub. The climate is Tüdemiroglu, who is three years old, has a congenital scoliosis patient, so he has four more ribs on his left side, two missing on his right side, and he has to be operated on by an expert doctor. He actually had a good doctor, but due to the Full-Day Act, he left September 9th Hospital and went to a private hospital. Now, in order for that doctor to have surgery, this girl's family needs $30,000. Is this not a victim of the health ministry's condition after the Full - Day Law? Can this child be treated with an application that pierces the Full - Day Law?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0120par0123	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0122par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I wasn't going to ask questions, but I'd like to share something with you. When we love him as a politician and as a nation, we do not see his error, nor do we see his goodness when we are angry. I guess you're one of the people in the world who should be filing them for the best. So you're old, too, ten years ago, you've been running Turkey for ten years. Don't bother with the old one anymore, you're dealing with yourself when you start dealing with the old one. Now, I'm asking the question: do you believe that there is still no deficit money in Turkey, that there is no such thing as knife money? My second question -- I'm very sorry to ask this, not to exploit -- is that the regulations regarding the Prime Minister's operation are saying that there are some irregularities. So, Mr. Prime Minister, if we can't do procedures without mistakes, if we can't do them, by violating the same procedures in this country, at the status of a citizen, or the status of a Prime Minister? Because there's a public debate about the doctors breaking the law. Are you planning to investigate these doctors? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0123par0131	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0124par0133	Dear President, thank you and my dear friends. In the villages of Milas, or in another village, the family physicians did not write down the medicine of the villagers. I'm going to investigate the situation in Milas, which is normally not supposed to happen. So I don't think there's anything that's been created about the application, about the system that we've established, about the new system, maybe there's a mistake with the application. I'll have the matter examined, of course, by our citizen's ability to dictate his medication, easily access to his medication. We've handed over the rights of dentists, or, in fact, to our fellow dentists, who have been considered a Ph.D. by training as an expert for many years, and who have not been given the right to expertise, you know, by the new rules that we've recently established, in accordance with the law. Now they need to be given their staff in regard to those rights of expertise, with public finances and government personnel. Mr. Horseman likes to talk a lot. It can be embarrassing when you talk too hard. This embarrassment could bring back a very ambitious speech. We all have to be careful about these things. I'm very focused on my speech. I said the 5 lira contribution is the only money taken at the state hospital. He doesn't pay for medicine, citizen. We didn't say that. The contribution to the drug has been paid from a long time ago. It's a very normal thing, it's all over the world, it's in our country. In many countries around the world, one of the countries where the minimum payment is paid from a citizen's pocket, which is paid for medicine in a developed, developing country is the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0125par0139	So you admit he paid.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0124par0140	Right now, it's making close to 95 per cent of the drug payments public, my dear Congressman. No citizen with a chronic disease, diabetes, diabetes, heart disease, kidney disease, cancer, such as cancer, has a medical contribution fee or a medical contribution fee. Thus, Turkey has established a truly generous system. This generous system, in fact, is a system that gives people what's rightfully theirs. And We have not been gracious to anyone. From time to time, you speak, you must do these things, you are already in power. That's right, that's the power's duty. We're just trying to do our job. As we carry out our mission, our citizen appreciates it. So what I'm talking about is this old-school, old-fashioned system: Citizen, yes, when he goes to the hospital today, he pays a $5 contribution, pays additional contributions when he goes to the private hospital, pays contributions when he's on medication. That's right.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0126par0144	What do you have in your pocket, Mr. Secretary? Say it. Don't fool anyone.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0124par0145	Dear lawmakers, our following, watching citizens know very well that you were unable to treat any of your major diseases before you went to a practice. A practice costs 100 lira, 150 lira, 200 lira, 250 liras. Don't you know that? We all know that.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0126par0146	Is that what you were doing, Mr. Secretary? I didn't do it. Have you ever done that in your life?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0124par0147	Dear Congressman, I invite you to remain calm.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0126par0148	I'm calm.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0124par0149	Change that habit a little.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0126par0151	Mr. Secretary, I don't need your advice.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0124par0152	You had a teaching degree, and you didn't treat your students like this at the time.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0127par0153	Congressmans, please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0124par0154	No one would let that happen. You are bound to maintain the same courtesy as I am to you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0128par0155	You interfered while I was talking.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0124par0156	What happens if I don't?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0129par0157	Mr. Horseman, please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0128par0158	Mr. President, he stepped in while I was speaking, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0124par0159	If you don't keep your kindness, our people will give you a note and us a note, so don't worry. I don't give it to you, you don't give it to me.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0128par0160	You interfered while I was talking!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0124par0161	Yeah, I've been sitting here for nine years, ten years, in the line of this commission. This power and this right has been given to me by the beloved Turkish nation, Congressman, do you know that?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0128par0163	He gave me the same power, just like you. Yes, you continue with that opposition force. Of course we're going.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0130par0166	If you go with that head of yours, you'll always have that opposition.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0128par0167	Does that sound right to you, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0130par0168	What's not to like? I'm saying if you go like this, you'll always be against it. I'm not saying anything bad. There's no insult, there's nothing wrong with that. I'm talking about a fact.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0131par0169	The people gave it to you and who gave it to us?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0128par0170	Talk to me about technique! Talk to me about technique, not public language.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0132par0171	Mr. President, would you please step in?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0133par0172	Please don't talk to each other, members of lawmakers, please...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0134par0173	We're building a hospital for Adana Kozan. In regard to the time of this, I will answer to our esteemed congressman in writing regarding his process. A young boy named İlim was mentioned. Dear Congressman, do you think that only doctors with a practice in Turkey serve our young, such as the climate? Look, either you give me his name or don't, because we've already built the system. Maybe our baby and his family didn't know about this. I'll have him searched right away. I will also make sure that Turkey receives whatever services are best in whatever hospital there is in Turkey. But he'll have to be taken to a certain doctor, and that doctor will get 30 grand from him, the hospital, the private hospital, or if he works at the university, he'll get paid at his practice, and we're not in it.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0135par0176	Like you did with the Prime Minister? He wants the same thing you did to the Prime Minister, citizen.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0134par0177	That's what we're not.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0136par0178	Mr. Secretary, this is the end of our time.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0134par0179	We'll answer the other questions in writing.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0136par0180	Thank you. Now, negotiations on matter are complete. There is a request for a roll call before the vote of matter; I will now meet this request. First, I'm going to run the names of the members who have requested a roll call and see if they've been in the hall: Mr. Ezen, Mr. Kören, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Topal, Mr. Karaahmetoglu, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Öner, Mr. Akova, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Ayata, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Acar, Mr. Akar, Mr. Öz, Mr. Korutuk, Mr. Demir, Mr. Kurt. Now I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 1 is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu. Here you go, Mr. Kuşoglu.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0137par0199	Thank you, Mr. President. I have taken a pledge from Çukurova University on the 2nd Article of the Dair Legislature, with the number of 67, that it is appropriate to ratify the Framework Protocol relating to Campus Building in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you with love and respect. It's a very important issue that we support as a party. Because Cyprus is very important, especially in recent years, the Eastern Mediterranean has become very important, very important. So we think that Cyprus, our investments in Cyprus, all our interests in Cyprus should be very important, and we, as a party, support such activities to the end. This protocol of Çukurova University in Cyprus is a protocol that we consider important, that we support, that we want to continue. I said Cyprus is very important, and in the last sixty-six years, Cyprus has a very important place in our foreign policy. In more than half a century or so, you can get impressions of how Turkish foreign policy has evolved by studying Cyprus, and it's a very important issue. You know, on the other hand, in the Middle East, in the Middle East, in the Middle East, especially in the Middle East, through Islamic countries, there is also an international power race going on. It's very important, because it's a very important issue that determines all the issues of our time, perhaps most of the internal political developments. The race for power in the Middle East seems to be aimed at energy sources, only about controlling energy basins and energy pathways, but there are far more important aspects to it than that. In the coming years, there will be international power to block the centers, especially to prevent them from reaching their scarce resources. This race is not just about energy, but of course, with all sorts of methods and methods, including military methods. I just told you, the Eastern Mediterranean has always been important in the international power race, but in recent years, it's become a little more important. In addition, there have been significant developments in the eastern Mediterranean with oil and natural gas, a natural gas source expressed by billions of dollars, and its resources have been discovered. And the Eastern Mediterranean has become even more important in this international power race, in the energy race. You know, the United States of America has a naval base in the eastern Mediterranean. England also has a base in Cyprus. Also outside of England, Russia has a base in Syria, its military base. Israel, in the coming days -- it is said to be such an offer -- is seeking a base from Northern Cyprus; we learn that it has such a purpose. We're learning that such an offer has been made by Netenyahu, that it's seen as positive, that negotiations have begun, and we don't know how true it is, but everyone is trying to get something about the Eastern Mediterranean, about Cyprus, to keep a place here. Dear lawmakers, there is, of course, an international power race in the Eastern Mediterranean, as I was just trying to tell you, but on the other hand, this one is trying to squeeze us into the area, especially after we're done. Israel has a number of agreements with many countries, including France, Germany, Balkan countries, Greece, South Cyprus. On the other hand, Azerbaijan is also making initiatives for countries like Georgia. Earlier, the Turkish-Israel axis was decisive about the Middle East, of course there were different developments in the region after we followed a different policy. It's unfortunate that our predicting these things wasn't something that was accomplished by our foreign policy, but there were mistakes about these issues. Today, unfortunately, we see the negative effects of his domestic policy, and we're having major difficulties with this issue, but despite that, there are also very different developments. For example, the previous day, NATO spokesman Carmen Romero announced that NATO and Israel would cooperate in the Mediterranean. This is the issue of Israel's offer. At Israel's proposal, NATO and Israeli forces will co-operate together in the eastern Mediterranean. We're going to be involved; we're going to have to follow the exact opposite policies about something we don't want, something we've been trying to pursue so far, especially in recent years. And that's going to be a huge mistake, so after that, Israel is taking revenge on us, step by step on everything, and we're not aware of it, we're suffering from it, and we don't have any strategy against it. And with the Israeli-NATO military cooperation in this eastern Mediterranean, we will be forced to enter another subject, along with the radar base in Malatya. You know, as for the radar base in Malatya, the statements from both the United States and from NATO, from Rasmussen, also said that this served the interests of Israel in particular. Unfortunately, there's something here that's contrary to our State Department's statements. Israel is also deeply involved with Cyprus. This creates a situation that is particularly growing against us. I would like to tell you in particular a passage from one of the writings of Ibrahim Karagül, from New Dawn. To be particularly convincing, I chose this: remember the anti-Turkey campaign of the Mediterranean and Israel in the Balkans. The collapse of the Turkish-Israel axis, which has been aimed at designing the Middle East for decades, has caused tremors far beyond Turkey-Israel relations in a narrow sense. This development began to appear to surround Turkey from Mediterranean to Black Sea, from Hungary to Georgia. In contrast to tensions in Turkish-Israeli relations, Tel Aviv sought his own axis. They made deals with Greece, making deals with other countries in the eastern Mediterranean, and making exercises in a much wider area. I mean, they didn't lose, but we're losing, and we're not aware of that, my dear friends. That's what I want to say in particular. In October 2010, two countries, Greece and Israel, organised a joint air exercise. S-300 missiles were tested during the exercise, which included over a hundred Israeli fighter planes off the coast of Crete. Israeli planes have tried a range of 1,900 kilometers. It was a long-range attack drill, a drill for targets like Iran. The preparations were made against the S-300 air defence system, which Russia sold to Iran, but was blocked, but was unable to prevent against all Israel's pressures. Israel also made deals with Cyprus at the same time, military agreements. Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman and the Greek Foreign Minister have met several times. My dear friends, I express all these things to you: Cyprus is very important to us, God's grace, the zeal of our fathers, and we need to appreciate it. In the past, we've underestimated this place by even saying that it's a feeding place, we didn't care, we've followed the wrong policies, but we need to be aware of that now, we need to be aware of that. This kind of Çukurova campus is not enough, but other than that, we need to create many new, purposeful, targeted strategies for the region, related to Cyprus.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0138par0211	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0137par0212	Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0138par0214	Adana MP Muharrem Varlı on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0139par0217	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 2nd article of the contract on the campus of Çukurova University in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. On this occasion, I salute you all. Cyprus is really important to us. To dominate the Mediterranean, the Eastern Mediterranean, and all the Mediterranean, we must care for Cyprus as much as our own territory. Cyprus is our national cause. A thousand martyrs, blood, tears, and a piece of land that has been acquired and a national case against the Greek Enosis' dreams in 1974. It's not a piece of land that anyone has kindly given us, that he has drawn maps and set boundaries on; it's a country that we believe we have earned by the right of our own wrist and that we must protect despite everything today. Of course, when it is called Cyprus, it is not possible to pass without remembering Mr. Rauf Denktas, who worked hard on the Cyprus case, not remembering him, not remembering his soul. Mr. Rauf Denktash has worked hard on the Cyprus case, where perhaps the symbol name of this struggle is also the symbol name of the Turkish world. May God have mercy on him. He has mercy on him. I wish we could show him the respect and respect we showed him in his death while he was alive, if we could understand his litigation and his struggle while he was alive, if we could act with him and serve the interests of the Turks instead of the interests of the Greeks, it would be much more meaningful, much more beautiful. Of course, in a country where we have a national trial like this, Çukurova University opening a campus is a proud occasion for me as an Adana MP. Çukurova University is one of Turkey's most important, largest universities. It's a university with about 40,000 college students. The building of a campus at Çukurova University in Cyprus, where it is also important for Cyprus to establish a medical school and dental school, as well as for Turkey, because the University of Çukurova is a university of higher education. This is a very advanced medical school here. It's a huge hospital where patients come from certain parts of the inner Anatolian region, which address all Southeast Anatolia, all the south. It would be helpful for the teachers of such a hospital to teach there, both for the people of Cyprus and for us. It will contribute both to the economy in Cyprus, and the last three years of the students there will contribute to the Adana economy. I'd like to thank our dear friends, who have contributed in this sense. We find it very useful to build this campus. Cyprus must be publicized in every environment. I believe it would be very helpful for a large university like Çukurova University to open a campus there. I wish you the best of terms with this law. I want to thank the contributors, especially the President of the University of Çukurova and everyone who contributes. Good luck, good luck.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0140par0226	Thank you, Mr Varli. Ankara MP Nurdan Şanlı on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Glorious.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0141par0230	Mr. President, I have received a pledge today regarding the 2nd Article of this agreement that the University of Çukurova will set up for the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and once again, I salute the General Assembly. As we've seen from all the speakers, we've come to the conclusion that this campus has been accepted by all groups that it will be useful. Again, speakers here gave details about the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, about Çukurova University. So once again, again, to our students who are going to be studying here, to our country and to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, I wish this campus well, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0140par0233	Thank you, Mr. Glorious. On behalf of him, Ankara MP Emrullah Business. Here you go, Mr. Business.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0142par0237	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you as you begin my words. I have made a personal pledge on the 2nd Amendment of the Dair Law Bill that the Framework Protocol of the 67th University of Çukurova, in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, has been approved. I also expressed my views on this bill in Article 1. This bill, the framework protocol, is supported by all groups in talks already held in parliament and in talks on the commission. The 2nd article -- I offer it to your attention -- is the application clause. So I respectfully salute the High Council, wishing this agreement to be a blessing.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0143par0243	Thank you, Mr. Business. Now, let's move on to the QA section. Ten minutes in this department. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0144par0247	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you're constantly undermining physicians by processing knife money from this bench. In your nine-year ministry, how many doctors did you process for money for knives? What was that ratio before you? How well did you accomplish that? Do you have any concrete figures? Besides, if we take knife money as a bribe, do physicians tend to take more bribes than other professional groups? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0145par0250	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0146par0252	Mr. President, thank you. I have a question for Mr. Health Minister: there is Saimbeyli district of Adana. His population may be a little small, but so far he's never been able to benefit from health care. Are they planning to build a state hospital there? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0147par0255	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0148par0257	Mr. President, the district of Arguvan is one of the oldest districts in Malatya. In the summer, the population grows, along with those from out of the city. In addition, thousands of people from abroad and abroad are arriving at the International Turkish Festival in the summer. However, despite an intense population circulation in Arguvan County, unfortunately, there is no state hospital. The central health clinic is located in four neighborhoods and 24 villages. There are no specialists at the health clinic. After the initial intervention in any traffic accident, the wounded are being transferred to Malatya headquarters, hospitals. A citizen who was last injured in a car accident last year was killed because there was no necessary intervention in Arguvan County. I refuse to allow Arguvan County to be treated like a stepchild. I'd like to request a state hospital with your initiative in this matter. I'd like to add one more thing: I'd like to give a warning to our Group President, Mr. Muharrem Tüyük. The roll call puts the AK PARTY MPs in grave danger. As I was just arriving, a lady friend I thought was Balıkesir MP put me in danger of crushing me and insulted me that didn't suit a congressman. And I condemn him from here.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0147par0260	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Pitcher... (x) Correction of these expressions is found on the 83rd page of the Report magazine.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0149par0263	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, valuable lawmakers, if a man steals a dollar, he commits a theft charge, and he steals a thousand liras, he commits and is charged with theft. Now, I've just done an account for you, and I said: "Is this not the money for the knife, if you have a second examination?" Is the government getting serious money from my pack or not? You just said: "By doing so, we have prevented unnecessary arrivals at the hospital. " Is it a picnic site that you prevent people from coming to it? How do you decide if it's necessary? How does a guy with chest pains know whether it's muscle pain or myocardial infarction, whether it's necessary or unnecessary? Everyone needs to come. We've reduced the infant deaths. You said. That's right. It's a little low. If you don't do anything, that's going to go down, but 10 numbers in a thousand is a number of reflections. You know that very well. No Western country will admit it's ten out of a thousand. Your share of health has increased three times. You said. How much of this is spent on treatment costs, transnational powers and medicine? If things are going well in health...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0150par0270	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Gürkan...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0151par0272	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, especially wish that this bill for the establishment of a campus in our University of Çukurova, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, should be legalized. I'd like to thank all of you for your support in Adana. I wish success to our students who will study both in Cyprus and in Adana. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0152par0275	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0153par0277	Mr. President, may I have a moment to make a correction? Can I make a correction? Did we say something wrong about Ms. Tülay?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0152par0278	You said the wrong thing, you want to fix it. I'll give you my word if you get into the system. Mr. Secretary, go ahead. Once I'm in the system, I'll make a promise to Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0154par0282	Thank you, dear President. Mr. Cloud, I never accused the physicians of taking knife money. We're having a system discussion here. If you were to give a physician a small salary, as in those past periods of wrongful practice, to a physician who had almost spent his life training, and then you gave him the rest of it to win in the practice, you would have left no other way. There was a wrong system, and the victim was our citizen and our physicians from the other side. We all know it, you know it, you know it. Nobody knows that. Now, that's changed. Turkey currently has around 32,000 specialists who are actually working at the Ministry of Health; there are assistants, practitioners, high-value professors at the university, 90 thousand doctors working in public. It's about a value, I'm giving you a number, but come on, give money to the practice or to this address. The application is over. Now, of course, physicians are very valuable people who serve their nation with the honor of this country. I kiss all of them's hands, they're all on top of my head, but it wouldn't be appropriate for a social state to put a citizen in an office with the wrong system, to condemn him to private surgery, private procedure when he goes to the university of his state, to keep him waiting for months otherwise. We changed that. ▪ How many have been identified in this way? Honestly, I didn't do the statistics, and I don't intend to. As I've already told you, the possibility of doing these jobs in public has now completely disappeared because we've eliminated a wrong, bad system. Let us consider the matter of Adana Saimbeyli. While we're building hospitals, dear friends, we're always looking at the population, the centers. Our esteemed MP can't take advantage of health care. He said it's for our county. Of course he's taking advantage of health care. We have family physicians there, and if there's an emergency service, our ambulances are in service. Just because there's no hospital in a county doesn't mean there's no health care in that county, of course. I'd like to say the same thing about Malatya Arguvan. Really, under a certain population, building a hospital doesn't mean serving there. Besides, he doesn't specialize in emergency systems, 112 systems, he doesn't work anywhere in the world, and there's no need for that. We've got EMTs, paramedics, doctors, well-trained in these ambulances or 112 services. They run to our citizen's rescue when needed. I will also examine the state of Arguvan. I will consider it. Even if you do nothing, infant deaths will be reduced. If you look at the reports of UNICEF, the World Health Organization, the OECD, or the articles published in the world's most reliable medical journals, you will find it much easier to understand the service of the Republic of Turkey's state as a social state in this regard. You got to be proud of that. You got to be proud of that. This is the success of the Republic of Turkey; this is not just the success of the AK PARTY governments, our Prime Minister, the Minister of Health. We've achieved such an important success, an example of the entire world, with the development of infant deaths and the regression of mother deaths, with our health workers, other institutions, other ministries, but you can appreciate that the engine of this has been the Health Transformation Program that our governments have established. Again, as a citizen of this country, as a member of parliament, we should all be proud of it. Should it be better? Of course we're trying to do better. And I'll tell you our goals: Turkey's goal for 2015 is to go down to 10/100,000 in mother's death and below 7/1,000 in baby's death. Meanwhile, we're building a 200-bed hospital for Kozan. We've started construction on January 15th. We're still working for Saimbeyli for a 20-bed integrated hospital. I think I mispronounced Saitbeyli, we're still working for Saimbeyli's 20-bed integrated hospital. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0155par0290	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Agha, come in for a correction.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0156par0294	Now, I've just had an incident, Mr. Group Vice President Muharrem Tün wants to do a lot of roll call, so I have a request that our AK PARTI congressman friends are in grave danger, not to do so. Now, I've just used a name for Miss Tulay, and I apologize to her. Now that I have seen Mrs. Tülay, she is not the one who did that to me. I was just on my way to roll call, and two friends come out of B block, and one of them's name is Ismail Safi, and I can't remember the other, female congressman. In a way that didn't suit a congressman, our lady friend pushed me between the glass door, and I survived life-threatening. So...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0155par0297	I suppose they'll be gentler, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0156par0298	Because it doesn't matter if he's a congressman or not, he could be a citizen. Because, just now, Mr. Secretary of State says, I invite our friends to respect it, and I condemn that friend.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0155par0299	Thank you, Mr. Agha. [[Continue]] I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. On the third article, Antalya MP Gürkut Acar is on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0157par0311	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 3 of the Dair Legislature, that the Framework Protocol Consent to the Campus Building of Çukurova University, rank 67. I salute you. As I begin my speech, I honor the founding President Rauf Denktas of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, which we recently lost. Once again, my condolences to the people of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Dear MPs, I believe any contribution should be made for the development of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, economic and social development. In this sense, I believe this campus bill can contribute substantially to the development of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. The name of the Turkish Cypriot Republic would be very useful if it was referred to as a university and a tourist island. The work launched to make the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus a modern, light science and higher education centre of the Mediterranean must be supported. (x) The statements regarding this correction are found on the 80th page of the Union Journal of the Book. Dear lawmakers, we are now exporting colleges to the KKTC, but what is the status of our universities? Our universities are silent, our universities are silent. Law scandals occur every day in Turkey, but law schools remain silent and silent. My dear friends, the name of Ataturk is being erased from the institutions of Ataturk. Colleges are quiet, colleges are quiet. All institutions are being turned upside down by law enforcement, colleges are silent again. College guides should be mind and science, universities should be the center of free discussion, but where! Students who express a different opinion have been lying in prisons for months. The young people who call it money-free education are our children, our young people, but they have been held in prison for months under the cover of the terrorist organization. Forty-four months in prison for an unsold egg. Students' festivals, their meetings are blocked. Students who criticize the practices of rectors, deans, are suspended from universities at universities. Would it be a college without criticism, my dear friends? What do we do with a chancellor who responds to criticism with disciplinary action, suspension from school? That's college. That's science. I'll leave it to your appreciation. Deliberate lawmakers, TÜBITAK, YÖK and universities have been silenced through staffing. Mr. Secretary of State says that the opportunity for a general election has been brought. If you had such a problem, this country has Parliament and for now it's open, then let's discuss it here. Why are you making this expansion by kidnapping us, smuggling us out of the House, by order of the law? Because that is not the goal; the goal is to dominate the last autonomous scientific institution, TUBA. It is a concern for the future that the institutions of Ataturk are targeted by scientific institutions, which must be autonomous. Dear lawmakers, it's the right project for the university to be taken with each and every one of them, but it's been applied wrongly. Look, there are two periods when the AKP looks at universities: the period before Abdullah Gül became President and the period after that. Before the President's change, KÖK was a bad, shitty institution, a structure that had to be changed, but after the President's change, AKP has no complaints from the YÖK. When the president changed, AKP's YÖK and university problems were resolved at once, and suddenly Turkey's number of universities doubled, and new universities were appointed new YOK rectors, but unfortunately the existence of universities in the country has been forgotten. Only colleges come to mind with CSI scandals, and unfortunately everything about these scandals is covered up, and the people responsible for the scandal are still able to sit in their seats. You can't understand them, you can't accept them. Finally, he was appointed ambassador to the SEC as a reward. Dear friends, have our universities increased, have the number of faculty increased equally? No. Do our college graduates get jobs? No. Thousands, hundreds of thousands of young people, college diplomas, wandering around, unemployed, desperate. The greatest danger for a country is its youth, which has given up hope of the future. Is there a problem with the NGO, the universities, the Ministry of National Education? No. You can't understand it, you can't accept it. It is not possible to solve these problems by taking out concepts such as the National Education Act, the Republic of Turkey, the Turkish nation. Dear MPs, the Minister says: "Why are you going to the Constitutional Court?" Where should we go? Do you want to go to the Ulem, the pilgrims, the teachers? If you're sure of your work, if you're acting in accordance with the law, why are you complaining about a trial? You want no law, no law, no jurisdiction, and the AKP to do what they want. This means I am the law. The laws of the law are the product of this mentality, the MIT law proposal you bring up is the product of this mentality. The Prime Minister's men, untouchable; men of the Minister of Health, untouchable; send him where he pleaseth, let him do as he pleaseth, let him distribute a portion of the return capital that he desire, and let no one speak of it. There's no way we can allow that kind of structure. It's a shame that scientists in a country, if they can't speak, if they're afraid to talk, if they've become a process that requires courage to talk, then it's a shame about the state of that country, and unfortunately Turkey is at this stage. My fellow lawmakers, look, where there's no law, there's no justice, there's nothing. In a system without law, without justice, there is no university, no wisdom, no science, no freedom, no youth. Turkey is this point today. At a time like this, the Prime Minister says, "I want a religious youth to grow." The Prime Minister of the secular Republic of Turkey says this. The duty of a secular country's prime minister is to establish a modern, intellectual and scientific educational system, a university guided by intelligence and science. Prime Ministers should not interfere with what people believe, what religion they believe or believe in. If democracy is going to happen, it's going to be secular, where there's no secularism, there's no democracy, there's no advanced democracy, it's got to be remembered. Precious lawmakers, from this bench, talk about the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, such as the island of the casino, which the people of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus do not deserve. You may want to implement different policies, you may have different definitions of the current situation, but there's no good in bringing them up in some inappropriate terms. Dear lawmakers, it is a positive and supportive process for Turkey's KKTC to apply to the higher education area. We believe that opening a campus at Çukurova University is a useful step. We believe the KKTC should contribute to its development as a university and tourist centre. Turkey must also take steps to move universities to the KKTC, making them the center of free thinking in Turkey. If Turkey's mentality is to move to universities that will be opened at the KKTC, it will mean nothing. These institutions will have nothing to do with the KKTC. I wish the KKTC were an island of university, science and tourism. I express my faith that this bill will contribute to these efforts, and I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0158par0332	Thank you, Mr. Acar. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Balıkesir MP Ahmet Duran Bulut. Here you go, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0159par0336	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party to ratify the framework agreement for the University of Çukurova to open a campus in the Republic of Northern Cyprus. I salute your high council. The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, of course, is very important to Turkey, a part of us. Dear lawmakers, education in the development of a country is one of the key indicators. Now, an international framework agreement on the opening of a university, a state university, a campus to northern Cyprus is being discussed in parliament. However, when Turkey has to evaluate education policies, discuss the National Education Commission, send its children to Europe, the United States, I think now that Turkey will benefit from both training its children in its universities, and now in Turkish geography, in the countries in which relative communities are located, in order to promote the agreement, how do we contribute investment in education, in order to promote integration? Like Çukurova University, the Middle East Technical University opened a campus in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Northern Cyprus stands by gambling tourism and education. Perhaps if you have recently seen Cyprus, which has the most beautiful beaches in the world, and has the most beautiful lands, you will see how lonely and lonely they are both in agriculture, in livestock, and in tourism. In this sense, in the name of the state, in the name of the development of those regions, in the framework of the Cypriot policies that your government has slowly imposed on them, we have to care more about Cyprus when we are brothers, when we hold out our hands, and when we shout out our voices, but beyond that, we think about the interests of Turkey as well as the interests of Turkey, as it is in the interests of Turkey, as it is in the security of Turkey. We support and approve the study of Çukurova University in the field of education. The Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus must not only be a gambling island, but a place for gambling. However, as we open up the university, we need to consider and consider some of the problems of our children at the university there. As much as the tuition from private universities there, the Middle East Technical University, which opens campuses there, receives almost as much tuition from Turkey. Now, when Çukurova University opens campuses there, it's done with the idea that there's no competition with other universities there, but they need to be evaluated for their standing. When the school opens, homes must be considered next to the campus. The students are in great trouble with the dorm, providing their transportation in private taxis. I also want you to know that at the drinking point, the price of the region is high, and the families of the students from Turkey who went there are carrying a huge burden. In this sense, universities and new campuses need to think about them in order for Turkey and its student potential to be educated peacefully. One of the most important problems the students face is the children, the students, they go to casinos where they're surprised, they're misled, they're wrong, and they're being taken to the games halls called the "blah, blah, blah, blah, blah." Rest assured, there are students there who have lost their tuition money and put their families in a very difficult position. Of course, gambling should not be legitimate anywhere in the world, as in Turkey. At the educational point, especially in order for these children not to go wrong, it is necessary to draw the attention of the administrations there in Turkey to ensure that state discipline there will also be implemented and not taken to such places, as well as to those who are trained there, away from their families. The medical man our country needs needs these schools to raise the scientist. Such campuses are useful not only to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, but also to relatives, to the Turkish world. Our greatest wealth is here, our cultural limit, but we have a geographical limit, which we have a culture border beyond our political border, which I believe is the best accessibility of language in this wealth, the easiest accessibility of science, the exchange of students there, Turkey, Turkey, the other countries, and Turkey, at the point of the creation of this co-operation. I wish the campus that will be opened well for the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. I support and applaud our university's steps. The fact that Cyprus, Northern Cyprus, as a training base at this point, is a wealth of Northern Cyprus, where the number of higher education institutions will be increased after the campus of the East Mediterranean University, the Near East University, the University of Nicosia and ODTÜ, and that there will be an increase in the number of high education institutions, but I think it will be useful for the students to follow the country's problems in order to be healthy, as I've made clear, that the social rights there, the lives of North Cyprus, and the youth in Turkey should be united in this sense. I salute your grand delegation, wishing the campus well again.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0160par0347	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Ankara MP Nurdan Şanlı on behalf of him. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Glorious.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0161par0351	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the 3rd amendment to the campus agreement of Çukurova University in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. I salute the General Assembly. I'd like to extend my regards to all party groups, who believe that this agreement, whose contributions to education and benefits we've discussed and that we've seen its efficiency in many different ways, will be positively approved again.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0160par0354	Thank you, Mr. Glorious. On behalf of him, Ankara MP Emrullah Business. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Business.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0162par0358	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute you as you begin my words. I have made a personal pledge on the 3rd and final article of the Dair Legislature, that the Framework Protocol Consent to the Campus Establishment in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus of Çukurova University, rank 67. The third article states that the Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I cannot find anything to say about it. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0163par0364	Thank you, Mr. Business. Moving on to QA. Ten minutes. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0164par0368	Thank you, Mr. President. I haven't been able to answer the question I asked the Minister of Health because there's no answer to that question. I'm a 25-year-old physician. This knife money is enough to wear us doctors down and hurt them. That's the question I've already asked to invite the Minister to pay his respects. I believe his sacred profession, his medicine, has beaten his practice long enough. Mr. Secretary, this has got to stop. In addition, pensions must be fixed as soon as possible to improve the living standards of retired physicians. I'll remind the Minister of that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0165par0373	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0166par0375	Thank you, dear President. Dear MPs, there are constant power cuts in Şanlıurfa. That's why public refrigerators and televisions are being damaged and their white stuff is being damaged. When will this be fixed? Question two: Şanlıurfa Province Akchakale Syrian Gate closed, but it was not closed. In a commercial way, the people of Urbana are really affected by the negative. Why is this inequality? Why is the people of Urbana being treated like stepchildren in this commercial life? The third question is: Flights can't land in the misty airs of Şanlıurfa Airport. The material that led the landing has not been removed. This poses a danger to air safety in terms of traffic safety. When will this be repaired? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0167par0380	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0168par0382	Thank you, Mr. President. When do you plan to build a research hospital in the Mugla district? Again, when will the state hospital be held in our town of Centralca? How much will he be capable of? Again, with this latest arrangement, health reform has left no specialists in public hospitals. In this framework, four specialists have been released from Central State Hospital. When will the appointment be made instead? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0169par0386	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0170par0388	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, our Minister of Health isn't here right now, but Mr. Dona, I think he might be able to answer that question. As it is known, in public and university hospitals, intensive care units are inadequate, and most of the patients come to the point of losing their lives before they enter the intensive care unit. What measures do the Ministry of Health consider? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0171par0392	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0172par0394	Mr. President, thank you. The draft law is something that concerns the University of Çukurova, setting up campuses in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and mainly the Faculty of Medicine and the Dentistry, which naturally comes from the health field. Even the Health Minister can't answer the questions we're asking, so I'm gonna stop asking questions. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0173par0397	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0174par0399	Thank you, Mr. President. I was going to ask Mr. Health Minister, but unfortunately our Minister of Health isn't here, but I'd appreciate it if Mr. Secretary of Health could give us some detailed information from the Minister of Health, because this is a very important issue for the Butler. We have two hospitals at the footman's hospital: the SEC Hospital, which is now known as the Obstetrician Hospital and State Hospital. These two hospitals are a hospital with 650 beds. In 2009, a protocol is to transfer it to TOKI, a 400-bed hospital by TOKI, and the location of the two hospitals, and the center of the city, to the mall and housing centre. However, we ask for protection of these health facilities at the center of the banister, and we have heard from the Minister that certain promises were taken from him that our fellow AKP MPs would not be handed over to the Turkish Parliament and that they would be protected as a health facility. Is this for real? So our two hospitals, State Hospital and Obstetrician Hospital, will be protected? Is the era abandoned to the TOKI? Will our other 400-bed hospital continue its mission as a research hospital?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0175par0402	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0176par0404	Mr. President, valued MPs, I have noted questions regarding our government member Health Minister in this meeting regarding the Legislative Bill and Foreign Commission Report, in which Çukurova University is eligible to ratify the Framework Protocol on Campus Building in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Of course, as you can appreciate, I don't find it very right to answer these questions in general, since my field of duty has no questions related to the European Union reform process, but as a government, we believe that every citizen of the Republic of Turkey has the right to be given health care at the best standards. I am honored to be a member of a government in Turkey that has made arrangements in the past that would not even be imagined. In the past, our citizens who waited hours at the hospital gates can now be treated for any doctor they wish in the hospital. And if there are some problems, we're doing everything we can to help fix them. In the same way, I am honored to be a member of a government that has given every kind of ease in the history of the Republic the most determined way to get all our citizens to take their medicines from pharmacies. Our congressman asked that the living standards of retired physicians be raised. We will continue our efforts to improve not only the living standards of retired physicians, but all of our pensioners.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0177par0407	If not in this world, you raise it in the afterlife.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0176par0408	Our Minister of Energy's response to the power outages in Şanlıurfa... In the same way, I will contribute my best to the question of closing the Akchakale Gate. Of course, in Şanlıurfa, it's not only the case that planes have trouble in the misty air, it's the same problem that we often have at Esenboğa Airport in Ankara, and our planes are delayed. It's not a new airport, it's an airport that's been built a long time ago, and it's said to have been done in spite of some warnings, but hopefully we'll all go through with it. Does our Ministry of Health have a study on how to build a research hospital in the district of Muğla? While I'm not sure, I'm going to ask them to inform our deputy and Mr. Erdoğan about what projects our Ministry of Health is working on in both the district of Mugla and Centralca. In the same way, I'd like to ask our Ministry of Health to take this matter into consideration and inform our deputy in charge of the question of our hospitals' intensive care units. Of course, I have no knowledge of whether Mr. Yilmaz had a project for the two hospitals he asked for, but I will also convey your message to our Turkish Presidency and to the Ministry of Health to inform you about it. I'd like to give a special thank you to our deputy, Mr. Horseman. He showed genuine kindness by saying that it was about a campus in Cyprus, that he was considering a health question in this framework, but that he chose not to ask because he was not the Minister of Health. I thank him, as a brother of the MP, from here, and I thank him for his sincere conduct. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0178par0416	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0179par0417	Two minutes left, our friends can ask questions.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0178par0418	I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0179par0419	Mr. President, there were two minutes left.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0178par0420	I've voted. I'm sorry. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Before voting on the entire bill, Mr. Young is the last word of the MP, Mr. Tunceli MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0180par0425	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you know, the winter conditions are causing a great deal of trouble everywhere. Especially in our province, in the east, in the southeast, today they showed it in Mush, people are in great poverty. Unfortunately, the government doesn't even send fuel here, but Mr. Recep doesn't hesitate to fly seven planes. Mr. Abdullah, when he's in a good mood, he gets on planes and visits Europe. Mr. Recep has been ill lately, but Mr. Abdullah pays 700-800 billion dollars every time he leaves, friends. Now, the esteemed MPs, the AKP Group Deputy President, say: "Sir, in the past Bkent Arinc and Mehmet Ali Şahin have occupied the bench, don't you." Now, valued lawmakers, who have been brought here, who have been asked to change the Civil Code, have been deprived of opposition at the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Only two people have the right to speak on one law. You see, the AKP people are coming out, and they're closing that two-person promise. After that, the opposition parties have no right to speak at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey when this Civil Charter change comes up. Therefore, in order to avoid this situation, the opposition party must fight to ensure that lawmakers continue to exist here, so that they do not lose these rights here.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0181par0428	Bullying...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0180par0429	Otherwise, after this amendment to the Civil Code, we no longer have the right to speak here. So what we're doing here is a legitimate struggle not to lose our right to speak on this stand. You get the ruling party, all the talk, the law. Now, look, friends, the restrictions that have been imposed on this matter in the past have always been cut off. Now, you have brought a law. You're bringing an immunity to the crimes committed by members of the MIT and the Prime Minister. It's the worst thing in the world. Now Recep Erdogan will tell his opponents tomorrow that he will send some men to kill them. Look, friends, on the day that 27 of our soldiers were martyrs in Hakkari, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and Ahmet Davutoglu sent private planes to bring the 11 Hamasians whom Israel had set free from Israel from Israel, and they took care of them that day. I'm asking, who were those 27 soldiers martyred by? Now there's no way we can just suddenly come in and scan those outposts and kill 27 soldiers. Now the prosecutor's... the prosecutor says I'm not investigating this. Look, a bomb was dropped on a bus in Istanbul. Seventeen-year-old girl died in that bomb. One of them says: "Some MIT members did this. " Someone says that four of our citizens died from the bomb that was dropped in this Kızılay. I say we explain these things. I don't claim, so let's explain these things; let's explain the prosecutor's case, so let the public know about these matters. What are you afraid of? So you're guilty, so you're afraid, so it's going to be based on the future, Erdogan. Recep Tayyip Erdogan is afraid, running from responsibility and trying to shut people up. Friends, there is a Article 138 of the Constitution. Have you not sworn allegiance to the Constitution on your name and honor? What does the 138th article say: "In the matter of a case that is being seen, the judiciary cannot be instructed, it cannot be ordered." What do you call it, the law you have brought? Sir, you're interrupting the prosecution's investigation. That's an oath of honor and honor. People who swear on their honor and honor must take care of their honor and honor. Now, you, friends tomorrow, you don't know who's going to be Prime Minister. He says that if you commit a crime, I will not judge you in any way I want to protect you. There are talks in Oslo, and it's obvious who did what there, what you agreed with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) there, to the Kurdistan Workers' Party. Did Mr. Recep say that he is a bastard and a scoundrel who doesn't prove it? He did. After that, did it turn out that Mr. Recep and members of the PKK were seeing each other? (x) So, who's the bastard and the scoundrel? Who is it? Who? Who? Who?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0182par0435	You!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0180par0436	The ones who say those things. So you will negotiate with the PKK, but in this character, people...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0183par0438	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0180par0439	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0183par0440	Your time is up, sir. It was five minutes. It was an accident. Your five minutes are up, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0180par0441	No, sir, my five minutes aren't up yet.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0184par0442	Sit down, don't nag!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0183par0444	Congressmans, please... please remain calm. Mr. Young, please take your seat.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0185par0446	Mr. President, I'd like word from the teaser.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0183par0447	Here you go, Mr. Gardendoor. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] (x) The description of this statement was found on page 230 of the 67th Unification Tutane, dated 16/2/2012, in the department of Discussions on Last Report.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0185par0452	Thank you, Mr. President. Today it's 13 o'clock in the House. It's opened at 00, we're working at this hour, of course we're criticizing each other, we're saying our mistakes, we're increasing the dosage of it from time to time, but we're still not losing the human relationship, but unfortunately, the last speaker is sad to say that by losing its value, in each speech, losing the value of each of the laws at the end of the meeting, he's trying to reduce the work of the Assembly here, trying to create tension between the MPs and each other. For myself, I've been here for five years -- I've never seen fit to answer this speaker -- because if you feel the need to answer a speaker or a person, at least your levels should be the same. (EC PARTY) Or if a speaker offers you a review of anything or puts you in the lower rankings of values, I think that speaker should have those sequences of values, those human virtues, such as decency, such as honor. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm returning all the words he said to himself.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0186par0456	I thought you said you weren't going to talk!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0185par0457	Look, there are 326 MPs here. 22 million people voted for these MPs. I'm multiplying the number of these MPs by 22 million, multiplying them by the number of everyone who works for the EC PARTY, and returning the same words to you with the result of this multiplication.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0187par0459	Thank you, Mr. Gardendoor.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0188par0460	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0187par0461	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0188par0462	The speaker said he's losing his humanity level. And I can't get down to his level... I want to talk about bullying, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0187par0464	Congressmans, please. Keep your lyrics straight. Dear Young, please don't speak of honor and honor to anyone. Because everyone's honor...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0188par0466	Sir, I spoke of the oath of loyalty to the Constitution. My honor, upon my honor... let me answer, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0187par0467	Please... please...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0188par0468	Sir, he said he shouldn't lose his humanity level. It's a tease, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0187par0470	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0189par0471	There are some values, and no one has the right to take these values into their mouth and criticize another. Please take a vote.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0188par0472	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0187par0473	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you all know very well that I have repeatedly told all our members of parliament over and over again on this matter. I have stated that no talk of honor and dignity is appropriate to any of us. Please, Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0188par0475	Sir, you promise not to pick on me for two minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0190par0476	No teasing, sir, please.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0187par0477	Just for a minute, because I'm picking on you, so you can fix this. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0190par0479	Let him take that back, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0191par0480	Apologise, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0187par0481	Please do not speak of honor and dignity. Everyone's honor and dignity...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0192par0482	No, no. Now just give me two minutes. Now, Mr. President, I meant from honor and dignity, I said that we as MPs...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0193par0485	We're not gonna know what you're talking about!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0194par0486	Congressmans, please listen.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0192par0487	...that we will be loyal to the Constitution while we do our duty here. We swear on our honor and honor. We heard what you said. And I said, "Every MP should be loyal to this Constitution, so he must be faithful to his oath on honor and honor." You didn't say that. There's nothing abnormal about it. I mean, after that... Now, dear lawmakers, look, the AKP has such great abuses that you don't give us the opportunity to express them, you don't make them talk. Come on, let's go to the TV, let's be clear. Let's see, if you're right, I already know how to apologize to you, but you took this country to the dictatorial regime; you turned it; you destroyed the state of the Republic of Turkey; you destroyed its reputation; you divided the state of Turkey; you destroyed its reputation.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0195par0493	Take it back! Take that back!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0192par0494	Where's your Secretary of State? Your Secretary of State... we're discussing an international agreement, the Minister of Health is coming. Who did the Secretary of State go to take orders from? Why will he attack Syria?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0196par0496	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0192par0497	He's got to pay for all this. Sir, there's teasing, but I don't feel the need to respond to bullying. I'd like to submit this to the General Assembly's information.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit03spe0196par0500	Thank you, Mr. Gardendoor. [[Continue]] The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, the Court's Open Bill on the Verification of Framework Protocol relating to Çukurova University's Building in KKTC: ▪ Number of votes used: 283 [[x]] Muhammad Bilal Macit Fatih Şahin So the bill is accepted and legalized. I wish him well. Congressmans, I'm gonna take an hour off.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0196par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 66th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will now begin negotiations with the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission Report, which is ranked in the 3rd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey in the fourth place, and with the Council of Ministers and the Foreign Commission Report, that it is appropriate to ratify the Partnership Framework Agreement between the United Nations Development Programme. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 100 rows. On top of the bill, Sakarya MP Münir Kutluata will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0197par0013	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group to confirm the Partnership Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the United Nations Development Programme. I salute the High Council. This agreement, which was submitted to the approval of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, was signed on 11 March 2011. The framework provides an extensive feature as a result of an agreement. The large number of principles and commitments, the width of areas that are considered to be cooperative, shows this. Frame agreements, as a result of their nature, are generally held broadly, and the implementation process is agreements that can benefit from the pursuit and sensitivity of the parties. Therefore, on the one hand, we need to look at what the U.N. Development Programme, which is the opposite side of these agreements, is doing and how it works, and on the other hand, we need to look at the progress of Turkey-Lift Programme relations. (x) 100 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. One of the main tasks of the United Nations is to encourage development, economic and social development. About 70 per cent of UN work is considered to be developmental. To establish peace conditions around the world, poverty worldwide is sought to be eradicated and prosperity increased. The UNDP, a development organisation under the United Nations, is the largest donor to human development within the United Nations. Its foundations are based on the unification of some of the United Nations' expanded technical aid programmes and the United Nations Special Fund, which was established in 1958. UNDP was founded in 1965 by the General Assembly of the United Nations. In most of the country's offices, UNDP representatives are co-ordinating development events on behalf of the entire United Nations system. In short, the purpose of the United Nations Development Programme, which is simply called the ULDP, is the main task of fighting poverty. As the UN's development organisation, he's trying to carry out this project by supporting sustainable human development. In 2000, the ultimate goal for reducing poverty became more concrete by means of the Thousand Year Development Goals. The UNDP network is adapting to the two by linking global and national efforts to achieve these goals. We also have to look briefly at the goals of the UNDP, which is the Development Programme, which is important in the 100 rows of agreement that we are negotiating, because this 100 rows of agreement refers largely to these Thousand Year Goals. In 2000, members of the United Nations set a new agenda for the new century. They presented the Thousand Year Declaration, which is a general commitment to all United Nations member states. This declaration revealed a series of goals called the Thousand Year Development Goals, claiming to adapt the principles of the United Nations Convention to a new world and a new millennium. So the UNDP's goals became clear with its Thousand Year Development Goals and eased its pursuit. These goals are: One is the removal of extreme poverty and hunger; the providing universal basic education; the strengthening of gender equality and strengthening of women's position; reducing child mortality; improving maternity health; fighting HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases; improving global partnerships for development. The United Nations General Assembly approved these goals, adopted in 2000, in 2001. The United Nations Secretariat has asked the UNDP to make an effort to make it happen worldwide. In fact, studies on the Thousand Year Development Goals began in 1990, entered the declaration in 2000, and were approved in 2001. Given the long period of time between its beginning and its acceptance, it was desired to limit the goals of the Thousand Years of Development over time, and so it was done, and a target of the year 2015 was set, and a limit was set. Even if it didn't happen by 2015, the targets were wanted to be seen to be on the way to its fulfillment. In short, the Thousand Year Development Goals are a series of targets set with 8 main targets, 18 lower targets and 48 indicators. A solid connection is needed with strategies that show how to achieve these goals. In that sense, the work of UNDP country offices is of great importance in the countries where they are. When we look at the areas of co-operation that have been highlighted in the contract, in addition to these eight goals mentioned, the development of co-operation in the areas of reducing the risk of disaster and running rescue activities, the development of relations between UNDP and Turkish Co-operation and Development Administration via exchange of information, the development of relations with TİKA and other state institutions, the formation of the UNDP Istanbul International Development and Special Sector Centre, which will be established separately among the parties, and the establishment of the establishment of the UNDP Istanbul International Development Centre, reducing poverty and the implementation of developing countries, and the implementation of other internationally-intenuated development objectives, and the establishment of jobs in many other areas. When we look at the goal of the framework agreement, the overall goal of this agreement is to develop global development partnerships to speed up progress in implementing internationally agreed development goals, including the Thousand Years' Development Goals. It is said to be developing, to contribute to the challenges of the least developed and low-income countries. It is expressed, to create synergy between programmes that have been implemented externally in the development process and programs that have been implemented nationally. Turkey's aim to boost UNDP's contribution to regional and global development capacity is to strengthen its co-operation among the parties on the basis of partnership defined in these agreements. These objectives are listed in Article 1 of the contract. Here, valuable MPs, two points stand out. One is that Turkey is a donor country and is a global development partner. So with this agreement, Turkey is considered a country that will help weak countries achieve the goals of the Thousand Year Development. Another aspect of attention is the less developed country's expression. The challenges of the least developed countries and low-income countries are needed. A very serious contradiction is revealed here. This conflict at the Garate level is that Turkey, among the G20 countries, is experiencing the same problems as it is trying to help solve problems in at least developed countries. In that regard, this less developed country needs to be very brief on its expression. It's not an expression that has an alive, functionalness in economic literature; as you know, undeveloped, underdeveloped countries, developing countries -- these are expressions of kindness -- and developed countries. The least developed countries are sometimes referred to as third world countries. These countries refer to very high birth rates, very high mortality rates, very low life expectancy and potential loss of potential. Now, it is a good thing that the United Nations sees and accepts Turkey as a donor country while trying to help these countries through the Development Organization. However, when we look at these substances, when we look at the goals of Thousand Years of Development, we see that Turkey, unfortunately, has fallen into a situation where it can be described as some of the characteristics of Turkey, in a way that is often described at many points as less developed countries, and is not used in economic literature. That's the contrast I want to get your attention from. The first of these goals, one of the eight things I've just counted, is the eradication of absolute poverty and hunger. On one hand is the world's 17th economy, the reality of being among the G20 countries on the other, the fact that we're being claimed to be in a position that EU countries envy, but after that, there are no people left with less than $1 per day income. The reviews are expressed by the government. These are very serious contradictions. In a country such as Turkey, the average income should not be mentioned in a country where it is said to have reached $10,000 and exceeded a dollar, $2-day income. Mr. Ali Babacan often says that. On December 26, 2011, he said: "There is no one left with less than a dollar in income, and we have reduced what is less than two dollars to two percent. Dear lawmakers, a country that joins the G20 is not supposed to have a day-to-day discussion of income, such as $1, $2. It shouldn't be a trick to get rid of it. Because if you donate 365 million dollars, you're taking a million people out of under $1.00. These are not supposed to be success stories. If these are mentioned, the overall situation in Turkey is not good. Turkey's hunger limit for 2012 is 958 Turkish liras, and the poverty limit is 3.123 liras. According to the declaration of TÜİK (TÜİK) on December 19, 2011, the number of people below the poverty border in Turkey is 16.9, and the population in constant danger of poverty is around 18 per cent. Thus, Turkey is viewed as a country that must contribute to the United Nations in the fight against absolute poverty and hunger, while on the other hand, it is experiencing these problems, which is the first point. Second, the second goal is to make sure everyone gets basic education. The 2011 OECD reported that the primary schooling rate in Turkey is 91.3%, but the average of OECD countries is 98.6%; 91,3-98.6... Turkey is at its worst here and is ranked 1st, I'm afraid. Even Poland, ranked second, is more than 94.1 per cent ahead of Turkey by 3 points. In another OECD (OECD) report, higher than 95 per cent of OECD and G20 countries, except for 4 countries, have a 5-14-year-old schooling rate. One of these four countries is Turkey. On the other hand, we know that we are ranked 92nd among the 187 countries in the human development index. We know that we are 41st in 65 countries in the ranking of students in education. In terms of average education from the 25-year-old population, we know that we are ranked 126 percent among the 187 countries. So this is seen not only as an area where Turkey can help, but as an area where it needs to make improvements and improvements on itself. The third goal is to strengthen women's position and improve social gender equality. One doesn't want to get into this because we know that the images that will push Turkey to the side of the least advanced countries are here. We're still in a country where we have to campaign to send girls to school. Twelve-year-olds sold children, 11-year-old mothers. In the face of violence against them, the number of helpless women is increasing, and the number of women we cannot prevent from being killed is increasing. Is there progress or decline in Turkey in this area? I really think these issues should be seriously identified. It is the fourth and fifth of these goals to reduce child mortality and improve mother health. Turkey has distanced from reducing children's deaths, Turkey has also distanced from improving mother's health, but according to a 2010 UNICEF and World Bank survey, the death rate of six children under five years is 18 percent in Turkey. In Tunisia, it is 16 percent in a thousand, and in Congo, 16 per thousand in a thousand, and in Uruguay, 11 per thousand in a thousand in Spain, 5 per thousand in Greece, 4 per thousand in a thousand in a thousand. It's got to be compared to 18. It's really taken some distance from that. I don't think there's a Minister of Health. While the previous contract was being negotiated...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0198par0036	I'm here...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0197par0037	Sir? Are you here, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0198par0038	I'm here, I'm here...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0197par0039	Good... yeah...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0199par0040	Here you go, sir. Go ahead.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0197par0041	Just now, Mr. Secretary, from 1960 to 1990, we have achieved the distance of the OECD countries in child mortality and mother health in the last eight years. He did a serious injustice, Mr. Secretary, and I want to say it because the issue of mother health and child death is a matter that Turkey takes very seriously and deals with. In fact, Mr. Secretary, the issue of mothers who died while giving birth to support the Census Planning Law in 1965 was brought up so much that after that, there was so much discussion that the number of mothers who died during the birth of children was significantly reduced by reducing the number of mothers who were described as 50,000 each year in the records and died while giving birth. The OECD countries had done it between 1960 and 1990, and Turkey had done it in the last eight years. I think it's unfair to say "OECD." Turkey has taken care of this issue and it has been severely reduced, but it seems that we are still at 18 percent of the time in the death of children under the age of five. And we have to say that this is not a very healthy way, that it's not a good outcome, but we've also expressed that improvements continue. Dear lawmakers, another goal is to ensure environmental sustainability. In environmental sustainability, the United Nations and developed countries have this approach: Environmental challenges are largely derived from the use of natural resources. With regard to natural resources, the fact that most of the work in the United Nations is being transferred through foreign trade to developed countries is not even second-guessing them as the most focused issue for the United Nations, by overloading renewable resources, such as soil, forest, water. You have to express it... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute all of you... for our time has given us so much.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0200par0047	Thank you, Mr. Kutluata. Manisa MP Hasan Ören on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Kören. We wish you well.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0201par0052	Thank you. Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have made a commitment to the Government of the Republic of Turkey and to the Bill of the Perpetual Law that Approves the Partnership Framework Agreement between the United Nations Development Programme. Before discussing the bill, I was a member of the Foreign Commission for two years in the past 22nd term. These bilateral agreements would then be on the agenda of Parliament and would pass very quickly. At the advisory council, the group's vice presidents made agreements on a specific subject or on some issues, and in accordance with these agreements, the bilateral agreements that came our way today would have passed very quickly. But unfortunately, this was the picture that came out during the AKP's apprentice period, and something different began to emerge during the mastery period; the Justice and Development Party wants to shut down the opposition, by having an uncompromising attitude in the advisory councils, by shutting down the voice of the Justice and Development Party, which is complaining about this parliament today, and by actually forcing parliament to shut down the House, and the people's will to reflect on Parliament. My dear friends, if there is happiness in a family, the happiness of the family will be reflected in the street. If there's democracy in a political party, if there's democracy in the party, democracy in the party reflects on the country's democracy. But from what we've seen, the way the Justice and Development Party understands advanced democracy -- the makeup of advanced democracy -- has slowly begun to flow. He has neither a sense of democracy within his party nor has he, based on the will of the people in Turkey, been unable to allow democratic rights to be used in parliament, where the will of the people is represented. The number of members of this Parliament is 550. The deputy leader of the Justice and Development Party very often shows the letter of the Unregistered and Unconditional Nation behind the Speaker of Parliament. If indeed the sovereignty of this nation is unconditional and unconditional, if we are all coming here by the will of the nation, then the eight MPs of this Parliament are in prison. Do the lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party really sleep well? Members of Parliament, who have completed three years, are in prison, even though it has been registered as members of Parliament. So, what advanced democracy? Could this be the idea of advanced democracy? Weren't they elected by the people's will, by the people's votes? What was the Prime Minister saying? When his own ban was lifted and when he got up, he said: "He was a man who fell from the roof. " From Allah, the height of the mountain was only broken, and when it was broken, the Republican People's Party grew; there was only one reason for its growth: the people's will was to respect the people's will, although the Justice and Development Party's vote was not enough that day, we were able to make Mr. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan become a member of parliament with a constitutional amendment over 367. You may also ask: " Well, do you regret it? " We never regret it. We didn't do it to Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we did it out of respect for the people's will, if it happens today, we'll do it again. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, what does the Prime Minister say? Mr. Prime Minister, do you want me to make a phone call to the judges in order to save the people in there? Whatever has been done to you in your time, because of the respect of the Republican People's Party's will, we changed the Constitution and opened the way for you to become an MP, and you deserved it because there was a will for the people. Now, if we don't want you to call the judges, if it's from yourself, open it, it's none of our business, but if we have eight congressmen in there today, if they're going to go out with a little joke on the amendment or the relevant clause, if there's nothing left for them to decide on the files for three years, then let's make a change in the Constitution with the support of all political parties, and Mr. Prime Minister doesn't need to make any calls to a judge, let's get our friends inside our house. The votes behind those friends are the will of the people, but when you get here, unfortunately, you can't afford it because you can't run an inner-party democracy, because you have to vote here of your own free will to be sufficient. How will you use it? Is it possible to use it? Your arrival is clear.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0202par0059	Look at you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0201par0060	If I take care of myself, you'll be embarrassed. If I take care of myself, you'll be embarrassed. The Republican People's Party has an internal democracy.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0203par0061	Yeah, yeah!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0201par0062	There are MPs inside the Republican People's Party with crates set up in front of the judge.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0203par0063	Yeah, you're still arguing about your whole TV, your democracy in the party.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0201par0064	My dear friends, look, I understand the legislature, I understand the mayor, I understand the mayor, I even understand the mayor, but I understand the mayor, but now that there are three presidential candidates in a district in the AKP, you call for a test at headquarters, you pass a test at headquarters, you kick them back. What kind of justice? What kind of democracy?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0204par0065	Forward democracy!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0201par0066	Does that really make you feel better? Is that a compromise? Who controls them? I'm a Manisa MP. Turgutlu district is one of the five largest districts in Turkey. There are six borough presidential candidates for Justice and Development Party. They called Ankara immediately, in a minute. He came to Ankara. What mentality, which thought, what authority, what talented friend of ours passed the exam ten minutes later, our friend, the lawyer who passed the exam, went out, and said -- like a hero of democracy -- the Justice and Development Party ruled out five of our friends, so go on with me. And you made a choice there. Why did you choose? He's already one candidate. You never choose where there are two candidates. My dear friends, the makeup is gone. People began to see the democratic understanding of the Justice and Development Party. What did you do?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0205par0069	Hasan Kören was chosen by the primary, is there a pre-election here?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0201par0070	What did you do?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0205par0071	Hasan Kören was chosen by the primary, ask him if he has one.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0201par0072	My dear friends, in 29 counties, we've come in front of the judge to make a preliminary choice, and now we're doing our convention, and now we're going to do it in 81 provinces. We'll respect our president, we'll have love for our president, but we won't be rewarded by touching the President General. We're not going to win. Now, what is this place? Parliament. Do television channels in this Parliament now? He doesn't. So, why was TRT 3 set up, Parliament TV? Don't these people have the right to follow what the MPs are doing in Parliament, where the people have chosen, the will of the people? See, TRT 3 publications are being produced over Parliamentary TV. The parliament works 57 people on TV. There is a directorship in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey based on Parliament TV. There are eight cameramen, eight reporters, five directors, five editors, 31 technical and office employees. This many people don't work on a network that broadcasts 24 hours a day. You cut the feed, did those numbers go down? It didn't. So you didn't cut it to save money. Well, since we all know that I and all the people in Turkey have the right to open and watch with our own free will, does he not have the right to control the MPs he chooses after 1900, with his power, with his opposition? So do people have to watch the nostalgic matches of Hakan Thank God, or do they have to watch the Fenerbahçe-Galatasaray match of Tanju Çolak, 1989? Why'd you guys cut it off? What's wrong? Where's the problem?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0206par0074	It's on the Internet.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0201par0075	So people from this podium aren't going to come and tell us about you? Aren't you going to tell people about what you did to this country's constituent? You won't, because you have no right to. Then we must silence the opposition. You've shut down channel three, there's no way to track it now on channel three. Well, now our friend says we have friends watching online. Well, you have friends watching online, but maybe your lady can't watch, maybe the voters can't. I'll tell you from here what you've done so that the voter will understand. But you're missing the difference. The difference is, you don't need this bench, you don't have anything to say to the public from this stand, you don't have a position to say. You'll only sit here by the grace of the Prime Minister by touching, carrying only a bag, but we don't. I have to get up here; I've been chosen to tell. 15,000 people went into the trunk, and I got picked out of 45 candidates. I didn't come in the way you did, but in the presence of the judge. So what I'm saying is that we have the right to speak on this stand, you may not, you may not, but we do. You have no right to restrict this request. Dear friends, now...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0207par0079	Tell me who carried the bag in Erzincan.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0201par0080	I believe it's good to talk when the speaker is always talking. I'll feel better if you say something more.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0208par0082	Manisa, you got it mixed up, Congressman Manisa.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0207par0083	No, the people carrying the bag were CHP.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0209par0084	Mr. Ören, did you come with the assignment or with the theme?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0210par0085	We'll be an example to all those who don't show up in 81 counties. The locomotive of this country is the Republican People's Party, the engine of democracy. Everyone will see that, we'll contribute. So the political parties need to contribute to the country, and the Republican People's Party will contribute, so don't worry. Now, on TV, the House is quiet, the opposition is silent. Once a week, all the political parties were having a group meeting. I mean, what's bothering you about setting up public relations, communicating with the public, and the presidents coming out to present their evaluations during the week? I'm having trouble understanding what's bothering me. One of you please tell me that we're making a profit by not giving the presidents' speeches to Turkey at group meetings, that we're making this profit by not making them speak, and that we're making this profit by not letting them speak; but none of you come to this stand and do five minutes of your talks, just by doing your duty, that's not going to happen, friends, and that's where you've finished. Now that you've stopped talking to the presidents, it's not enough, because the thought behind your head is different friends. Make-up's starting to flow, your real face is coming out. Now you've come to the Civil Charter.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0211par0087	You've been saying that for ten years, ten years.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0210par0088	What do you want with the Civil Code? Shut up the opposition. Why would you do that? I mean, why are you cutting? Mr. Group Vice President, if there's a law that you can't make, tell us, and we'll help you. You're breaking all the laws. You passed the Turkish Trade Law of 1.535, but then it was your phalanx, and since you didn't go through the mastery period, you were providing a consensus on the advisory boards, and you don't need that agreement, and the Kasimpaşalı doesn't need that.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0212par0089	Mr. Hasan, what deal are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0210par0090	What's the point now? What's this all about? In the Civil Code, you say, "You talk too much for five minutes, you talk too much for five minutes." Why? Why are we talking for five minutes? So you can't use the time to get the law out, or time isn't enough. If time isn't enough, it's easy. Mr. Group Vice Presidents, if time is short, here's the opposition, let's work on Friday, work on Saturday, work on Sunday, work on Monday.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0213par0091	We start work this week.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0210par0092	Why are you making an effort to silence the opposition in three days? You can't tell the public, you can't, so you've already pulled back.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0213par0093	We're working this weekend.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0210par0094	If you do, you'll see the same thing. This bench is not given to you to silence the public's MP.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0214par0095	What deal are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0210par0096	My ministers or my members of the group, did you come here all the time with the will of the people, the will of the people, the will of the people...? Did you, my friends, come with the will of the people, and we came with something else? Weren't the people who voted for us, the people who voted for Mustafa Balbay, who were in prison? But you're good at making others, and you love to make others. The 49 percent that voted for you are yours, and the others are yours. The other one's going to come out here, too. There have been many parties like you who have voted and come here: the Democratic Party, the Justice Party, the Right Way Party, the Homeland Party. They said a lot of things on these platforms, too. While they were saying, Mr. Bulent Arinc was sitting in the seats of this opposition while he was in power, and Salih Kapusuz was sitting here. They were doing 10 times more than what we were doing, but since the opposition or power of that day saw that they were doing politics based on their people's will, in no way, 200 people like you didn't walk on it. For the first time in my life, I looked into your eyes, and for the first time in my life, I saw your face. There's nothing good about that face, that face is a scary face for people. The true face of the Justice and Development Party that has him has appeared. When you don't get the opposition to talk here, know that one day they won't let you talk, but we never want that time to come.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0215par0098	You've been talking for half an hour!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0210par0099	You got a little stuck in yourself today, a little stuck in yourself. Now, you're bringing in the new MIT law. What happened to not interfering with the law, respecting the law? No one will question these authorities when they are involved in the terrorism of this country, even if they are members of the state, whether they're involved in an provocation or something like that? I thought you were respectful. What's the matter, you've launched an investigation into the prosecutors you bought at the Lighthouse? Now, you have dismissed the prosecutor who launched an investigation into Hakan Fidan.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0216par0100	We didn't take it, the prosecutor took it, the prosecutor...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0217par0101	The Italian prosecutor took it, they didn't!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0210par0102	What justice are you talking about, what democracy? Where's it sitting on you? He's got nothing on you. Doesn't he understand? The public understands, they understand. You're gonna take down the sign, you're gonna take down the sign, just like the ones who took it down yesterday.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0218par0103	Not a silk dress unless you step on it!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0210par0104	After that sign comes down, you'll be replaced.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0219par0105	You can't afford to take down that sign!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0210par0106	We cannot afford it, and the people will be able, and we will never be able to do it, and the people will be able to do it. (EC PARTY RINGS) Know that what you're doing for him is not democratic. When you do this yesterday, there'll be democracy, when the opposition raises its voice a little bit, when the opposition brings up some issues about you, you'll be angry, angry. That's not true! You'll live democracy inside of you first. You don't get a favor by touching it like that. When you get your ideas in your head, you get a reward, you get a reward for doing right. I can't win by touching Muharrem Tüzrem. I can't win. If I touch Recep Erdoğan, I can't win. We will not leave democracy...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0220par0109	Thank you, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0221par0110	Yeah, well, if you hadn't had an operation, who knows how you'd have ruined it, you know, surgically, surgically.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0222par0111	Mr. President, there's bullying, I want your word.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0220par0112	Here you go, Mr. Gardendoor.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0222par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. I've never felt right about another party being involved in the internal affairs of this chair, and I've never heard the congressman friends in my group say anything about the internal affairs of other parties, but since they're saying that, we have a few things to say.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0223par0118	You didn't say, there's no Ataturk, there's no Ismet Innu, there's nothing you haven't said!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0222par0119	For example, they say: "There is no democracy in the party, there is no democracy in the party." So I ask you: I read it in the newspapers, I heard it in the TV, like, you had a 12th article in your charter, you suddenly nominated 1,600 non-members overnight in Manisa.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0224par0120	There's a lot of demand for the Republican People's Party there.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0222par0121	For example, how many cities and districts have you removed? For example, I'm asking you, do you have a trustee running your district or county organization in Diyarbakir, the authorities of the Republican People's Party? For example, did you or did you not bring a member of another party -- which means this is an AK PARTY -- into your organization or not? Now, we don't feel the need to ask these questions, but...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0225par0122	Yeah, you made the secretary general of the CHP!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0222par0123	...and we thought we'd talk about it, and I said it in that chapter. Now, Hakan, I'd like to say a word about my friend, thank God. Mr. Muharrem İnce and Mr. Speaker Hakan said a thing or two about Thanksgiving here. Look, there's something very bad, and it's not right to talk about someone who isn't here.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0226par0125	It's okay, why isn't he coming? We don't care!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0222par0126	Thank God Hakan is sick, disturbed and at home. If you have the heart, if you have the strength, when our friend is here, you repeat the same words, and then you get your answer. Oh, and here's the thing. You're saying: "We were interrupted at TRT 3"...... and my brother was broadcasting at TRT before we went to the June 12th elections. What did you do, what did you get in the June 12th election? Did it work for you, TRT 3?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0226par0129	What's it to you? What's it to you?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0222par0130	That's not the point. You know what, guys, it's about having a word, having a vision, and touching the public. If you do this, I'm telling you, it'll be very profitable, and I'm paying all of you respect.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0227par0132	Thank you, Mr. Gardendoor.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0226par0133	Mr. President, the members of the 12th article on Manisa have spoken and asked us about the information he received. I'd like to give you the answer. I want to give him the answer to what's real. So at 1,600, he said that the Republican People's Party registered 1,680 of the 12th Articles in my district. It's not the right statement.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0227par0134	You want to fix it. Here you go, Mr. Kören. Don't let the new tease get in the way.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0228par0138	My dear friends, Mr. Group, I don't know where our Deputy Director Manisa got the information about the Republican People's Party in Manisa.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0229par0139	I read it in the papers, watched it on TV.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0228par0140	If what you've read in the papers is true, look at the newspapers in front of you, a lot of what's written in that newspaper requires you not to be in power now. So you can read about it in the paper and get a Deputy Director of the Group to come here and...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0229par0141	I'm asking.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0228par0142	If you're asking, I'll give you an answer.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0229par0143	Look, your Deputy Director of the Group brings a list from the newspapers every week.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0230par0144	Mr. President, he's picking on me again.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0228par0145	Mr. Deputy Director, if the 12th article is as much as you say it is, if the 12th article is registered, I will resign today. But I want something from you, too. You can count on me, we're your colleagues, we're congressmen.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0229par0146	Of course I will.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0228par0147	▪ The information I received is not true. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I want you to say it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0229par0150	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0231par0151	Thank you, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0232par0152	Is he going to apologize, sir?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0233par0153	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0231par0154	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0233par0155	Mr. Gardendoor has publicly teased me by mentioning my name. If you'll excuse me, I'll answer.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0234par0156	I didn't say anything. I'm talking about Hakan. Thank God he's here.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0235par0157	CHP got the message.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0236par0158	Here you go. Don't let any more taunts get in the way.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0237par0159	Okay, but there's no teasing, you promise.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0238par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bahçapılı, you've made other parties managers of your party. You said. You made the secretary general of the CHP the minister. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So, Abdulkadir Aksu was born and raised in AK PARTY? Cemil Flower was born and raised by AKP? Are you from the AKP, born and raised? Didn't we serve together at the same party?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0239par0165	Not the AKP, the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0240par0166	You walked down those roads together.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0238par0167	Mr. Bahçapılı, now, someone else... I'm sorry, Mr. Hakan.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0241par0168	Mehmet Secret said he didn't count me.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0238par0169	I'll do it. I'm sorry. Look, he didn't attend three parts of the 4 commission meetings; 35 were open votes, 25 were absent.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0242par0170	He was here.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0238par0171	He didn't file any questions, he didn't file any research motions, he gave a one-minute speech in place. He didn't like the 11 billion dollar salary, went to 200 billion liras to comment on TV. I've submitted a petition to the Speakership of Parliament, and the lectures at Omar Seyfettin High School are idle. I'm a physics teacher. There's no Congress in the morning. I'll leave in the morning, and I'll give you free lessons. I've written to the Speaker of Parliament, and I've written to Mr. Bkent Arinc. Here's the answer I've been given.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0243par0173	You can tutor him.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0238par0174	The answer I've been given is that teaching is a job under the control of the administration, so the ministry inspectors will come and supervise you. So, you're a member of the law, and if you teach, you're under orders to run it because the inspector will supervise you, and you can't do it. I want to teach this nation's children without charge for their idle lessons, and the Speaker won't let me, and you'll comment on Hakan for 200 billion dollars a month. That's a shame! Pity! What conscience would accept that?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0244par0177	AKP conscience.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0238par0178	Which law? Which Civil Code? Our slap MP, Mr. Orhan Decent, has applied to Parliament Speakership, and has said, "I am a doctor, a surgeon." He said, "I want to practice medicine from morning until noon." No, you can't be a doctor. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but I can't close down to see Hakan Thank God and watch Hakan's football games in TRT3, there's no such thing. The future will speak from here to this stand. Two, 11 billion lira won't like the salary, he'll comment on 200 billion liras, the Prime Minister has given him permission. First of all, the Prime Minister can't allow it. The legislature is the Speaker of Parliament. My President gave me permission. He calls me that. The Prime Minister doesn't have that authority. We're not peasants of the presidents, we don't exist. (CHEERING) We're a member of the living. The Speaker can let us do what we're going to do. We're a member of the law. How could the Prime Minister allow that, Mr. Hakan?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0245par0184	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0238par0185	He can't allow that. Once a month, I'll open this discussion from this stand. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0245par0188	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0246par0189	Mr. President, I'm going to make a correction. I'm not going to pick on you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0245par0190	About what?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0246par0191	Now, Mr. Ertugrul has made a statement regarding me and that we are from the CHP, although we are from the AK PARTY. I'm just gonna make a correction on him.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0245par0192	Please don't allow any more bullying, and this will be the last time.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0246par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Muharrem Tüyük, you must have misunderstood or misunderstood, but I'll admit it was a misunderstanding. I didn't say, "Thank God for Hakan, or criticize another of our friends." If you criticize Hakan when he's here, then you get your answers right.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0247par0197	He's not coming, so let's criticize him.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0248par0198	But I will, don't worry.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0246par0199	I told you that, but you understand differently, that's your business. I want to say that Mr. Muharrem Ence said that you were once in the CHP, and now you are in the AK PARTY. Look, I've been in the CHP in the past, I've been in the SHP, I'm in the AK PARTY now because there was a terrible difference between what CHP said and what they did.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0249par0202	Is the AKP doing what CHP says?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0246par0203	Republican People's Republican People's Party (CHP) has said that I'm in favor of social democracy, freedom, equality. When I came to the AK PARTY, I had already parted ways with CHP. I'm at this party. I'm proud to be at this party. I think I made a very good decision. That's what I'm suggesting to you, you know? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0250par0206	Thank you, Mr. Gardendoor.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0251par0207	Sir, we've learned that the AKP is doing what the former CHP wants to do. So they're right-winging and left-handing.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0250par0208	Please, calm down. [[Continue]] Members of parliament, on behalf of Kırıkkale MP Ramazan Can. Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0252par0217	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the bill of 100 rows. I hereby salute your delegation. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Republican People's Party spokesman, Mr. Hasan Ören, are involved here in the internal affairs of the EC PARTY, are we involved in the internal affairs of the Republican People's Party? We're not getting involved. We're on our way, we're on our way. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have signed an agreement on the development programme between the government of the Republic of Turkey and the United Nations. The preliminaries of this agreement were signed by Turkey on August 22, 1950, along with Turkey's record with the United Nations. This agreement was adopted by Turkey on 11 March 2011. This protocol includes the development of democracy, the reduction of poverty by half, and the zeal for it, environmental and sustainable development, strengthening women's rights, and activities in the development of the private sector. When we look at his requirements for these activities, this cooperation will be carried out along with TİKA (TİKA). Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have recently been carefully monitored by Turkish foreign policy internationally. In parallel with global developments and national priorities, new openings have been made in Central Asia, the Caucasus, the Middle East, the Balkans and Africa, and an integrated approach that has been adopted that has carefully observed and embraced every part of the world. Co-operation projects, carried out in foreign policy parallel to these openings in its field, have spread across five continents. The EC PARTY took the vote of every 2 voters throughout Turkey in the June 12th elections, making the example of a less visible success in our history as a party three times at a high rate. In our June 12th elections, our nation approved the policies of the EC PARTY both domestically and abroad. From domestic policy to foreign policy, from economy to democratization, our nation has once again confirmed that it trusts the policies of the EC PARTY. A closed-down, walled country with the world cannot be expected to achieve stability in domestic policy, growth in the economy, reforms in democratisation. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers are also not expected to have strong hands in foreign policy in a country whose economy is weak, unstable, far from the ground of trust. FOR nine years, the AK PARTY governments have maintained this delicate balance, not in one field, but in every field, coordinated, compliant work has given Turkey total development. From the zero problem principle of our active foreign policy, we see reflections in all areas in Turkey, especially the economy. See, zero is not about silence, it's not about approval; it's never about silent, nonresponsiveness. We have made every effort to establish peace, especially in our region, at every opportunity. We've put all our neighbors on the table, and we've actively tried to solve problems. In doing so, however, we did not tolerate injustices, persecutions, conflicts, massacres, poverty, and injustice of income, or unlawfulness in our region. We saw the man in Afghanistan and the man in Gaza as a life. For Africa, for Somalia, Libya, Egypt, Tunisia, Palestine. We've mobilized for Haiti, Chile, Georgia. We held on to the religion, religion, the color of his skin, the mines, the oil, the diamond, just because he was human, we defended his rights. We didn't think we'd get in the way, and we didn't worry about getting in the way. The St. Turkish nation also gave the necessary support for these sincere policies of the EC PARTY, confirming our successes in foreign policy, and continued to bring the EC PARTY to power on its own. Someone is coming from the bench, and here they are critically critical of the AK PARTY, but they continue to be opposition. You continue to be the opposition, and we will continue to serve, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0253par0225	Thank you, Mr. Can. İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubat on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0254par0229	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have taken a solemn oath to express my opinion on my personal opinion on the fact that it is appropriate to ratify the Partnership Framework Agreement between the Supreme Court of the Republic of Turkey and the United Nations Development Programme, which is currently in session. I hereby salute your high council. The United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations global development network, aims to support their national and global development efforts, along with its partners in 166 countries, by helping communities with their own solutions. UNDP has concentrated Turkey's activities in three priority areas. These are democratic governance, the capacity to develop capacity for people to actively participate in governance and decision-making processes, and the second is action and policy development to reduce poverty, and the third is environmental and sustainable development. At the Thousand Year Summit in New York, the beginning of the new millennium in September 2000, world leaders agreed on a high-profile agenda. The declaration of the Thousand Year, which was adopted at the summit, described as the fundamental values of the 21st century in terms of international relations as freedom, equality, solidarity, tolerance, respect for nature and common responsibility. They set these goals, described as the Thousand Year Development Goals, aimed at transforming globalisation into a positive force for all mankind and bringing these common values to life. Leaders have set eight targets for development and reducing poverty, as well as commitments to freedom, democracy and human rights by 2015. These goals: reducing extreme poverty and hunger, providing universal basic education, ensuring gender equality and women can do it, reducing child mortality, improving child-care; fighting AIDS, HIV, malaria and other diseases; improving a global partnership for development. Success in achieving these goals depends on the good governance of people in each country, which is defined as democratic and participatory governance based on their own wills, and is also highlighted by the support of the principles of sustainable development mentioned in the Agenda 21. The UNDP continues to provide increased and multi-directional support for the government of the Republic of Turkey in parallel with its global mandate on its Thousand Year Development Goals, promoting its Thousand Year Development Goals on a national scale and focusing on them. The UNDP also acknowledges on a global scale the importance of territorialisation of its Thousand Year Development Goals in order to make them as everyday and visible as possible at the local level. At this rate, a synergy between national development units programmes and external programmes has been signed between Turkey and the UNDP in order to advance the existing co-operation between Turkey and the UNDP in many areas, to diversify and diversify relations, to increase Turkey's ability to promote regional and global development, and to implement Turkey's national development objectives, has been signed by the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Association Framework Agreement Agreement between the United Nations Development Programme. The agreement aims to strengthen and improve relations between the two sides. I wish this treaty to be good for our country, for our nation, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0255par0239	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. We're moving on to the question-answer section on the entire bill. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0256par0242	Thank you, Mayor. Dear lawmakers, employees employed under the Turkish National Assembly's Executive Service Act are not paid even though their insurance has been insured on 15 January-15 February 2012. Aren't you afraid of damaging the House's reputation if parliamentary staff executes the House? Isn't that a shame? I'd like to hear your thoughts on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0257par0245	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Albany...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0258par0247	While our CHP MP friend addressed the bench, he was particularly ignorant, or at least ignorant of the nomination issues within the EC PARTY. I'll give you an example: Two candidates in our district of Alyakaya in Elazığ, Palu, Hivenists and Dzizice competed in a very democratic environment. These weren't invited to the AK PARTY headquarters. Just last week, we had our central district convention in Elazığ. In our Central County Congress, two candidates competed in a very democratic atmosphere and maturity. I wanted to give this example in terms of at least unfortunate sentences based on incomplete information through the example of Elizig in terms of democracy in the AK PARTY. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0257par0249	Thank you, Mr. Albany. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0259par0251	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to ask the Minister of Health a question, and I think he's walking through the General Assembly. On January 1, 2012, the Model Research and Education Hospital was established in Adana. There's no emergency room, no blood center, no children's center. Now, yesterday or last week, the Hurriyet newspaper says: "The new hospital that has been moved, the new hospital that has been opened, has re-arrested. What kind of job is this? That's what I'd like to know from the Minister of Health.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0260par0254	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0261par0256	Thank you, Mr. President. The Minister of Environment and Urbanism is here too. And he, I don't know, was he able to follow up on the subject? In connection with these subcontractors, people work under really difficult conditions, and the result of this work is that they don't get what they deserve, and they're getting late. For example, we were informed that subcontractors still do not receive their wages. We also expect attention from our Minister. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0262par0259	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0263par0261	My question is for Mr. Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar Bey. Is the Sungurlu Dam Project in effect, which will take Akchaova and the surrounding 30 villages as water basins? When will it be done if it's in effect? Will you be working on restitution by the state to compensate the villagers for their property? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0262par0263	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0264par0265	Thank you, Mr. President. Maybe it's not relevant, but I believe it's very important, that it concerns all the MPs. You know, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has changed the Agency's Law, changed December 18th. Counsellors and secretaries from other institutions via temporary assignment cannot receive a salary this month. Why? The reason is that the bureaucratic correspondence was incomplete. Do counselors and secretaries have any flaws here? No. Did they help us here? Yes, they did. Is there a reasonable explanation for such a loss of rights? There isn't. This is a matter that needs to be corrected. They have no flaws or flaws. It's the slowness of all bureaucratic processes that's causing this problem. There's no point in making people pay for it, and I'm asking everyone here to pay their salaries without delay. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0265par0269	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0266par0271	Mr. President, while our Minister of Environment and Urbanism is here, I'd like to offer him a few questions. There's a neighborhood called Doğanbey in Bursa. There are 4,000 victims in this neighborhood -- the TOKI app that has been waiting to enter their homes since 2007. How does the Minister feel about the victimization of 4,000 people? There are also victims of practices called urban transformations in Bursa. Does the Minister have information? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0267par0275	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0268par0277	Thank you, Mr. President. After January 15, 2012, the employees are paid, but they are not paid, I say I will examine this and answer it in writing. I will answer the question of Elızig MP Mr. Albany in the same way in writing, after I have studied it. In connection with the tender for the deficiencies at the Numbers Hospital expressed by Mr. Halaman, I'll tell the Minister of Health and provide the answer. Mr. Canalioğlu of Tripoli can't take the wages of the workers of the Tabheron... whatever workers they are, which employees of whatever institution they are, and if he tells us clearly, we'll do the necessary work at the point of eliminating their victims. That's what I'm offering. Mr. Lütfü Türkkan....Is the dam in the Great Kandira Sungurlu in effect? I'll present it to him in writing after I've examined it. I don't have that kind of information in government institutions, public institutions. Maybe if it's about Congress, maybe the procedure isn't complete, and when the procedure is complete, we'll pay them on time. Otherwise, there's no way I'm gonna pay for no money or any other situation. And in that case, if he has any questions for us in detail, I'll be able to give you something much more specific. About 4,000 people are entitled to the urban transformation that Mr. Haluk Eyidoğan asked about the matter in Burma. So, of course, because of its presence here in the center of the city, the land prices again have been a little high, because the land prices of those who own the land or those who own the land are high, but we'll give them the 30 per cent discount on the cost of housing prices, after we've given them the 30 per cent discount on our Prime Minister's authority. There's a 90-95 percent agreement here by citizens, there's no victimization, citizens are satisfied now. Also in Akçaşan and Gürsu, projects are urban design projects, not urban transformation projects. The social housing projects that are again being built here are given ten years and fifteen years. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0269par0287	The citizen is writing us a letter, screaming!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0268par0288	If I couldn't answer them here in detail... you already have a question, you had a written question about it, and I answered it in writing, and if you ask me again in detail, I'll give you a much more detailed answer. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0270par0290	Mr. Secretary, we have two more questions, and we have time. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0271par0292	I'm Mr. President, and I'd like to tell the Minister that he asked, thank you. That was an offer from our fellow contractors who worked at Tripoli Medical School. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0270par0294	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Elvan...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0272par0296	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'd like to clarify the question that was asked earlier -- for the personnel of the Parliament -- as President of the Plan and Budget Commission. There is no loss for friends who work as civil servants and start as consultants, starting as parliamentary advisers. I think there's been a misunderstanding here. As of January 15th, friends of the government received their salary from relevant public institutions from February 15, 15th. As of February 15th, parliamentary advisers from Turkey's Grand National Assembly take up their contract status... you know, government officials get their wages in advance, and those with contracts get that salary after the month they deserve. Therefore, they will be paid on March 15th instead of February 15th, due to their transfer to contract status. Therefore, there will be no loss in terms of insurance premiums or in terms of salary. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0273par0300	They're out of pay for a month now! They borrow money, they've been without pay for a month, they get credit.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0274par0301	Thank you, Mr. Elvan. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0275par0303	Thank you, Mr. President. During 2008, there was a serious forest fire that included several villages in the district of Gülnar in Mersin. About 60 or 80 households were lost in this forest fire. Other than that, the villagers who lived in that area were completely destroyed by their animals. We lost two or three lives in the forest fire at the time. THE houses made by the Turkish People were still not handed over at the right price, and some of them were left in the middle of the winter especially in a flowing manner. Do you think you can do some research on the subject and compensate the villager's victim? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0276par0307	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0277par0309	Mr. President, today in a newspaper - I don't say journalist, it's an insult to journalists! - Responsibility is someone who claims to be a journalist who wrote an article for Shafah Pavey, both disabled and CHP. I condemn that journalist here, I condemn that journalist. I've recently proposed a law on hate crimes, and I think it's more important that this law proposal is, in the article I read today, than that accusation, that insult. He wishes that this law be passed by the House; I condemn this journalist as a member of parliament, as a human being, and I protest him.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0278par0312	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0279par0314	Mr. Canalioğlu has said that the wages of workers working at the Black Sea Technical University School of Medicine are not paid. Here's the system, Mr. President, valued lawmakers: the price is being paid by KTU to subcontractors. If he doesn't pay the workers' wages that month, if he doesn't bring clear documents that all workers' salaries have been paid in the second month, the subcontractor is not paid. Payments are paid to subcontractors after they've been paid. In this regard, a month's sacrifice may be involved, and in the second month, the subcontractor must pay the wages of the workers he employs. The second month, if he doesn't pay, they certainly don't get paid. To express it here in particular, let's follow it up, and if it's not paid next month, we'll make sure that they pay. With all due respect. Again, on the other hand, about Mr. Oz's forest fire in Mersin, I don't know how to present it to them in writing. Mr. Agha has made a statement, and I thank him for his explanation. I'm paying my respects again.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0280par0318	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE CONTACT OF CONTROLATION WITH THE COMMUNICATION OF TURKEY COMMUNITY COMMUNITY PROGRAM PROGRAMS OF THE BLOOD TO FIND THE SLEEPING The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Partnership Framework Agreement between the United Nations Development Programme, which was signed on March 11, 2011. İstanbul MP Sedef Küçük on behalf of Republican People's Party Group on Article 1. Here you go, Mr. Little.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0281par0328	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath on the draft of the Perpetual Charter of the Partnership Framework Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the United Nations Development Programme 100 rows. I salute your high council. Dear MPs, the United Nations Development Programme has set two basic missions for itself. The first is to ensure growth without poverty. In our country, we all know that revenue distribution has become increasingly corrupt and that 16.9% of the population live below the poverty line. Here, the United Nations Development Programme is trying to create strategies to fight poverty for those who are oppressed under poverty. The UNDP has achieved many successes in such sustainable combat programmes around the world. In this regard, this agreement will be useful to our country as well. Dear lawmakers, another of the basic tasks of the United Nations Development Programme is democratic governance. This mission is as important as its mission for economic development, perhaps more important. In the past few weeks, Mr. President has called for democracy and freedom in the United Arab Emirates, saying that if freedom of thought is contaminated, no matter what you do in other areas will be visible. Mr. President's determination reflects the facts, it's true. If you are not blessed with freedom of mind, if your people are unable to express their opinions freely, all your actions are futile. [[Applause from CHP rows]] However, it is also important to note that you cannot discuss human rights in a country where young people are on trial for membership in a terrorist organization because they sold concert tickets. You can't talk about freedom of expression in a country where students are imprisoned for asking for free education, that protest is a right. You can't talk about democracy on paper, let alone advanced democracy in a country where this is happening. (HPP) Talking about democracy in other countries is a problem, talking about human rights doesn't give us the right to ignore the problems of our own democracy. Don't you think it's a strange contradiction that when you're teaching democracy to other countries, people who want democracy in our country, people who want freedom of the press, they're in prison for terrorism? Dear lawmakers, we are one of the most terror-crime judges in the world. We live in an advanced democracy where both the villagers who oppose hydroelectric power plants and the authors of the unpublished books, and the young ones who march on Women's Day, can also charge them with terrorism. In fact, we live in a democracy so advanced that according to Mr. Home Secretary, artists commit terrorism in this country with their art, with their scientists' articles. We've been through advanced democracy, we're willing to settle for ordinary democracy. You know, in Western countries, where it can be used until the end of freedom of expression, where everyone is not considered a terrorist criminal, which is governed by the rule of law, where universities and the press are free, we long for a normal democracy because we look at it, because journalists don't get their jobs because they criticize the government in ordinary democracies. In ordinary democracies, opposition MPs are not under arrest. In ordinary democracies, the leader of the main opposition party pointed to the distortion of his judgment and criticised the functioning of justice. Criticism is a right in ordinary democracies, as in our advanced democracy, not a blessing from the government or anyone else! It seems there is no tolerance for criticism in our advanced democracy. The lawmakers considered anything with a hammer a nail. Special authorities have also begun to view anyone who makes any noise as a terrorist, anyone who opposes it. From the accessories the young people wear, posters they hang on the wall, there's been a crime of terror. Unwritten books became a crime. People are afraid to talk, to criticize. Now, that's the advanced democracy that's been created. Naturally, with advanced democracy like this, freedom of the press is developing accordingly. See, Turkey is the 148th among the 179 countries on the list of press freedoms for Journalists Without Borders. We are behind Russia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Tanzania. The Human Rights Watch report covering about 90 countries mentions that the definition of terrorism in Turkey has been kept wide open, that even people with insufficient evidence have been punished, that journalists and writers have been constantly sued, that freedom of expression is under pressure. In its report, the European Commissioner for Human Rights says that excessive delays in justice generally undermine the dignity of the justice system and the trust of society in the justice system. Now, no one with a conscience is lying, there's nothing wrong with our democracy, the press is free, the judiciary is independent, the young people are using freedom of expression to the end. Can they say that? If we can't say that, then the spear doesn't fit in the sack, and if we can't say that, then the law doesn't work in this country. What makes the state of law valuable is that it ensures equality between its citizens. If a state exposes its citizens to arbitrary practices, if it makes a personal law, if it cannot achieve equality in the eyes of the law, it will not be called the state of law, it will be called joy. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the application, we see that special authorities have jailed a special court for aiding and abetting the terrorist organization whenever they want to, like the former state security courts. We see that private court has found a terrorist organization everywhere, and for some reason, there's no organization in the Hrant Dink murder. We see that those who have been negligent of this murder have been promoted in spite of the reports. When we look at the application, we see that while the Lighthouse defendants are being tried without arrest, everyone in other cases is being tried persistently; we see that the laws, regulations of the 12 September administration, are still being enforced. That's why we see young people who don't have a final ruling are expelled from colleges. That's what our democracy is all about. It's not what you call it. If the justice system is wrong in a country, it's all wrong. If you're hurting the sense of justice in your people, you're making your system controversial. Dear MPs, of course, the 21st century of Turkey shouldn't be a Turkey where this is happening. Let's make this system that we're all complaining about the way it works in modern countries. Let's save Turkey from this disgrace. But as we make these calls, it turns out that the ruling party is not only trying to lower the voice of social opposition, but also the opposition in parliament. At each opportunity, you will speak of the will of the nation, and you will limit the speech of lawmakers representing the will of the nation; in what democracy has this been seen on earth? Where has such a sense of self-determination been found? There's a question of credibility, a problem of democracy. Dear lawmakers, reconciliation is an integral part of the culture of democracy. Without compromise, the laws you make can't live, can't cure society's problems. Last week, when we were defending freedom of speech in Congress, the violence against us in protecting the honor of the bench, not just for the opposition, but for all MPs, for the future, is the result of such dissension, I did it, I did it. It's the result of logic. None of us have the right to make Turkey a silent Turkey. I remind you that all our people have seen what is to be done and that we are all responsible in front of history, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0282par0344	Thank you, Mr. Little. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, MP Lütfü Türkkan. [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0283par0348	Mr. President, I have been promised to express the views of the Nationalist Action Party on the draft law and the Foreign Commission Report that ratification of the Partnership Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the United Nations Development Programme is appropriate. I hereby salute the General Assembly. I think it would be helpful to focus the essence of my talk on our country's economic data on the Government of the Republic of Turkey and its Co-operation Framework Agreement Between the United Nations Development Programme, which is appropriate. You're telling a story of success in the economy with your government's intense media support and power opportunities, and you're forcing our people to believe it. Dear lawmakers, at the end of 2002, at the beginning of your apprentice period, you took over an economy: growth was higher than six per cent.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0284par0351	It was negative 9.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0283par0352	Inflation dropped 39 points from one year ago to less than 30 per cent. Public debt rates also dropped over 30 points a year. Soon the financial discipline was provided, the banking system was restructured, the companies' division stood up again with support and gained credibility.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0284par0353	Why are you buried in the trunk?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0283par0354	So, the AKP took over such an economy and an economic programme that was reassuring. That's why your government, as your Vice Prime Minister in charge of the economy said, connected the economy to the autopilot. That's how you spent your apprentice period, but you couldn't see the changing world conditions, and you've caused the economy's vulnerability to build up. In 2007, just at the beginning of your phalanx, you began to engage in economic turbulence. Now, I'd like to explain this with some indications. During your apprentice period, Turkey was the 44th economy that increased its income in 149 developing and rising economies. From your 2007 caliphic era to this day, you have brought the economy back to the 98th place. So 54 countries passed Turkey in the growth race during your phalanx.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0285par0357	We're in the 2nd place after China.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0283par0358	I'd like to tell you about our situation in the development race. According to U.N. humanitarian development reports, Turkey was ranked 80/2 in 2000, at the end of your term as an apprentice, and at the end of your term in 2007, in the year that you finished the caliphate, it was ranked 92 (92), according to the UN's humanitarian development reports.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0285par0359	Where did you get those numbers?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0283par0360	Turkey lost constant altitude in the development race under the rule of a party called the Uplifting Party, which remained only on your party's sign. Let's see what's on the unemployment front:
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0286par0362	You're not telling the truth!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0283par0363	Turkey, among the 71 emerging and rising economies, was the highest 36 ▪ unemployed economy when you took power. In your power, Turkey has risen 14 steps in the unemployment ranking; its unemployment at the end of your term has been the 22nd highest economy. Is this a success, and you call it a success?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0287par0364	Are you talking about Turkey?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0283par0365	According to economic Co-operation and Development Agency data, Turkey is the latest member of the agency in 2010 in terms of the employment and employment of the working-age population. But the painting is even worse for our women. Women don't have room for work and work. Of every 100 women in Turkey, only 30 are in working life. We cannot accept such a indicator in Turkey, which aims at the level of civilization. In the rising market economy of Korea and Mexico, 10 out of 100 young people are unemployed, while 22 out of 100 of us are unemployed. Aren't we all proud of the young and dynamic population of Turkey? How can you boast when you can't provide work for this population, when you can't use that advantage? The most important work of your phalanx is the unstoppable rise of current deficits. Your government has done what no republic government has ever done, and in this country, you are the champion of the record of open creation and upgrade. In our country, exports are owned by the government, but imports are undocumented, orphans. You've ruled Turkey for nine years with such a sense of power. You quickly exhausted Turkey's competitiveness. You've transferred jobs and jobs that can stay in our country abroad. The external explanations you gave are obvious. In your first year as an apprentice between 150 developing and rising economies, the number of countries that were less open than Turkey was 48, and at the end of your apprentice, the number of countries that were less open than Turkey was 77. By the time you finished the phalanx, the number became lower than Turkey in the current deficit of 104 economies. In 104 countries, the current economy is open, Turkey has become lower within 104 countries. Turkey's current deficit, which is the foreign currency deficit, has suddenly deteriorated. I want you to pay particular attention to this: Turkey, which has fallen 54 steps in the growth order between AKP's apprentice and his predecessor, has risen 55 digits in exchange for foreign currency deficits. When you look at this painting, it means that God protects Turkey from your mastery period.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0288par0369	It's time for mastery.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0283par0370	As a matter of fact, in the first year of your mastery, the current was up to 80 billion dollars. You've made our country the second world after the United States of America in exchange for foreign currency, and I congratulate you. Dear lawmakers, the figures explained by Turkey's Statistical Agency reveal the real economics that our nation lives in. These numbers, the figures I'm going to tell you, at the end of your calfare, 45 million 131,000 of our citizens in 2010, can't eat a pot containing meat, chicken or fish at least every two days. 58 million, 308,000 of our people can't change their old furniture in their homes. We have 26 million, 504,000 people who can't afford new clothes. We have 62,396 thousand people who can't take a week off from home. We have 26,268 thousand people who don't have the ability to heat their homes during the harsh winter days. The number of depressed people under debt and installment payments is 45 million 336,000. These are the figures of the TUİK, which you control. In 2010, you increased the number of our citizens under the borders of material poverty by 861 thousand, bringing 45 million 303,000 people. In short, you said, "The crisis has passed by." But you laid its burden on our citizens. Here are the real human landscapes outside of your dream in our country, where you tell stories of success. Dear lawmakers, the OECD recently published a first-time study. The name of the study: How is your life? They studied the life satisfaction of citizens in member states according to 11 different measures, such as income, prosperity, business, earnings, health, education. The result is that people within the OECD who are least satisfied with their lives are in Turkey. I'd like to give you a few striking examples of the report. Turkey works for more than 50 hours a week, with the worst working conditions in the country and half of its employees. In Turkey, ruled by your government, people have no confidence in one another, but only nine of every 100 people rely on another. Turkey has the lowest rate of 34 countries. The success of an economy cannot only be measured by the increase of its national income. The success and development of an economy is measured by the increased quality of life for the nation by the creation of prosperity. Your administration is an economy that pleases only hot moneymen. Dear lawmakers, when we give warnings about economic progress, the government assumes we're saying this to make an opposition. I warn the government, get rid of this morbid, narcissistic, self-esteem image. You're aware that what you're doing is whistling in the cemetery, and so are we. Don't forget that the carpet under the feet of the nation can be pulled with you, when you think that Hamasi has saved the image by selling it with speeches. It's time to make the right diagnosis and make the right policies, not sell the hammock with speeches. As a result, Turkey has been caught with the second-largest current deficit in the world for a surge of crises. The government is destroying the economy's anchors one by one. The Central Bank and independent boards have entered the government's command. There are zero problems with neighbours. It has been set off to zero neighbouring points without problems. Our exports, our tourism revenues have been hit. If Turkey fails to find a $200 billion amount of money next year, its failure in the economy is inevitable. I hereby salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0289par0379	Thank you, Mr Turkkan.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0290par0380	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0289par0381	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0290par0382	Mr. President, in the speech of the speaker, in particular, by twisting the numbers...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0291par0383	THE figures of the TÜİK are the figures you've prepared.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0290par0384	You've sunk the competitiveness, you've put our country in economic distress. He's distorted figures like that. I'd like to explain, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0292par0385	Explain what, sir?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0290par0386	I want to explain, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0293par0387	He's going to make a statement, sir, on TİK figures.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0292par0388	We're interested in... Mr. President, you mean there's been some bullying? If he is going to make a statement about the TÜİK (TİK) let him make a statement in his place and ask for word on behalf of the group. That's not gonna happen, sir. If there's bullying, let him state the subject of teasing. I mean, it's almost cloudy. He teased us. He's going to get up there and ask for words.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0294par0390	He said we've sunk Turkey's competitiveness by twisting the numbers.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0295par0391	Because of the numbers, the group sank Turkey. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0296par0393	There's no bullying of the party or the person, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0297par0394	Then when he says so, we too want a word. That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0296par0395	He didn't fail. If he does, we'll have to ask him to lie.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0297par0396	We'd love to.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0298par0399	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, while you're listening to these numbers, I assure you, Mr. Lütfü, he's shown a very tragic image.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0299par0401	Tragic right, but not funny.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0298par0402	He showed a really tragic, tragic image.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0299par0403	Look, tragic is true, but it's not funny.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0300par0404	You're laughing at your crying! You're laughing at people!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0298par0405	Dear friends, in fact, about the numbers, in the last year on this bench, when we were talking about 2010 from 2002, some of our friends were constantly rioting, why are you comparing them to the 2002 figures? So we're going back this semester, let's not compare numbers, but now the AK PARTY is competing with itself. We were comparing the previous term to the next period of the AK PARTY, but it forced our friend here, forgive me, but let me give you clear numbers, statistical figures, let's compare 2002 to 2010, dear friends. It's up from $230 billion to $735 billion in GDP, and it's now over $800 billion.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0301par0407	How much is the foreign trade deficit? In 2002, the foreign trade deficit was missing? Look, tell me about the foreign trade deficit, the one that escaped 2002? Now tell me, what's the 2002?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0302par0408	What's the deal deficit?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0298par0409	It went from $3,492 to $10,067 per person.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0301par0410	Tell me about the foreign trade deficit, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0302par0411	You don't know the numbers! You can't read, bro!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0298par0412	AT THE end of the year, inflation fell from 30 per cent to 6 per cent.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0301par0413	Can you tell us about the foreign trade deficit, Mr. Ahmet? What's the number of foreign trade deficits?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0302par0414	You can't read! If that's how you run the country.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0298par0415	Exports went from $36 billion to $134 billion.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0301par0417	Let's hear it if you tell us about this foreign trade gap.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0298par0418	The Turkish Central Bank had gross foreign currency reserves of $27 billion, and we raised it to $90 billion, friends. What did we do? We've reduced the $23.5 billion debt from the IMF to $3 billion.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0301par0419	Ahmet Bey, should we take the numbers of this foreign trade deficit, 2002, 2010?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0298par0420	We paid $14 billion for moisture, we paid $5 billion for KEY, we invested that much, we served that much, and the Central Bank's currency reserves, dear friends, we increased them fourfold.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0301par0421	Ahmet Bey, how much is the foreign trade deficit in 2002, in 2012?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0298par0422	Listen, listen. We listened to you. We speak the language of numbers. The same way, dear friends, when we come to power, tax revenues...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0303par0426	Even the microphones rebelled when they came!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0304par0427	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0298par0428	Eighty-five liras of 100 went to tax, interest. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0304par0431	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0305par0432	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0304par0433	Here you go, Mr. Vural. [[Noises]] Will you calm down, Congressmans, I can't hear you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0305par0436	Speaking on behalf of our group, Mr. Congressman has presented Turkey's situation in accordance with statistics published by Turkey's Statistical Agency today. Why does that bother them? Now, even though the Orator didn't mention these issues, this is what's so tragic about him taking it as a tease. That was really funny. I thank him for contributing to this tragicomic scene, but because of the bullying... the expression "Tragycomic" is clearly a taunt and a twist. Frankly, Mr. Congressman wants a word about this bullying.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0304par0437	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0306par0439	Just a minute...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0304par0440	Two minutes, please...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0307par0441	Mr. President, no teasing.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0308par0442	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0304par0443	Congressmans, please do not engage in bullying.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0307par0444	With these figures, Turkey's economy...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0309par0445	Numbers don't lie, but numbers can be lied to.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0307par0446	Our people follow the numbers well.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0310par0447	If you call these numbers a lie, prove it, then shut up!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0311par0448	You said it, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Turkkan said it, and you said it. Mr. Turkkan will tell you now and we'll leave it at that, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0312par0451	Mr. President, dear members, look, I'm Mr. Ahmet Aydın, and I'm asking you a question from the moment you took your word. I'll repeat that question from here. As we compare the numbers from 2002 to 2011...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0313par0452	Why did people bury you in the trunk? Don't talk about 2002! People buried you in the trunk, then.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0311par0454	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0312par0455	Look, we got out of the trunk, I don't know where you're going.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0313par0456	Why do you remind me of 2002?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0312par0457	Look, I'm saying something. We got out of the trunk, but I can't be too sure where you're going.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0314par0458	Mr. Turkkan, please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0312par0459	If you tell me the difference between the foreign trade deficit in 2002 and the 2011 foreign trade deficit, you can convince me. That $106 billion foreign trade deficit is Turkey's. Look, if you don't find $200 billion, Turkey will go bankrupt. The situation of Turkey, which you call tragic, is true, but funny, which means that it can't bring meat home...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0315par0461	Yeah... you call them funny.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0312par0462	...can't bring home food, can't get warm...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0315par0463	You call those who can't be warmed funny, don't you?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0312par0464	And people who can't get a vacation, who can't get their kids school supplies, are not funny, so you should be ashamed of it.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0315par0465	You're laughing at people crying!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0312par0466	Those people are a disaster, not a comedy. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0316par0469	Tell me why you stayed out of Congress in the 2002 elections.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0317par0470	You're laughing, aren't you? There will be a conscience, a conscience! You've made people depend on coal!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0318par0471	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. [[Continue]] On behalf of the individuals? No. Moving on to QA. Dear Earth, come in.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0319par0480	I would like to once again condemn the word "impaired" as mentioned here. The word "retarded" is a terrible word on its own. You know, we call it blocked, not sorry. Here, Republican People's Party MPs and BDP MPs have motiond repeatedly to ban such racist, hate speech, unfortunately, with the votes of our AKP friends, these motions were rejected. Now, when they actually read about this in the papers, I'd like to ask my friends, don't they? I'd like to make a suggestion. Please, let's renegotiate these motions, and let's get this kind of law out of Congress. Not only the disabled, but the children of Alevi to the Kurd, who grow their hair, who wear earrings to their ears, who are insulted in this land, who are being beaten for their identity. Let's make a new law together.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0320par0484	Thank you, Mr. Earth. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0321par0486	Mr. President, thank you. It used to belong to the Department of Public Works, the General Directorate of Highways. I, therefore, ask Minister Mr. Adana-Kozan the divided path, Kozan, Fethiye, Saimbeyli, Hurlbalı nostril, or curvature correction. The work hasn't been done for many years. Political contractors are often said to have changed while I was going in and out. I'm asking the Minister to take care of it, or is there a problem? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0322par0490	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Kaleli...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0323par0492	Thank you, Mr. President. The United Nations Development Programme has decided to reach its Thousand Year Development Goals, including reducing poverty by half. Given that the period is three years away from completion, how much synergy can the Partnership Framework Agreement provide and contribute to Turkey and Development Programme? Have Turkey's poverty maps been made?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0324par0495	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0325par0497	Thank you, sir. Mr. Land has made statements. Our esteemed MPs, Mr. Halaman, also stated that the Adana-Kozan road in Adana has not been finished for many years, and often the contractor has been changed. Of course, I don't know the nature of this. He has previously stated that the Department of Public Works and Housing is a member of the General Directorate of Highways. He is currently working under the Ministry of Transport, but in the meantime, it is necessary to express that the double road, which has been divided 15,000km in Turkey, has been completed. I would also like to say that Adana is one of our luckiest cities in both the highway and the highway and the double road, where our Adana is bound to the south and connect to Ankara. And on this occasion, I'd like to thank my Congressman. Mr. Kaleli, our MP, has a question of what benefit to us to reduce poverty in line with these development goals by 2015. I'll give them the answer in writing from our Ministry of Development. Thank you on this occasion, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0326par0504	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There is no demand for word on Article 2. No questions, no answers. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for word on matter. No questions, no answers. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, as a result of an open vote between the Turkish Republic's Government and the United Nations Development Programme to approve the Partnership Framework Agreement: ▪ Number of votes used : 262 [[x]] Muhammad Bilal Macit Fatih Şahin The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will now begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the UNDP-Istanbul Special Sector Centre for International Development (IICPSD) within the United Nations Development Programme, which is ranked in the 5th place, in accordance with the draft law bill and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Turkish Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of the Common Committee's Decision 1/2011 in the Temporary Free Trade Agreement on behalf of the Palestinian Liberation Organization. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubbat, who is ranked in the 7th place of İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubat, who has made changes to the Law on the Execution of Criminal and Security Measures, and the Committee of Human Rights and the Justice Commission Reports. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approval of the Co-operation and Reciprocity Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Korea. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 9th place, in accordance with the International Convention on the Protection of Nuclear Terrorism. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by 14 rows. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Yalova MP Muharrem İnce will speak on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0327par0552	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, I'm not gonna fill 20 minutes. When there's peace in the hall, I'll tell you what's wrong with me in three minutes. I'll wait for him, but I'll wait for him... you know, I've got 20 minutes...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0326par0554	Come in, Mr. Tünce, please continue. (x) 14 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0328par0556	Mr. Slim, you have a promise for us, whichever you prefer.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0329par0557	I want to keep my promise, but...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0326par0558	My friends will listen to you. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0329par0560	...not everyone's up, so if they'll just listen quietly, I'll tell you something.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0326par0561	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0329par0562	Now, my dear friends, legislature, execution, judgment, here's the fourth power press. There's another fifth power, that culture of compromise. Look, Mandela -- there's been racism in South Africa for years -- and black people come to power, 62% vote, 257 lawmakers. Despite being drawn from white people for years, although they have suffered a lot from the National Party -- the National Party gets 20 per cent of the vote, gets 82 per cent of the MP out -- Mandela says that he never enters a power brat, says that this country has suffered much from tension, racism, and now we will form a coalition with the National Party. This is the power of democracy, it is the culture of reconciliation. Now, look, we passed the international agreement every five hours, right, in five hours. So if power wants to lower the voice of the opposition, if it wants to change the Civil Code, the opposition finds new ways.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0330par0564	So you don't shut up.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0329par0565	Look, we've used our QA, we've talked about every clause, we've decided enough, we've asked for roll call. Now, if there's no compromise, there's an international agreement every five hours. Now look, we've reached a compromise, we'll see, it'll pass in five minutes. We'll see about that together. We can do this if we want. We won't object to everything, and you won't have a power drunk. Look, you guys, let's destroy ten minutes of the group proposals on the Council's proposals, cut your voice out, give the Speaker the authority to discuss the procedure... don't do that. Look, Mr. Bahçapılı, we've passed here in the past the Turkish Trade Law, the Law of Debts -- 2,400,500 articles -- in the past, we've passed 2,500 articles in four days. I told you in these Civil Code debates, see, when international agreements arrive soon, we'll show it to you in practice. We just resisted a substance. Why did we resist? So you can see it as practical. But we have no intention of violating the international agreement, so we vote yes ourselves. Now, look, we'll all be spending this deal together in a little while, voting. My dear friends, look, don't do this. There's a lot of laws here that we're against. Did we approve of the President's mandate? No. There were dozens of laws against which we didn't come to the stand, but the Civil Code is different. The Civil Code is our law, the law of this place, and the Civil Code says how all laws are to be discussed. That's why we came to the stand, so you don't cut us any slack. This isn't an invasion. Look, the MIT law that you're going to bring in tomorrow... we're all against it, we're explaining it on TV every day, we're explaining it from this stand, we're not going to have that kind of action tomorrow. You know we're against it, we're going to explain it in every channel, we're going to come out of this chair, we're going to use all the rights that the Civil Code has given us, we're going to try to stop it; we're going to wait for Mr. President veto; what the Constitutional Court does, we're going to wait for him. My dear friends, I want you to know that reconciliation is hard work. Compromise is not written in the Constitution, nor in laws, nor in regulations. Compromise is a matter of the soul. Compromise is a matter of faith in democracy. Compromise is a matter of feeling it in your heart. Now, look, an international agreement has arrived. I've given a five-minute speech at work -- we'll all see together -- no BDP, no MHP, no speech if I'm right, Republican People's Party, no speeches. Look, in five minutes, this international agreement will pass. A lot can be solved by the culture of compromise. Look, you, then you're power. The crown-wearing head settles down. I think it's better to solve the country's problems than to be drunk, to put up with the harsh criticism of power from time to time, to be in power from time to time, to be in power. That's what it's like to be in power, it's hard. Thank you, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0331par0574	Thank you, Mr. Slim. Mr. President, I want a word.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0332par0576	He wants it for the group, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0331par0577	What is it, sir?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0332par0578	On behalf of the group, sir. - I want a promise from bullying.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0331par0580	What is it? About what? They declared that we were drunk and that we were not in the culture of reconciliation.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0333par0582	Be that...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0331par0583	Come in, come in, come in.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0333par0584	I said, be that way.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0331par0585	Here you go, Mr. Gardendoor. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Tünce has told us some things about the culture of compromise from his speech at this time of night. To be honest, I'm surprised. Because why am I surprised? I was among the arguments we had in that back room or in the room of Mr. Cemil Cicek, when the Civil Code disputes came to light. We agreed to what Mr. President said regarding the 19th Article of the Civil Code, which we proposed, but the Republican People's Party refused. We came back two steps, three steps back, but the Republican People's Party insisted. He didn't move from where he was standing. I don't want to talk about it here, but I'm surprised at this point that a person who does this is trying to teach us about the culture of compromise. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Tünce, you were never in those discussions. From our first suggestion of the 19th article, as I just said, we came back a long time ago, but you didn't come back, and then you invaded this place...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0334par0593	So you attacked. As our Speaker spent his entire shift trying to bring this matter to a compromise, you shouted from here, "Cemil Flower resigns." I protest against you. I was doing it that day, and I'm doing it now.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0335par0597	Yes, he couldn't run the House, he didn't stand neutral.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0336par0598	You have no right to lecture us on the culture of compromise, because you have no practice. You have no right to blame us, and I want you to know that.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0337par0600	Thank you, Mr. Gardendoor.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0338par0601	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0337par0602	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0338par0603	Just give me a minute, sir, just a minute.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0339par0604	I'd like that, too.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0337par0605	Mr. Group President, it's not very appropriate to discuss the culture of compromise as well, but here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0339par0606	Mr. President, we agreed, but you see us! We made a deal, and in two minutes, the international contract would be over.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0337par0607	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0340par0610	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Gardendoor, I stand by my promise. I know what I promised. And you know me very well, and I will never go back on my promise, and I stand by it. This law will pass. Look, Mr. Gardendoor, it's not like you're gonna have to take the 40 minutes down to five minutes, and then you're gonna take it up to fifteen minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0341par0613	It's compromise.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0340par0614	Look, it's not. It's already 40 minutes. You lower 40 minutes to five minutes, and then you say: "Come, let me raise it to fifteen." This means that I raised the price of water from $5 to $100 and then reduced it to $70. That's not true, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0341par0616	Tell me what you've done.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0340par0617	Article 68... look, these arguments go on and on. I don't want to keep arguing anymore. Good luck with the law.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0342par0620	Thank you, Mr. Tünce.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0343par0621	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0342par0622	Mr. Vural, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0344par0623	Look, guys, we had a deal... Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0345par0624	That's enough! You'll shut up! You're gonna shut up!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0344par0625	We agreed, but you see.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0345par0626	Well, then, go ahead. Mr. President, the deal is off, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0346par0627	Congressmans, I believe that the end of these arguments will be a very good compromise, I believe. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0347par0634	Sir, of course, it shouldn't turn into an argument between the AKP (AKP) and CHP (CHP), or its platform to prove itself on this occasion by those who used to be political in the CHP.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0348par0635	No, I'm still in CHP.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0349par0636	He's talking about me, about me!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0347par0637	As valued lawmakers here, I think it's completely pointless to constantly make this stand a means of arguing and teasing each other about something like this, and then to talk about compromise after that. Now, as the National Movement Party here, I'd like to renegotiate our approach to the Civil Code. As the National Movement Party, it is impossible for us to allow the rights of the Civil Code to be taken back. In that respect, the majority must know that the will cannot reverse a proposal that will bring back the rights of political parties on this issue without the consensus of all political parties in this parliament. I've told you before, Essulhü is the most noble of all judgments.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0349par0640	Is that what you're telling me?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0347par0641	Yes, I'm telling you because you're the majority party. In that respect, I have not yet understood your position in this Civil Charter framework, that you are still trying to preserve it in its former way, because you have brought the promise that we will agree on this Civil Charter in Parliament. You have brought the promise, and we will make peace. You have brought the promise. Now, I'm looking, E, we've suggested that... Well, we don't have to accept your offer. So at this point where we come in today, we say our words where we should say our words, and we use all our rights from the Civil Code. In that respect, you came in today, and you said, "Let this bill pass." You said, "We, the National Movement Party, have assured this speaker not to speak, even though he is our speaker of this law, we asked him not to speak, he didn't speak, we will pass it now." In that sense, what we want from you... democracy is a regime. Democracy doesn't work on its own if executives aren't democrats. In this regard, it is our duty to protect Parliamentary law, to uphold law of law of law, to uphold the law of political parties. As part of this mission, I say we will use this nation's bench effectively, in the service of power and opposition, with mutual respect, without breaking our promise, without giving our authority to anyone else. I, like this, have expressed a dissension with Mr. Tüncel's response to the immediate breakdown of this compromise. If you say we're going to get away, you'll have to stand by this compromise until the end. You need to show that strength. In that regard, we, the National Movement Party, stand by whatever promise we make, and when we promise, we keep it. Now I say it's the right of the National Movement Party to expect them to keep that promise both from the AKP and CHP. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0350par0645	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0351par0646	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0350par0647	Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0351par0648	Mr. President, this law will pass or pass! Ms. Ayþenur will pass after all! [[Laughter]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0350par0651	Mr. Tünü... please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0352par0652	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about teasing for a minute.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0350par0653	You're very welcome, Mr. Group Vice Presidents. It's not very appropriate.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0352par0654	Wait a minute, I want your word on the bullying.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0350par0655	Tell me where you are, please. You're very welcome, Mr. Group Vice Presidents. It's not appropriate.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0352par0656	But there's teasing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0350par0657	We're sure there's no such thing as you.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0352par0658	Mr. President, my name is not a name for comedy; please, there's teasing, I want a promise.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0353par0659	Sir, get the transcripts, any bullying we haven't heard.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0354par0660	Who picked on you?
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0355par0661	Come in, I'll give you a minute, please let's not get ahead of ourselves. I hope we're talking about improving our culture of compromise. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0356par0665	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not going to say anything, of course, let's compromise, of course, let's all work together, you know, laugh at our laws together and not hurt each other in our arguments, but the next...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0357par0667	Ayþe Nur Haným, laughing suits you!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0356par0668	Laughing always suits me, and I wish it suits you! Now, for a conversation I just had, Mr. Vural is about to be mixed up with a joke...
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0358par0670	Oh, we get it, you're old left-wing, but why do you do things so hostile to nationalists? Don't tease me, you're looking at us! I mean, you used to be left-handed.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0356par0671	...and he makes jokes about me being a CHP guy in the past. Look, my fellow lawmakers, I'm not ashamed of my past. And I don't regret my past. That's in the past. I took enough lessons from him. I'm looking at today and looking at tomorrow.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0359par0672	Yesterday is yesterday, today is today! I really didn't want to be in that position. I swear to God, I swear to God.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0356par0673	I'm here because I look at today and tomorrow and because I trust the AK PARTY. I'm proud of that, too. I invite you, too.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0359par0675	You're the tenants there, but you'll be back when your contract is over!
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0360par0676	I mean, you don't have to look so hostile to nationalism, the MHP.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0356par0677	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-15sit04spe0361par0679	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Gardendoor. [[Continue]] The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE UNIVERSE OF NUCLEER TERROMISM PROGRESSING TO THE PRODUCTION OF THE AUDIENCE MADDE 1- (1) was approved on September 14, 2005 in New York with the declaration and check of the International Convention on the Protection of Nuclear Terrorism. There's no demand for word on matter. No questions, no answers. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There's no demand for word on matter. No questions, no answers. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for word on matter. No questions, no answers. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, the bill of the National Convention on the Protection of Nuclear Terrorism is in accordance with a clear vote: ▪ Number of votes used: 261 [[x]] Muhammad Bilal Macit Fatih Şahin (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will now begin negotiations with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission Report, which is in the 10th place between the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, and Esendere and Sero Kara Border Gates, in accordance with the Joint Use of Agreement. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran between Turkey and Iran and the Government of Iran in Turkey-Iran. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission will no longer be available and the groups have agreed, it is 13 p.m. on Thursday (February 16th 2012) to discuss legislation and proposals in order to discuss other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
