tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 48th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can respond to these conversations. The government's response time is 20 minutes. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Adana MP Mehmet Şükrü Erdinç, who wants to address the anniversary of Adana province's liberation from enemy occupation. Here you go, Mr. Erdinç.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, on the occasion of the anniversary of the liberation of our Adana from enemy invasion, I have taken a solemn pledge, which I hereby salute your grand delegation. January 5, 2012, the 90th anniversary of Adana's deliverance from enemy occupation. It's France, which refers to the enemy in this statement, which, up until a few weeks ago, is the country of the parliament, which, in the face of the world's public opinion, has accused Turkey of committing Armenian genocide, and in turn, has agreed to reject this absurd and unresponsible claim as a crime in its own penal code. Yes, France literally occupied our Adana from 18 December 1918 until January 5, 1922, when the last French soldier left. In this occupation, France has now taken the courage of its ally from Armenians, thousands of local Muslim people, literally slaughtered and burned the city to the ground. It is not possible for any reasonable person in the world to accept the French Parliament's arrangement to support the Armenian claims that are based on falsifying historical facts. This decision has no reputation with the people of the world, especially our people. Sooner or later, the text of the decision, which is being expressed by these unrealistic claims, free of historical realities and only aims to make a few Armenian diasporas happy, would be found in the trash of history. There is absolutely no such shame in our history, but everyone knows the fact that there are millions of innocent people murdered in the history of France, the black continent of Africa, who are trying to glue this label to us. Millions of people who were slaughtered in the land that the white man invaded to exploit their riches above and below are today one of the leading members of the history of the world's oppressed nations. One of the best - known areas is Adana, who was occupied for two and a half years before the Salvation War. Now, I'd like to present a few examples of domestic violence in our city. The events of Adana from the pen of Ahmet Remzi Bey, the founder of the New Adana newspaper, were described as: The Crossing Butcher Cross of Armenian butchers Misak the Butcher and his brothers of the Colakians, and many other Armenian butchers, who walked on Muslims, even though they had lines in their hands, they put their bodies on live hooks and cut their limbs as if they were animals. Today on the road we call Abidin Pasha Street, Kubat Pasha Medresesi, they raided the classroom and martyred Haderris Hadji İsmail Efendi with a cross on his forehead. The Muezzini Muezzini of the Oil Mosque killed Mehmet Efendi when he was in the minaret. In Saimbeyli, the most common example of the atrocities and the so-called genocide of Armenians against our citizens is still known in our region as the Angel Hatun Network. These atrocities committed by Sergeant Aram and his men, who aided the French forces that occupied the region, have come to this day with the descriptions of a small witness called Melek Hatun. Dear lawmakers, French and Armenian gangsters who carried out these and such incidents continued until January 5, 1922. Even so, I condemn once again the mindset that we never, ever, ever, ever tried to put on the floor, with mercy, with gratitude, to remember the heroes who lost their lives in the struggle for our island's salvation.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0003par0021	Thank you, Mr. Erdinç. Mr. Halaman, you're in the system, are you going to talk about salvation, sir?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0004par0023	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0003par0024	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0004par0027	Dear President, the esteemed MPs are the day of the liberation of Adana, January 5, 1922. Adana is the first place the national struggle breathes. I ask God's mercy for all Adanans who have been martyred by the struggle. I celebrate the salvation of all Adanans, and pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0003par0029	Thank you. Mr. Fatosh Gürkan, Adana MP.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0005par0032	Thank you, Mr. President. Today I too celebrate the day of our salvation of Adana. The first fire of the national struggle was burned in Adana. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk also said that the first attempt by this guardian was in Adana. To our national struggle heroes, to whom we have come, to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, to his comrades, to his hero Tayyar Rahmi, to Nene Hatun, and to our other heroic mothers, to our grandmothers, to my thanks, to the day of salvation, to the day of our islanders, to the day of our salvation, to the day of our salvation. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0006par0036	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan. The second statement outside the agenda belongs to Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu, who wants to talk about the state's situation after the rulings. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0007par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. You know, 35 laws have been issued. Almost all of these contained regulations concerning the state, concerning the ministries. After all, a different state structure emerged. I have made a promise to inform you of these matters. My respects to all of you. You know, we're going through a global crisis. The global crisis is also a structural crisis. So it's not just about the economy, it's a crisis that affects every institution. Meanwhile, the state is headed by institutions that will be most affected, and the state mechanism will be very affected by this crisis. The speakers, most often speaking from this platform, often use the word "live man so that the state can live." I agree with that, but it's a beautiful word, a word that keeps the state very ahead of itself, and it's a beautiful, human being in that respect, but there's also a part of it that we need to know, after all of this, what kind of state is forming, after all of these laws, after the global crisis in the economy, what kind of logic this state has, we need to look at together, and we need to look at it together, and we need to look at it as a very good legal body. I don't want to say that the Republic of Turkey already owns the most vehicles -- you know -- in other countries, when it's around 10,000, we have around 86,000 in developed countries, and this year we've split 273 million liras, 4.650 more vehicles will be bought. I don't want to say this, we talked about this in the budget. Other than that, there are some very important problems. For example, there's a lot of chaos in the public, the bureaucracy, the ministries, there's chaos, there's trouble among bureaucrats, and there's morale, I can assure you, there's a lot of trouble. The most obvious feature is the end of the review boards. The end of the inspection boards is not over, but an inspection period is over, and there is no unit in the public that is currently in charge of the inspection. In practice -- there are some places on paper -- the audit is over, and, of course, information about corruption is not available, the audits are not done enough; it's a very important issue in the matter of the state that comes after the decrees. The expert was a very important unit in the bureaucracy, and in terms of its very important future, the expertise is up, we can't define expertise anymore, career is out of business, many careers have been destroyed, many careers have been destroyed. Look, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has made six organizational changes in this period, five times, three ministries three times, two times a change, and since May, there have been around 5,000 triple decrees, about 5,000. Look, the government's upside down. 118,409 new staffed, 3,876 investigative staff, all the assistant managers, managers, former chefs. I'm not telling you this because we've had trouble with the staff close to us; look, there's chaos in the state, there's trouble, I'm saying that specifically. Other than that, there's a huge problem with the appointment of the Deputy Prime Minister. Deputy prime ministers, ministers are appointed according to the Constitution, the Deputy Prime Minister is not the minister at the moment -- look, it's a very important issue -- and there is a legal scandal here. We need to know very well. We're discussing equal pay for the job, we'll continue today, it's a scandal. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm out of time. Thank you very much. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0008par0058	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan, who asked for a statement on Law of Authority 6223. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0009par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of the law, I have been sworn in by Act 6223. I salute the grand jury. In the provisions governing the Constitution's law of authority, the law shall show the purpose, scope, principles, the duration of its use, and the duration of its law shall not be issued more than one decree. Based on the law-ordered law of unspecified authority, it brings constant debate, constant anxiety, and fear. As a matter of fact, in the laws passed under the authority of the law, those words are at a very high stage. Under the regulations, the state bureaucracy was broken down, and the appointments that had to be made with the appointment order had even turned their own bodies into massacres as a result of the dissolution of the staff under the rule of law. The massacre has continued in the municipalities. Norm, the government is not just trying to save funds for investment. Another goal is that mayors who promise jobs to the public want to hire subcontractors, temporary, non-union-free, minimum wage workers instead of job-secure workers sent to other institutions. In talks on the law of authority, my speech from this platform and before the Talks at the Plan and Budget Commission have been highlighted with a review of the Commission's work against the Constitution and the Civil Code and the failure of the Constitutional Commission, which violates the entire declaration of opposition written. This issue has been ignored by Mr. President in the process of ratification of the Law. For reasons such as public conscience, Mr. President's scales, which have recently been highly sensitive, have been baffled by the Law of Authority 6223. However, there are signs given to the President by the ruling party. For example, the President of the Constitutional Commission, which is a commission on the Law of Law, and should discuss the bill in accordance with the Constitution, has to make it clear that the members of the Commission will not give their opinion on such an important matter, without having to take their opinion as a secondary commission, will refrain from giving a clear opinion on the bill that is contrary to the Constitution. Even this incident was sufficient for the President to be alerted. In fact, you can be a member of the ruling party, you can be President of the Constitutional Commission, you can say some things, and then you can do the opposite. The power of attorney for the nation is not fit to transfer to someone or the body by proxy again. The authority to issue a decree under the rule of law is not possible to base it on some kind of long-standing constitutional tradition, especially under the influence of the opinion of the age of law enforcement. Because it can't be a tradition against a rule of law. You can also defend the idea. If the Law of Legislature is disabled, the laws of the law are also invalid. In addition to the most comprehensive regulation of the administrative agency, Code No. 666 has made a bilateral segregation among the officers, as well as those above, which has already made the system more complicated. This Law of Legislatives is inadmissible. The invitation was made when the Commissioner was abroad. His signature isn't certain when it was signed. We present to the attention of our President. We'll write letters if we have to. The reason we didn't write letters before is because he approved everything. Let's have it examined by the State Control Board, and we're taking advantage of that. Maybe as a case, status, we can at least contribute to the history of Turkish democracy. Thank you, my respects, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0010par0075	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Mr. Vural, you have a request for your position. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0011par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, we asked the Secretary of Defense a question during these pricey military talks here, what's the opinion of the Chief of Staff? And what if Mr. Secretary of Defense says yes? What if he doesn't say yes? I mean, who can say anything over the House? And then the voices of the AK PARTY were greeted with applause by the apostle of democracy. Today we see that the Secretary of State has apologized to the Chief of Staff for that statement. At that time, Mr. National Defence Minister must also apologize to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and those applauding in the AK PARTY ranks must receive that applause back. I wanted to present this to the Council's information. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0012par0084	Thank you. He's on the books, sir. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are two motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to Turkey's problems with the animal industry, particularly the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions, and the reasons for the rise in the price of red meat, and the opening of Parliamental Research under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to investigate measures taken on these issues. Thousands of villages have been evacuated in Eastern and Southeast Anatolia regions and thousands of other citizens have been forced to emigrate due to violence and conflicting environments in Turkey that have been in place for nearly 30 years. However, factors such as the curfew, minening land, preventing agriculture in areas outside the village have brought agriculture and animalism, the main source of livelihood in the region, to the point of collapse, and rural socio-economic dynamics are almost completely destroyed. In addition, the decline in animal presence as a result of the overall miscreation of animal animal animal policy has led to declines in the production of animal food products, raising the price of red meat because the supply for the needs of the current demand has not been increased. Turkey's annual need for red meat is an average of 1,300,000 tonnes. Less than half of this amount is released under the average record of 600,000 tonnes a year. The rest is covered with imports and illegals. To close the gap, animal presence and meat production must be increased. In this regard, animal support is of great importance. In the last year, there has been a 70 to 80 percent increase in the price of red meat. In recent years, the price of food and input has greatly contributed to the low price of milk and meat in which animals were sent to the slaughter. The biggest factor, however, is the lack of a long-term and sustainable policy on animalism, and the lack of incentives can say that our animal existence has been severely reduced. By the mid-1980s, animal presence in Turkey, the richest country in the Middle East, has declined over the years. According to data from the Turkish Statistical Agency, over 40 million small animals in 1990 have reduced the number of small animals by half in the past 21 years to less than 20 million. The decline in animal numbers has been reflected in meat prices, so a situation has arisen against the final consumer. The import of meat has not even created a temporary solution, but at the moment, meat prices have increased more and more. The production of long-term policies, the realistic support of producers, and the need to boost our animal existence. Urgent measures must be taken to ensure the closure of scissors between producer prices and consumer prices and to ensure stability in the price of red meat and prevent speculation. In particular, steps must be taken to re-enact the animal industry, which is almost the largest source of livelihood in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions, primarily to end the conflicting environment. In addition, the removal of the bans on the bow and the removal of the mera from the mines and the restoration of return to the village must be carried out with absolute certainty. New measures must be taken and support tools must be activated for the restructuring of animalism. Structural decisions must be made to reduce prices in the livestock and meat industry, prevent imports. Under the circumstances that cannot be achieved, the animal industry in Turkey will become completely dependent on the outside. For reasons mentioned above, it is inevitable that a Parliamentary Research will be opened to investigate measures to improve the presence of animals in Turkey, prevent speculations affecting red meat prices and to ensure stability and to detect problems in support of the livestock sector. [[Pain]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] 6) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under our country's signature, the "Property for the Rights of the Instigators" is tasked with "supporting jobs and career development of disabled persons in the business market" and "employing obstacles in the public sector." As highlighted in the contract, the employment of disabled citizens is the most important way to increase the quality of independent living and living. In this regard, the government has important tasks. The state is obliged to create jobs for those of us who are disabled who can afford to continue their lives. However, despite the open provisions in our constitution and legislation, it is impossible to say that the state has fulfilled its obligations to our disabled citizens. Therefore, in our country, we propose the opening of Parliamentary Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th Civil Charter, in order to determine the problems and measures that should be taken in order to determine the lack of sound and adequate implementation of the legislation on the employment of the disabled. 03.10.2011 Laws, regulations, including Articles 10th and 61st of our constitution, have been imposed on the rights of our disabled citizens in general and notifications, and have been tasked with protecting these rights and protecting our disabled citizens. However, because these rights and the state's duties are ignored in the practice, nine million disabled citizens of our country are forced to live without some basic rights, making up 12.9 per cent of the total population of our country. Our disabled are deprived of the right to work, independent living and quality of life, one of the most important of these rights. One of the most effective tools for the integration of disabled citizens into society is that the Central Administration does not carry out its duties in employment. Public institutions and organisations under Law 657 are obliged to employ as many as 3 per cent of the staff of full officers as disabled. According to this rate, there are more than 50,000 disabled employees in public who need jobs. However, 70 per cent of the staff in question is kept blank. In accordance with the labour laws, more than 50 employees are required to employ three per cent disabled or ex-cons, but the private sector does not approach this situation with sufficient sensitivity, not enough use of state control authority. Only one of the five disabled people in our country can join the labor force, and only one of the five can be employed. So only one of our twenty-five disabled citizens can work. This shows that the disabled have to live in a state and others outside of production. For the few disabled citizens who have the chance to be employed, there is not enough sensitivity in their working conditions, but some of our disabled people are forced to work off the books outside of their social security umbrellas. On the other hand, the training of disabled persons in terms of the specifics and requirements of the business market, the professional skills, and the preparation for the conditions of the business market are also among the duties of the state, but it is not sensitive enough. 88 per cent of our disabled are unable to benefit from education, 99 per cent from the vocational and skill-making service. If a state can't provide its disabled citizens with basic human rights and lets some of them do things that don't suit human dignity, then the possibility of saying that the state is a modern state is gone. Given that the approach to disadvantaged groups is one of the most fundamental criteria for whether a state is a modern state, the lack of even a healthy disabled database in our country clearly reveals the state's sensitivity to the disabled. For these reasons, we have reason to believe that it would be appropriate to open a Parliamentary Research to determine the measures that should be taken by our Supreme Assembly, especially by the problems with employment policies for our disabled, including the law-breakers in the public sector. [[İstanbul]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Inconceived]] 8) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] 10) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 13) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 14) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[40s.]] 16) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 17) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[Erzincan]] [[Adıyaman]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Now, there's a general debate motion that I'm going to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As part of the missile shield project, we propose and propose that the Constitution be held under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution shall be held in accordance with the Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, with sufficient assurances at the point of harming the local people in a possible attack, to address issues such as to protect Turkey's interests. The project of the missile shield, first designed as a US project, is being tried to be realized as a NATO project after years. According to media information, the agreement on the deployment of radars designed as part of the missile shield project in Malatya Globecik was signed by US Ambassador Francis Ricciardone and Undersecretary of State Feridun Grumpyoglu. Surveillance of the process on the missile shield reveals that both public and TBM are missing information and that Turkey is wanted to face the end. It is clear that it is not a democracy to hide from the TBMM that is important enough to turn Turkey into a side and front of a possible conflict. A memorandum of understanding signed between the US and Turkish authorities lacks legal basis, and the Constitution lacks 92. It has an open discrepancy in the matter. The constitution is 92. Under the article, the Turkish Parliament has the authority to allow foreign armed forces to be found in Turkey. As much as this agreement lacks legal basis, it does not respond to Turkey's need for security and does not comply with Turkey's interests. Turkish people do not know if they will be harmed in a possible missile attack. However, it is clear that there can be no technical guarantee. It is not known to the public what the agreement has gained at the point of Turkey's service to its interests. The absence of a statement to the Turkish people suggests that political power has compromised foreign policy in order to protect its own power. In print and visual media, US diplomats explained that this system was built against Iran and was intended to protect Israel. These statements also show that the system serves other than Turkey's interests. The Prime Minister's conflicting statements confirm these views. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on this project stated that "as a member of NATO, one step will be taken within this scope and who will be given command of this work, especially if such a thing is thought across our territory, it should be given to us, otherwise it is not acceptable to the European High Forces Command." The formation of the missile shield into the Malatian Spherical Zone reveals developments in the world that could lead to polarisation. That'll double the security threat. The damage to human health is also proven by scientific studies of radar facilities and the planned missile shield established in the region. The legal basis of the issue would be right to open a general discussion under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution to consider how the Turkish people would be protected from possible dangers, and what would be in Turkey's interest to deploy this system. [[Malatya]] [[İzmir]] [[Inconceived]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] 7) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 8) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] 10) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] 12) Emine Ulir Tarhan [[Ankara]] 13) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 14) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[Erzincan]] [[Adıyaman]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 21) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] The general meeting motion has been submitted to your information. The motion will take its place on the agenda, and the preliminary discussion on whether or not to open the general meeting will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, Mr. Cemil Cicek, head of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, is visiting our country as the official guest of the Council of Europe Parliament Speaker Mevlüt Sergeantoglu, who has asked to address the General Assembly on Tuesday (January 10th 2012). I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. Among the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Kazakhstan, Professor Ahmet Yesevi, we will resume discussions between the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Historical Republic of Turkey on October 22, 2009 and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, where we are left to discuss the adoption of the Protocol on the implementation of the Turkish-Kazak University of Turkey. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of Ağrı MP Ekrem Çelebi and Bursa MP Hüseyin Şahin, who are in the second place, as well as the Charter and the Budget Commission Report on the Amendment to some Laws. (*) 112 S. Numbered Basmaz 4/ 1/1/2012 is added to the 47th Union Charter. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Yesterday's merger agreed to transfer the proposal to its components. Now we move on to item 1. Since there has been a amendment to more than one clause in the Article 375 by the First Amendment, we will discuss each of the clauses of the article as separate substances. Therefore, I first make you read the first article (a): 375 ACTIONS IN THE WIDOW OF THE BLOOD MADDE 1-27/6/1989 and 375 of the Constitution; A) "Responsors of compensation under Article 3160 of Article 10 of Article 10, " following the declaration of "Resultation," "President of Public Housing Administration," (a) the notice of the same joke (a) was laid out in Article 21/2/1985, "for payment of compensation under Article 4/6/1937 and on Article 3201." İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi on behalf of Republican People's Party Group on behalf of groups of Article 1 (a) on behalf of Article 1 (a). Here you are, Mr. Çelebi, ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0013par0293	Mr. President, I have been promised to speak on behalf of myself on behalf of law proposal 112 rows. I salute the High Council with respect, with love. As you know, according to Law 3160, the need has come to increase the compensation they are receiving and to make new arrangements for other regulations made under the law. The offer was prepared to satisfy this need, says the friends when they made the offer. Now, dear friends, this is a clear confession. So there was an application, a regulation in the law, and then it was brought to the front of the House, so let's correct that...... now it's not a place to make Parliamentary laws, but a place to correct the laws and decrees of the law. So the legal provisions that have been removed from the agenda of this House are being introduced by the decree of the law, and then Congress is bringing it to our attention so that we can correct it. First, it must be put to an end to this law enforcement exercise, the will of the House must respond to all laws, find its place, and this Parliament must really enact these laws. Secondly, dear friends, what is the reason for this law? What does he want to explain, fellas? There was an injustice. Let's get it over with. Let's get the equal pay back for the equal work. Now the ministers aren't here anyway. The Home Secretary was here yesterday, the Secretary of Defense was here; we asked questions, we didn't get enough of their answers last night. And I ask you again today, from this bench: Is this lack only on these three fundamental issues? No. In many areas there is inequality, injustice, and injustice to others by decree of that law. But most importantly, dear friends, in modern countries, such laws, such details are not written. In modern countries, basic topics are provided, constitutional order is established, basic topics are provided. Such provisions are provided with the rights given to unions; these are texts to be resolved by collective agreements. So we've started a process here, here, in this House, that's beyond the law-making process, that's almost interfered with the collective contract arrangement. So, in fact, in modern countries, in Western countries, these problems are solved through unions. The Swedish police union was founded in 1886. Again, the officers' union was established in 1886. Now, when these problems, these injustices, are being solved by the hands of unions and they have rights like this, we come to the agenda of this House, and we bring the problem of each individual to the agenda. Now we call it equal work. On the one hand, we left no letters in the alphabet, 4/A, 4/B, 4/C, contracted staff, paid staff, subcontractor practice, temporary staff, so even under the roof of this House, there are people who work in a very different status that we see a lot of applications together. They do the same job, same amount of production, same waitressing, one on staff, one under contract, one subcontractor. Again -- our National Minister of Education is here -- think of a educational system, dear friends, staffed, contracted, paid. So now, they're teaching, teaching in three different schools, teachers working in separate positions, there's no equality there. Other, there's no equality with employees in this country. Where are we looking for equality? Basic tight spaces. There's a law order under the name "Let's settle the basic tight spaces, let's make equality out of them." Dear friends, let's do this first: look, we need to put this table first, we need to discuss what you're doing in Turkey in the economy that is always being sold out as a forward democracy, that's being passed on to advanced democracy, that's what Turkey is growing up in. Just yesterday, just near the capital, in the neighbouring district, because workers in Gerede were using their basic rights, they acted because they were working without insurance, because they were working illegally. What's the reward? Cop, gas bombs. So they're using their basic rights, they're rioting because they're running us without insurance, they're rioting because they're running us without a union, they're running us without an organization, they're operating for the same wages for years. His punishment is either baton or gas bombs. Now, what justice do you provide? Don't we need to put the growing economy here at what cost, the growing economy? There's talk of growing economies. At what cost? Through people who work under hunger. Just now, the new minimum wage has been set. The new minimum wage has been praised, a lot of approval has been received, and the largest labour confederation has signed under it, and they said: "There is a great consensus. The Confederacy says that if we didn't give enough approval, then it would be even worse. Now, they're showing bad, so instead of taking a stand for the arrangement that should have been better, it would have been worse if we hadn't interfered and signed it. I mean, power doesn't want good, it wants bad, but it's getting a little bit worse to find balance. So, what's the minimum wage, dear friends? According to the figures of the Guinea TÜİKί, you take them on the basis; according to the figures of TÜİK (TİK) the 992 lira hunger limit, minimum wage is 700 lira. So what now? Is it the principle of equality that you work people under the hunger line that solves the problem? And these fees aren't for eight hours' work. Eleven, twelve, thirteen, thirteen, fourteen hours of slavery run by people, and this is supposed to be a small price, and it is proudly put before this community. Dear friends, the main thing to interfere with is the off-the-book economy. The government isn't doing anything about the off-the-book economy. It's about work without a union, Mr. Secretary has been saying here all the time, we're bringing it, it's coming. The obstacles to union rights and freedoms cannot be removed, the obstacles to freedom of organisation cannot be removed. Now, just recently, four of our workers lost their lives. In terms of business accidents, Turkey is the first in Europe and the third in the world. Now, when you're giving advice from this growing economy, listening to stories about it, who's paying the price in this country? The staff pays. There's nothing I can say if a growth that starts in slavery, without preventing the discrimination you've made over that working class, without paying them a reasonable price for human dignity, is based on your consciences. Regarding the pensioners, it is said to have taken care of the policy law, that it has passed through the Council of Ministers, that it does not appear on the agenda of parliament, and that pensioners are dying. They do not ask for charity, and they ask for a life of dignity, in return for what they had spent in the past, and for what they had spent in the past. Thus, the policy of equitable work here is to deceive, to send messages, to play in the window. I say let's give the equal price to both the fair, equal pensioners and the employees and the tradesman of this country. I thank you, all of you, and I give you my regards and my love.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0014par0306	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. On behalf of the groups, the second speaker is Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0015par0310	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have taken a pledge to present the views of the National Party of Action about the 1st Amendment (a) of Bill 112. I hereby salute your high council. For general reasons, the compensation of the pilots and frogmen in the General Directorate of Security, under Law 3160, is to be increased in parallel with the regulation of Law 2629 under the Law No. 666, which is clearly forgotten in a hurry. It is also called regulations under the Law Code No. 666. God knows what's going on... we're looking at the reasons for the material right now: Article 1 is the reason for this article: the maintenance of existing legislation provisions for members of the executive staff and for the staff of the Public Housing Administration from those who have been assigned to compensation areas under the Law 3160, as well as for staff in the same or similar staffs and tasks in the institutions, it is intended to be paid at the same level. (ÇT/TK) Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, It was wrong, and now we're trying to correct wrong with wrong. To whom, how would you describe this? This is not a matter for the government to make amends. What does this do for a government that does wrong, that does wrong on purpose? A member of parliament is coming to his aid, and he says, "Don't let our friends at the Community Housing Authority get into trouble." Why? A friend who took 4,000 liras in the line of duty, when he left the post, it went down to 1,900 liras, 2,000 liras. And how do you make an arrangement to a public housing agency that you love so much, to a housing agency that you're so dedicated to, where is it true? We like the people there. We say it works, we say it works, you say it's the brightest face of the government. So, what did these people do to you that made you do such a bad thing? I think it's not a problem of the government, or I think we've done wrong, we've made it look like we've disgraced these people, so let's not let him touch us at all, I apologize to a friend of ours about this, but let's make an offer to make it right, let's make it right, let's make it good with the House Management staff. That's what I think. Half of the commission report belongs to TOKI. HOW a government tortures him, I will tell him again about the next thing. Would you be so insulted by an institution you love, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary? Now, do you know what it's like? You put a bite in the boy's throat, you put a bite down his throat, you punch him in the back, you punch him in the back, he's almost dead; you punch him in the face. Yeah, what's good about that? What good did you do as a government? What are these guys doing here? He's got a lot of work, how many construction sites he's got abroad, you say. Isn't it a sin to have these people crawling around here on commissions? So the government doesn't care if the Deputy doesn't pay off. Is that possible? Now, it's starting to sound different, maybe the Congressman dared him. What is performance in your own way? You can also consider it as an opinion, and you can also say that the reason for the material is that it changes number 666, 375. Now, you're trying to correct your work with the decree by law. We said that on the commissions. What's important is that in that law of authority -- their arrests on the commission -- the kind of paper that was signed by a commissioner who wasn't here -- is that the commissioners are being invited in an irregular way -- what's going on? The President had to watch out for him. What would you call it with an unsigned signature? That's the trouble. I'm having trouble understanding how Mr. Speaker sent this that day, how the President jumped. Now, you see, the first-term analysis total of 2003 and 2011 is 4,28,000 Turkish construction licenses, and that's the number of apartments. 40 percent of this is in three major cities, and more than half is in Istanbul, around 900,000. When the Prime Minister is mayor, let him enter Istanbul with a passport. He gives 900,000 additional licenses -- what does he do -- where he calls it? It's not like it's an urban transformation or anything. It has a logic in it. What's rational about that, what's straight about it? You're looking at building permits in the same period, 56 percent of these apartments, a little over half of them -- let's say 2,300,000 -- have permission to use structures, 31 percent of them in three major cities. So only half of the apartments in Turkey have been allowed to use structures since the AKP arrived. 47 per cent of the apartments that were allowed to use the structure are in three major cities, 31 per cent of them. 52% of production permits in three major cities are in Ankara. People don't even need permission to use structures in Istanbul. Now, it's 73 per cent in Ankara, 96 per cent in İzmir, 22 per cent in İstanbul. In other words, in three major counties, it's 47 percent. You've raised the average construction value from 39,000 liras to 91,000 liras. So in 2003, when an apartment cost $39,000, you brought the cost of this apartment to $91,000. These are official numbers, and if you can't find them, I have them, and I'll give you their accounts. Ay ay, I've been following them. And the cost of the square meter went from $2246 to $610, which is about three times that. As the majority of the bill was discussed yesterday, the Minister's report on the Commission led to the involuntary victimization of Turkish Cypriot personnel as a result of regulations carried out under Code 666. For this reason, the offer to repair is said to be well received. On purpose, we asked, "When are you going to correct your victims?," he said, "Can people be victimized knowingly?" So, what's this you're doing? What is this you're doing? You're ruining the organization you call "eye-baby." Tomorrow, people from other institutions, people from the Statistical Institute that depend on you, what do you say to that? What are you gonna fix this with? Aren't you going to bring him the law? Now, I want to say something, really, this job was wrong at first. If the AKP government panics, doesn't know where the arrangements are, where the wrongs are, which institution says I did it, which institution says I did it, which institution says you burned me down, you're trying to pour water in there. If you had come to this Parliament with a proper bill, if we had discussed the Law of Authority like that, what would it have done if the commissions had not been called upon to fill out the non-signs? He made a proper law, and so did the law of authority. It's a mess, it's not a fix, it's a pain in the ass, Mr. Secretary. Now, what is it that's done to run the House? You turn the pedal like a broken bike, but the pedal doesn't take you forward. These people are sitting here from their overtime to make amends for the wrongs you've done. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You're sitting there because you can't answer the questions we're going to ask. Otherwise, let them do their job in their place.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0016par0321	Mr. Ayhan, thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0015par0322	Thank you, Mr. President. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0016par0325	On behalf of the group, the third speaker is Mr. Idris Baluken, the Bingol MP on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Bauken. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0017par0328	Thank you, Mr. President. I've been shot! In the hollow throat of the mountains, At the dawn prayer, I'll go to bed. Bloody, long. I've been shot! My dream, black from nights, I can't do any good. They take my life without death, I can't fit the books, A general who ordered the password, I've been shot, no questions asked, no judgment. They carried out the death warrant. Blue mountain smoke, And he sleepeth at dawn, and sleepeth at dawn, They've got blood on them. And then, right there, the gun went off, They called. They went through it. Take my belt of Kirmanshah, They took away my rosary, my layer. It was all a gift, Acem. We're dirty, we're brothers, we're bound by blood. The villages across the street, with their obas, We've taken girls for centuries. We're neighbors. Our chickens get mixed up. It's not that I don't know, For the exorbitant, We're not hot for passports. That's why we're guilty of murder. Our name comes up to the outlaw, To the smuggler, To the robber, Son of a... Write my Kirvem like that. Maybe it'll be a rumor, It's not rose boobs, Domdom bullet, It's in my mouth... In fact, I was going to have this conversation yesterday when the Minister of the Interior, the poet friend, the art expert, was here, and I wrote this poem for him, which I thought was responsible for the massacre in the village of Roboski in Uludere. Both the Home Secretary and the Minister of Defense, who should have been in a position to resign yesterday, they wanted to surface here and move it to a completely different dimension, to a different authority. To condemn it again, with this poem, I wanted to share with you the pain of this profound massacre that history repeats. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, we have come to a process in which we can no longer reach the funerals that have been suffering more and more and more and more during the process that we've been through, and now the massacres have presented to us. As we own these massacres, you see the answers given to us as we argue that those responsible for these massacres should be brought to justice. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan continues with sentences leading from the seed of hypocrisy to rooting, rooting literature, rooting out, to terror extensions, to going after the demon, and insults with sentences that stink of toilets. Of course, none of this prevents us from ignoring this massacre. Until the people responsible for this massacre are judged, I would like to share with you again that we will take this incident to all platforms on national and international levels until all those responsible are brought to justice in some way. We're in complete remorse about the events that have happened. It's the conscience of a people who are blind, deaf, dumb about all the deaths. Look, peace mothers came here a few days ago. When these peace mothers came here to address their own pain in order not to have funerals in their laps any more, and to give a voice to the MPs in this parliament, where there is a solution, no lawmakers wondered, and did not even have a meeting with these mothers of peace. When these peace mothers arrived, they said: "Stop these political genocide operations. As these practices, which you send our children to prison daily, do not provide a solution to the problem, it deepens its unresolved problem -- the Kurdish problem -- every day. When you do military operations every day, they told us that you don't do anything except raise funerals every day to both us and Turkish mothers and mothers in Anatolia. They said you don't bring any solutions. Terminate the process. They said, "As if the torture system in the empire was not enough, you are increasing the conflicting process day after day with the isolation you have imposed." When they said that, like the MPs here, they didn't approach it through a political account. They compared the number of funerals that came into their laps during the approach to Imralı with dialogue and negotiations with the number of funerals during the isolation period. However, we are faced with a Parliamentary exercise that is completely closed from the calls of peace mothers, which does not involve its own conscience. It's not only the mothers of peace who call, but the mothers of soldiers who die. Look, what you don't want to see is that in the last week, we've been called by their mothers, six soldiers called "suicides" -- all of which is an interesting coincidence that they're all Kurds. The mother of Private Ahmet Sezgin, who was said to have committed suicide, is making this call. Again, the mother of an unidentified soldier, who was said to have died of an accidental bullet, makes this call. In the village of Elaziğ Poyraz, the mother of Van Lütfü Esmer. This is the call from the mother of the Urban Farmers of Samaria, who was said to have committed suicide in Antwerp Islam. The mother of a Malatian private Kahyaoğlu, who was said to have committed suicide in Inebolu, makes this call. The mother of the Dersimli Deniz Patriot, who was said to have committed suicide in Gallipoli district of Çanakkale, makes this call. We now have a conscientious responsibility to somehow listen to these calls, to bring in a conscientious accounting and to bring in a solution to these sufferings. Now, let's come up here with our own suggestions on the legislation and the bill that we want to do as much as we want, to be a part of a solution project or a set of regulations about the law at which we see that it is lacking, and unfortunately, you're not doing anything because you run the House with your own practices, your own laws, your own laws, your own decrees of the law. So, at least I want to point out that it's very important to enter into a conscience accounting for the country's main problems. Of course, there is a bill of law on the TOKI (TİKI) that is being discussed in accordance with the law. At the very least, we would like to make some identification on the current situation of TOKI. In particular, in recent years, I would like to point out that the TOKI (TİKI) has taken on a identity, a government that has been trading on these sufferings rather than on a institutional structure that has removed the victims of our people in these earthquakes and natural disasters. In particular, you showed a practice that allowed over 500,000 people to spend a winter in a tent. You were indeed in a position to be applauded for. But still, every friend who comes here about the Van earthquake brings out a picture as if it were all roses and roses. I'd like to give you the most concrete example of this earthquake trade done by the Turkish People about my own constituency, Bingol. In Bingol, 58 per cent of the city affected by the earthquake did not declare a natural disaster. This government and its dwellings, which were not declared a natural disaster, were brought before the victims of the Bingolite much more than its cost. See, at that time, the cost of an earthquake dwelling of TOBB (ToBB) was 29,000 in Bingol, while the cost was raised by TOKI as about 40,000, 40,000, 38,000, and 40,000. At that time, the money for a number of dwellings that the TOBB and businessmen had given as a grant -- for example, 15 million TL -- was not reflected in the debt of the citizen's dwelling, and the TOKI intended to make a profit from it, at about twice the cost of other dwellings. In particular, we find that the cost of the housing he will build in the Inöne neighborhood, along with the local government, is too high for the surrounding provinces, according to the surrounding provinces. For example, a 120 square metre apartment costs 156,000...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0018par0380	Thank you, Mr. Bauken, your time is up.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0017par0381	I'll be done in a minute.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0018par0382	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0017par0383	168 square meters is subtracted at 218 thousand. Same square meter...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0018par0384	Mr. Baluken, thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0017par0385	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0018par0387	Members of parliament, on behalf of Denizli MP Mehmet Yüksel. Here you are, Mr. Ascendant. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0019par0391	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the 1st Amendment of the Law Proposal (a) and the 375th Amendment to the Law Act we're discussing. I salute your high council with love and respect. Mr. President, it is intended that the amendment to Article 1 (a) of the Law Proposal for Amendments in some Laws and 375 Laws shall be made to maintain the current legislation provisions for the members of the executive staff and for the members of the Community Housing Administration staff, as well as for staff in the same and similar tasks in the institutions. A amendment has been made to Law No. 666 and Article 2629, and improvements have been made in the compensation of staff in the Turkish Armed Forces who have carried out specific tasks. In parallel with this, the increased compensations the men of pilots and frogs, who have carried out similar tasks in law enforcement, according to Law 3160, have revealed the need for new regulations for the judicial decree to be made. The arrangement we are meeting is designed to satisfy the need for this law. AS is known, TOKI is conducting very important projects in the production of adequate and qualified housing in healthy and habitable environments in our country. It has produced 518,178 dwellings at 2,206 construction sites in 800 districts, between 2003 and 2012 in TOİ 81 districts, as part of our government's Planned Urbanization and Housing Production Programme. Of these, 204,278 have been applied to the small and medium income group, 141,500, for sub-income and for poor people, and for the slum transformation of 63,352, 22,532, as part of the disaster dwellings, 4,241, as part of the agricultural village practices. A total of 435,903 dwellings produced are social housing. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have raised the President's workload in addition to the duties set out by Law No. 2985, as well as other laws and laws imposed on these duties. The intensive work pace of TOKI personnel speeds up the transition of qualified and qualified personnel to other public institutions and private sectors. This delays many projects run by TOKI. The first article of the law that we are discussing is intended to take into account the increasing workload and qualifications of both the police personnel and the staff of the Public Housing Administration staff to receive the same fee as the staff in the same position as the other institutions, and to eliminate the fee difference. I hereby salute your high council, wishing the law to be a blessing.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0020par0399	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel. Second speaker on behalf of him, Mr. Feramuz Üstüm, member of the Silver House. Here you go, Your Honor.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0021par0402	Dear lawmakers, I have taken a personal oath on the 375th Amendment to the Constitution of Number 112 and on the 1st Amendment of the Law Proposal (a) joke of the 1st Amendment. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have come to light that the compensation they receive according to Law No. 3160 of the men pilot and frog in the Security General Directorate has been required to make a new arrangement for some of the other arrangements made by the Law Code, which is referred to in line with the regulation of Law No. 666. According to Article 10 of Article 1 (a), the 1st article (a) article of Article 10 in Article 1 (a), the payment to be made after the declaration of the Court of Public Housing Administration (also referred to after the declaration of Article 10/1985), the payment of the same joke (also referred to 4/6/1937) to be taken in accordance with the Article 32/01 of the Law (also referred to as Article 21/2/1985), the compensation of those who receive compensation in accordance with Article 3160 of Article 31/1985, the payment to be made to be paid after the declaration of the second report, and the same employee of the same Article 32/6/1937 of the Law (a) shall also be held by the same staff and the same staff on the same level. With equal pay for this arrangement, the motivation of their employees and the rise of efficiency related to it will be provided. I wish you the best of luck to arrange it on this occasion, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0022par0408	Thank you, Your Honor. Congressmans, we're going to do a ten-minute question-and-answer on the 1st article (a). Five minutes for questions, five for answers. In first place, Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0023par0412	Mr. Secretary, of course, the Secretary of State was here yesterday, and there's a law on it. How many people have ever applied to Bedelli military service? If there was an arrangement for the age group and the poor, a different outcome could be achieved. How many people have ever applied? For example, wouldn't it have been a different outcome if we had reduced it to twenty-five years old? And I want to know that if we did it not by 30,000 liras, but by the size of people's paypower, would there be a different outcome?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0022par0414	Mr. Oktay Vural, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0024par0415	Thank you. Mr. President, I will, of course, make a request from the President and the Commissioner. Now, it comes from Plan and Budget Commission 1 (a), (b), (c), (d), and then we discuss the materials separately here. Now, even if the Plan and Budget Commission or commissions do it there, at least it does. Therefore, this difference between the General Assembly and the commission's work must be eliminated. In this way, the General Assembly, groups, lawmakers, and lawmakers would be better informed as to what matter, which of which would be considered as a clause. In this regard, I would like to say that I have benefited from establishing such harmony by establishing an initiative between our Commissioner and the Speaker of Parliament. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0025par0419	Thank you, it's on the books. Mr. Eyidoğan, the Istanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0026par0421	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. President, I have a bill of law on the transformation of areas at risk of disaster. It's a law created in the expectation of urban transformation law. This Law contains the TOKI word at 25 points. I present this to the attention of the High Council.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0025par0423	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0027par0426	Thank you, Mayor. Ankara is the site of the former Traffic Hospital, which is the garden of the current Ufuk University, which has been transferred to the TOKI, but the road has been built with zero buildings, very high. This, of course, was the responsibility of the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality when TOKI did the planning, and he had to object to that plan. Ankara Metropolitan Municipality has filed a sixty-first-day lawsuit against the municipality, which, for whatever reason, has filed all the cases on this plan, and has been rejected in terms of time. What kind of procedure will you make about the city that is not doing its duty? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0028par0429	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0029par0431	Thank you. As part of the urban transformation project conducted by Tokyol and the City Hall of Bingol, the prices of the dwellings have been raised as follows: A 120 square metre apartment of 156,000 square metres, a 168 square meter apartment of 218 thousand square feet, and 248 thousand square feet of flats, but the apartments in the same square metre have been raised by the TOKI in Mersin. What's the reason for this difference? Second: In the 2003 earthquake, the housing costs in the village and in the city were the same. We wonder why such an application was made in villages, even though infrastructure, environmental arrangement and land itself belong to the villagers.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0030par0434	Thank you. Mr. Köse, our majority congressman.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0031par0436	I'm not asking the Minister, I'm actually asking the Minister of National Education, but he's not here, so I'd like to ask the Commissioner. Now, we're making a salary increase in security, we're doing it in TOKI, we're doing it in other places, we're raising parliamentary salaries, but in National Education, we haven't done any sort of fixing, fixing our children in any way that we trust our teachers with our future, and there's never been an arrangement in the last budget. Are they planning to arrange this as soon as possible? That's what I want to ask you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0032par0439	I thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0033par0441	Thank you, Mr. President. There's a question addressed to our commission, and I'll try to use time carefully, and our commissioner will answer the relevant question. How many people have applied for military service? Our friends are looking at it, and we'll pass it on to our deputy as soon as he arrives. So there was a question of what would happen if age fell and the amount was small? Of course, naturally, the decline of age, the decline of price, let's say the economy, the supply demand law, would have had an effect. But when these boundaries are set, of course, the age limit is set, especially considering the needs of our Turkish Armed Forces. But of course, if age were to be much lower, it would have an effect. By the way, information has come in: 7,164 people have applied so far. Of course, the age limit is not entirely possible to draw a conclusion from other hypotheticals, but we know that there's usually around 20 percent application in the past. In the past, there was usually about 20 per cent of the application, about 20 per cent of our covered citizens. And here, until the last day, of course, there's no telling exactly what's going on, so we need to keep an eye on things. Mr. Eyidoğan said that the city's transmutation law passed by TOKI (TİKİ). It's natural. Because TOKI is an institution with an important savings that is also doing very important work in this area today. It will undoubtedly have an active role in our future work, but with different channels, we also need to do this urban transformation, the recovery of our building stock. It's a very important law.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0034par0447	It's the wrong law, Mr. Secretary. The content is wrong, and the style is wrong.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0033par0448	Hopefully, he'll come out of our House in the best possible way with a detailed discussion. Mr. Tanal had a question about Ufuk University. I don't know anything about that. I think it would be healthier for our friends to answer in writing, if you'll excuse me. Mr. Baluken had a question about Bingol; urban transformation. We've really identified our urban conversion field. Toki and I carried out a serious study. The prices they're talking about are not going to apply to our citizens in the area of urban transformation. So our citizens, who are already sitting on very low square feet, will pay no price for their own homes as a price, and they will have a new home. Those prices are only about the part that will be sold commercially. As of today, as far as I know, it's full of applications. It's a central place, one of the most central parts of Bingley. And what we understand is that prices are reasonable: they're actually sold right now. Also, old traffic... We'll look into Mr. Tanal's question later. These are also -- like I said -- people who will buy themselves, prices for volunteer people. Otherwise, they'll have a much more valuable home for free. This will be a great service, I hope.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0035par0454	They make the same meter cheaper in Mersin.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0033par0455	On the other hand, Mr. Köse referred it to our Minister of National Education. So if you'll excuse me, I'll leave the answer to our Minister of National Education on a certain occasion. And I'm putting the rest of the time into our Commissioner's question. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0036par0457	Yes, Commissioner, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0037par0458	Thank you, Mr. President. What Mr. Vural has brought up is a legitimate request, but so far we have not received any demands from the Laws Decisions or related friends. I think we should pay attention to that sensitivity in the future. I think it's especially important to maintain co-direction. As a commission, we will demonstrate the necessary sensitivity in the next process. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0038par0461	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, the first amendment of the proposal (a)...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0039par0463	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit01spe0038par0464	I submit to your votes, I will call the number of decisions that are sufficient: All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a break from the reunion in five minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0038par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 48th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The number of decisions in the vote of Article 1 (a) of Law Proposal 112 had not been found. Now (a) I will put your vote back to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. We'll resume negotiations on the proposal from where we left off. The Commission and the Government are here. Members of parliament, there is a motion to add a new Bent to the clause and to impose a new clause. As they know, the proposed bill or proposal is the fourth Article of Article 87 of the Civil Code, which requires a amendment to a clause that does not exist in the commission text, but is very closely related to the bill or proposal, and will be discussed as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has already attended. Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the commission. If the commission joins the motion, mostly with 21 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit the addition of the current (b) and (c) bent (c) in order to replace (c) and (c) in order of the current (b) in order of the 375 provisions and the 1st amendment of the Law Proposal in some Laws. Mahir Ünal Bedrettin Yıldırım of Ayşe Nur Bahçapılı The first joke of Article 11 (b) has been changed in the form of the Savings Register Insurance Fund (also referred to as the sum) of the firms (also referred to in addition to Article 11). Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0040par0017	There are only so many of us, we agree.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0041par0018	Can you call him, sir? If you count it by raising your hand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0038par0019	Let them take it away, sir. Let them count it.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0040par0020	Mr. President, we need 21 people, 22 of us now.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0038par0021	Thank you. Since the commission has only participated in the motion, I will open the meeting on the motion as a new clause. Anyone want a word on behalf of their group? Mr. Hasip Kaplan, Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu... Mr. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP, please come in, sir. Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0042par0027	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, this bill is prepared, it's legal, it's not enough, it's not enough. A new law proposal was offered 25 days later; it was not enough -- and yet on the way -- the majority of the EC PARTY commits substance in a motion. Now, it's impossible to do a healthy work here with a concept of legislature like this. There's TOKI in the 112 row, the pilot's, the flight crew, the diver's core work. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is talking about a law proposed by the Ministry of National Defense, and of course, we, the opposition here, as the opposition group, are, of course, doing the audit work here, we're asking questions. Yesterday, when the negotiations on the entire proposal of this law were over, I asked Mr. Secretary of Defense a question, saying, "What is the knowledge of intelligence?" Now, with that understanding, with that logic, can this Parliament represent the will of this nation, my friends? With that understanding, can we serve here? Look, the question I took in my hand began when I went to Erciş, where is Ercish? After him, here we come, he's reading poems from Mehmet Akif. A question for a minute, an answer for a minute, no seconds. Mehmet jumps from Akif, reads poems from Bedri Rahmi, then speaks of the justice of Omer. If justice had been in Turkey, if it had been in Turkey, a minister in charge of the commanders would not have read to me here, read poetry, draw any other points; 35 lives have died, come out, share whatever information the government has about it. That's what respect for the House requires. Respect for the House should answer, but Mr. President has not interfered with this irregularity and continues. We ask: "Why did you bomb your brothers? " There is no answer. We say, "Can a Muslim brother be bombed?" There's no answer. Who carried out the massacre, does the government have any information? (There is no answer, and the Minister of Defense of the National Defence says: "I read all about those who carried out the massacre -- friends, please, by leaving it to your conscience -- we refer to God." Mr. Secretary, you can refer to Allah, when you go to the other world, when Münker and Nekir drop the mallet to you, where is your justice, then you will answer, but I will not leave you in this world. I will not leave Nekir and Münker in this world to account for this, our party will not leave, the Peace and Democracy Party will not leave, the conscientious NGOs will not leave, the human rights organizations will not leave, the advocates of justice will not leave, nor will they leave, nor will they leave. I advise you, Mr. Minister, to read the report and study on the massacre of the villagers of Şırnak Province, Uludere (Kılaban) district, Gülyazı (Buceh) and Middlesu (Roboski). Mr. Secretary... who wrote this report, he said he also knew the AK PARTI government as a human rights organization and he's in charge of the assembly. You know the Human Rights Association. He also attends human rights board meetings in the House. You know the Turkish Medical Association, you know KESK, you know workers, you know TMMOB, you know the Association of Modern Lawmakers, and I can't count yet, but you can read the statements of 715 NGOs who have made statements in Diyarbakır. There's a report here with his alibis and papers. We're talking about this. Here, in the back, are the Commissioners. You got them all out. There were pilots here because it was about their self-responsibility issues. When the commissioners sat down, they ran out of room. You're interested in self-responsibility. Look at one issue that the government requires more political responsibility than a debate on self - control. This report points to serious issues. The findings of this report, the live witnesses he's been listening to, are very interesting. There are two survivors and two survivors. 13 wounded died on the road. There was no state for a day, he says. Look, the readings are very bad here. He said he knew us, he knew us. In the eye of the army, the brigade, it was known that they were peasants and unarmed when they were seen by binoculars. There's herons, intelligence weakness. MIT says: I didn't give intel. Well, is the MIT, for God's sake, the head of MIT of the planet Jupiter? In such a grave error, the president of the MIT resigns, the stars of the generals are ripped off, the generals' promotions are halted, the stars are cut off, the account is asked; if the commanders are not responsible; if the commanders are not in charge, the Chief of Staff has not made a mistake; if the President of MIT has not made a mistake, then the political responsibility is in the government. The government acts righteous, virtuous, ethical, moral, conscientious, human, and does what is necessary and resigns. That's virtue. We couldn't place it in the Turkish culture. And you can't discuss the virtue of apologizing on your conscience? I want all EC PARTY MPs and opposition party MPs to read this report. A witness says: "This is your last night." Do you know what terrible things are in here? I don't have much time to read, but I'm going to look at the results and warn the government one more time. What does it say in the conclusion? When I spoke here yesterday -- yes, I'm a 30-year criminal lawyer, I'm an international lawyer -- some AK PARTY MPs reacted to me: how do you say catliam? You know what this report says, fellas? I'll show it to the camera. I didn't write this, it was written by human rights agencies. I'll read it, and you'll see, if you have any objections, you'll do it to them: our mission is that the execution of this incident was an act of unjudgmented murder, and the number of people killed was a mass murder. A mass murder, mass murder, mass murder, mass murder... if anyone has a scientific, legal, human objection to the concept of mass murder, go to these organizations and make their objections. If it proves otherwise... and it's being called here to international organizations, concerned civil society and everyone else. You know what the most painful thing is? When these lives were gone, he asked for a meeting in Şırnak, but not one official from Şırnak Governor to his prosecutor opened the door to this agency's representatives. What are you guys hiding, what? Any chance you could hide it from humanity? (*) A non-English word was expressed by the Minister in this chapter. Now I'm talking here. There's plenty of time, lots of stuff, talk, tell each other, maybe we'll understand. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We'll talk about these motions.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0043par0047	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the second speaker, Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0044par0051	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, my dear friends, you've tried to correct everything by the decree of the law, equal wages, equal rights. On the commission, we said: "Don't mess anything up. " All the commissioners are here. Is there anything in the law that you may have broken? There is absolutely no such thing. After that, in less than a month's time -- wherever there's a victim of rights, we're there for the victim. There's no doubt about it. If there's a right, we'll be on the side of the victim -- they said: "With this decree, there's a right of the TOİ workers." We said, "Let no one be defeated, let no one be victim." But we asked the same question: "Are there any other victims of the rights that you may have broken with a decree?" It was said, "There is absolutely not." Everyone's here. The government was there. Now we're looking at a new substance. Here's the Savings Savings Insurance Fund... We asked you that, you said no. Then why are you bringing it? Why didn't you bring it that day? I offer it to your appreciation. I'm still asking, are there or are there no other victims of the law or not? If I were you, I'd withdraw that law. See if there are any other rights victims... if there are any, it's our duty to correct them. We don't want anyone getting beat up. We don't want anyone getting hurt. Come on, let's all settle down. We don't say we don't, but someone else will come tomorrow. Well, yesterday, you repaired the rights victimship of TOKI. We don't know, we couldn't examine it. We don't know, we don't know. I'm telling you, we don't know if there is or isn't. The new motion came in, we couldn't investigate. We don't know if he's a victim of rights or not. I can't accept the fact that he brought something we don't know and was forced to come here with an imposition to this House. Explain it to us first. They explained, for example, that there was a victim here. We believed, and we saw that he was a victim. But now, with another motion, with an addendum, Savings Insurance... we don't know if there are others. Come on, you fixed these two. So let's say that TOKI is also a victim of rights, and Savings Insurance is also a victim of rights. It's our job to go. Well, if there are others, will they wait forever if they don't come forward during this law? When are they coming? Mr. President, we have a motion in a moment. I wish that this Commission would show the same sensitivity there. While the Turkish Grand National Assembly budget was being discussed, Mr. President, we asked the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- exactly -- whether these decrees would enter the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? We asked him, certainly, no. It's in the records. Two days have passed, and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been issued! Friends, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a legislature with no ties to the executive body. You have the authority to regulate the executive body's own decree. This is where the real law is made. You missed it. So, what did you want with the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? How did the executive body interfere with the authority of the legislature? For years -- clearly in the Constitution -- Turkey is a legislature that has no connection to the executive body as the structure of the Grand National Assembly. Then it is against the Constitution. It is a violation of the Constitution that the Turkish Parliament shall be passed in accordance with the law. The motion is here. The House is the House of all of us. This is the Parliament's own legislature. He decides his own life, he organizes his own employees, his own bureaucrats. We passed an agency law here a month ago. Why did you have us draft the Agency's law if you're going to rule there again? Why did you keep us busy here on the commission for days? If you were going to take it into your own hands, why did you do it? You delayed him too, sent him to the President 15 days later. The same commission, the same sensitivity, for the honor of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, since the Turkish Grand National Assembly is a legislature, will protect its own rights and law, must be excluded from the decree of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This is by the will of the House. The Clave can't get under the will to execute the will, but it has. I wonder, Mr. Commission, how do we, as lawmakers, digest the same sensitivity in the next article, even though the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a constitutional institution, is open to the Constitution? I can't stomach it. Mr. President, it is this Parliament's duty to disqualify the honor and authority of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. That's where I expect the same sensitivity. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0045par0059	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Third speaker, Deputy Director of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır. Here you go, sir. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0046par0064	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. This is the law that we've been talking about since yesterday, and now that we're looking at the transcripts, it's a law that deals with the common questions and concerns of all groups, especially groups of opposition parties. Important talks are being made, important questions are being asked, but Mr. Secretary of the Law is not here. So, I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, but they're in no position to answer the questions asked. In the name of the President of the Commission or of the members of the law who have drawn up this proposal... because in the case being questioned, the failures of amendments to the laws in his place... are being questioned from the implementation of the Constitution 666... and the proposal of the law is being brought here to correct them. What can be said because it has neither been discussed nor owned... yesterday, if you're aware, the ministers didn't get up here and explain the reason for this law, they didn't talk, they didn't answer the questions. So, dear lawmakers, as we've always talked about, we're negotiating a merger, we're negotiating a matter together, but the members of lawmakers have nothing to do with this -- not just for an accusation. Because they don't have the knowledge of the issues brought in under the Law of 666, of the changes made in other laws. The bidders came in here yesterday, but they made a very technical statement. So, dear friends, really, we're discussing a very fundamental, very important problem of Turkey, the administration, the staff regime. A country may have a lot of problems in solving these problems, but if it's balanced, it's shared, it's accepted, it's standardized, it's staff regime, you can provide participation in a sense of inner peace, working peace, you can help solve problems in a sense of justice, but it's about -- as a friend of ours yesterday -- it's about 80 of ours, and it's about half of our society's, and it's about 20 million people in Turkey, who are getting paid in a way from the government, and it's about 20 million people who are going to play with the balance of the staff regime of their families, and it's about -- and it's about two ways to bring the wrongs that we've come up here, and it's not the right way to bring them back here. See, in the last months of the 23rd term, the authority to issue a decree under this law has been issued by our Parliament in accordance with the government's request. At the end of the semester, the reason is that there's an emergency. We couldn't establish an effective government administration with the existing laws, and at the end of the nine years, we didn't get that kind of opportunity. For this reason, give us the authority to issue a decree under the law. The government, which has said, has given authority to the government, and has given us a deadline as of November 2nd. E, this decree was issued on November 2, 2011. It's been two months since January 5th. The majority of these two months are back on the clock to correct the mistakes that the Parliament has made just after the decision was issued on this law, considering the budget, the period of Christmas, and a new effort. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, I report the government to my fellow citizens who follow us. This power, which has ruled Turkey for nine years -- we have given up doing the right -- has been sitting with all its shortcomings and its wrongs, and has upset the balance of staff, and the balance of working life, in such a doorway, with false regulations, we have removed Turkey's nail. Now, we're trying to correct a mistake with TOKI. For God's sake, what institution is there that you haven't disturbed with the Constitution of 666? Dear lawmakers, you pay small wages for employees in the state, you increase your resources; that's not a problem, but if you've caused a loss of rights, loss of balance among government officials, believe me, you'll be taking out the greatest anarchy in Turkey. Now, not only do we rank it, but every friend of ours asks, every speaker comes up here and talks, you correct this mistake in TOKI, how are you going to correct the wrong in national education? So not the negotiations, Mr. ministers, but how are you going to correct the imbalance that you've made with the provisions you've brought in the Court of Law among the members of the Treasury? See, for the first time in its history, finance officers have been protesting in front of the Ministry of Finance. Dear friends, I mean, what's your hurry, what's your obligation, what's your mind, what's your reason, what's your reason? What's the point of pushing this staff regime back into this problem, without being properly prepared, without having to prepare, without having to go through a lot of problems? Now, I'd like to praise the lawmakers of the bidders, but should such a law come as an offer on such an important and technical matter, or should it come as a bill? If he had come as a government bill, he would have been sent to all institutions, and every institution would have come here, expressing the error of this decree in its own institution, and perhaps a bill that would have completed many shortcomings, perhaps possible or perhaps many, but regulations regarding a number of units of the TOKI and the Interior Ministry have come in, a few forgotten, incomplete units. Now, there are hundreds of applications coming into each of our phones, faxes, e-mails, and you've victimized everyone, the same problem with national education. Here you have taken out the arrangement of our friends, the regional manager, the manager, the manager, the manager of the factory, the manager of the company, the manager of the company, and the balance of wages between the units in all institutions. Now, every time you try to run this House to correct the wrong, it's called a chore, you have no right. We respect your authority to rule this country on behalf of this nation, but you will rule it right. If you turn this place into a sabbatical, if you upset the balance that is hard to establish, the staff regime that guarantees this work peace -- someone in this country is bringing chaos to this country by terrorism, outside conditions bring economic crises -- you're breaking your own floor with your own hands. Therefore, I would like to propose to you that this proposal be withdrawn, that it be studied, and that it be reorganized and reorganized by all institutions, in order to correct all these imbalances that have occurred under the Law of 666. Smart behavior, that's making a law. Now, what you're doing here isn't making law, it's not making law, it's breaking law, dear friends. Three days from now, we'll be renegotiating another amendment to another matter here. You're wasting people's time, precious ruling party members.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0047par0075	Mr. Chancer, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0046par0076	I ask that my offer be taken into consideration, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0047par0078	Commissioner Karaman, Mr. Lütfi Elvan, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0048par0080	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In Turkey, there has been a very important problem in our public institutions and institutions that have been going on for years. This problem, especially among bureaucrats, you know, was a pay problem that led to a serious debate from time to time. The heads of the two different ministries, who served in similar tasks, received different fees, and the general managers received different fees. A study has been carried out to address this highly comprehensive bill of law, particularly this wage imbalance between the ministries. Of course, it's a very comprehensive and detailed study. In this study, some of our institutions have been renamed, some of our directorates have been changed. While these studies were being conducted, there may have been some forgotten, undetectable flaws, and we have to accept that.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0049par0082	You said the nicest, huh?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0048par0083	Here, TMSF is one of them. There is no harm done here, of course, by our citizens working there, but this is a problem that may have been overlooked at the time of the study, caused by some mistakes made during that moment. Of course, we, the House, have to solve these problems, and we have to resolve these setbacks. Of course, I agree with this proposal: I think it was said a few days ago, and I think it would be wise to consider it a whole rule of law, and if there are flaws in the law, maybe the failures in a whole form would be brought to parliament as a bill and discussed and concluded in the House. But, of course, we have to fix those flaws. I think it's part of our mission. As for the Grand National Assembly Act: You know, after the law was passed, we held talks on the Agency's Law in our Commission, and we even accepted some changes in the legislation there in our bill, in the bill, and our General Assembly adopted our National Assembly of Turkey Act. Of course, there will be setbacks from time to time, there will be shortcomings, and I think we can discuss them together, and we can bring our country to better points together, and I give you all respect. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0050par0088	Thank you, Mr. Elvan. Any requests on behalf of the individuals? No. Now, we're going to do a ten-minute question-answer procedure. From our friends who have entered the system, our Kütahya MP, Mr. Illum, please come in.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0051par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I asked you yesterday, but I didn't get an answer. In the ministries whose structure has been replaced by the decree of this law, it is the victim of employees assigned to the investigative staff while working in staffs such as branch managers, managers, or district managers. Can an arrangement for this to be resolved be added to this offer? Second: The vice-consul of property managers and sub-mayors were again victimized by these provisions. Is it possible for them to be eliminated? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0052par0096	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Aslanoglu has entered the system, Farit Mevlüt Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0053par0098	No.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0052par0099	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0054par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. About the question Mr. Light asked -- he said he asked yesterday -- I'm guessing he's probably preparing a written answer. But the general principle, of course, is that no one goes back from their current position, which is a different arrangement for those who are doing their current job, but for those who are just starting out. That's the general principle, but if they'll excuse us, let's get a more detailed response. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0055par0103	Thank you. Now, the 1st Article (b) of the newly committed...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0056par0105	Mr. President, the congressman had a question about the estate management.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0055par0106	You want to answer it?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0056par0107	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0055par0108	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0056par0109	Mr. President, in part of the question Mr. Alim Ik Bey has been asked by our esteemed MPs, it has been stated that there has been an arrangement that has carried out the persecution of the governors, the governors, and the governors of property managers, as well as the victims of our trustees. This is not an assessment of the truth. There is no provision that results in the price loss of an officer under Code 666.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0057par0110	This month, the vice governors got less than $160.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0056par0111	There's a general clause that provides that. If there is going to be any reduction in the salary of any professional, there is once, a guarantee that any employee will not go beyond his present state. Besides, there's no reduction in the wages of our property managers. The additional compensations they received from their state's private administration have been removed, but a further improvement was made from their general budget revenues, their monthlys. This matter has not been orchestrated to be abused. The arrangement is an arrangement that takes into account the duties of the management of property, but is it enough? He needs to be better. Thank you for bringing it to my attention. Especially not the first-class management of property.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0057par0112	Mr. Secretary, 160 lira is down.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0056par0113	The fact that the first-rate management authority is being paid for a better position is the right idea, as a function of service. Our ministry and our government will bring it up in time. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0058par0115	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Adding to item 1...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0059par0117	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0060par0118	What do you want?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0059par0119	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0061par0120	I understand, sir. The number of decisions is required before the vote of the new (b) bendi, which is envisioned to be added to Article 1. Now I'm going to submit the new (b) to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0062par0124	There's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0061par0125	So your offer is the 1st...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0063par0126	How many are there, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0061par0127	They did, sir. It doesn't matter how many people there are.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0064par0128	How many were there, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0065par0129	Is there a consensus among the court clerks?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0061par0130	Sir, they've counted two clerks and said there's enough to make a decision. It's not the way to explain it, you know. Thus, the new (b) bendi was added to the first article of the proposal, and the other dams were identified. These dams will be corrected during the writing of the law. Now, we'll proceed through the current commission report. I am reading the current (b) version of the first article of the proposal: B) The third joke (e) of Article 12 of supplemental 12 has been removed from effect. On behalf of groups on the matter, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0066par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have been promised to present the views of the MHP Group on Article 1 (b) of Bill 112, and I salute your grand delegation again. In my previous speech, I mentioned it in my non-responsibility speech, and I mentioned it today when I was discussing the same Law of Authority. The Law of Legislature, based on decrees, is not legal, is not valid. The Turkish Grand National Assembly's authority has been seized. The Speaker and the President deliberately passed. What's the strongest competition for construction companies? We have a construction industry as an industry in Turkey. Now you're privatizing everything in Turkey, leaving everything in the private sector. It's the best competition in the world, better than textiles. Which sector is this? Construction industry. You're territorializing this sector. Why? You're building a dwelling. The AKP's spokesman now state that the Community Housing Administration has started 518,000 dwellings. Imagine that some 400,000 of the 518,000 dwellings are made for small-income, middle-income citizens, and how much of that is equivalent to an annual dwelling? When you divide 400 (400) by 9 (9), about 45,000 dwellings have been built on average during the time of the AKP's presence in power. Where's the whole storm? Here. We're saying that some 400,000 of the 518,000 dwellings were made for lower incomes, medium incomes. There's something going on here, what is it? What do you do with the particular size of the construction companies that have emerged in Turkey? The contacts began to go backwards. When you take into account the firms that the Public Housing Administration has tendered -- the total number of companies, the authorities say -- you have a new firm theme. I'm not saying you're stealing. What are you creating? You're creating a new situation. Now, this is an important event. The AKP spokesman who came here say the Public Housing Administration has started 518,000 dwellings, but says 40,000 homes were built from the time the Public Housing Administration was established until the AKP came to power. I feel sorry for these friends, and I feel sorry for them: they've lost some of the comparisons, they can't interpret the paper given to their hands, they can't think, they can't think, they don't know. Why am I saying this? Now, what did previous administrations do when you started with the Autonomous period, not by personally tendering, but by giving credit? They've begun to redirect. No one will say or know until the AKP comes to power that the Public Housing Administration has given loans to about 1 million dwellings. Here maybe different speakers say the same thing about power, but some of them knowingly, knowingly, some of them don't know what they're doing. Now, I'm really saying, look, people are waiting for the earthquake in Van. Because of the mistakes that the AKP has done, these people have misled you because of the mistakes made by the Council of Ministers, when the officials of this state are working overtime there -- I don't say you are -- perhaps because of the incompetence of the Council of Ministers -- perhaps you didn't ask the Public Housing Administration -- who prepared this -- and I know this job very well. What did you do? These people have left their jobs, they're here for matters you don't know about, half of them out there, half of them out here, half of them waiting for the members of an incompetent Council of Ministers. Isn't it a shame about all this work, all this work? I've already told you, this Law of Authority is a real pain in the ass. The invitation, which was held during the talks of the Law of Authority, was legally invited to the Commission in a way that we did not know how the President of the Commission of that day was signed when he was not in Turkey. What's wrong with him? There's nothing reliable about him, he's legally troubled. I've just said in my off-the-book speech that I'd really like to see the President display his sensitivity in the Shikes Act here. He's really troubled. Look, the decrees you issued under the law are not in accordance with the law of authority. Second: The arrangements are not consistent or consistent. You bring it in to fix it, Mr. Secretary. It says there's no issue with the trustees. But there's a problem with the Banking Board of Editing and Control, and you bring it in, as a matter of fact, you try to get all of the Commission here, 21. Now, maybe, I haven't seen anyone here from the Banking Editing and Control Board, but those people really need to work seriously on the financial sector because of this economic situation in the world. You killed their enthusiasm for work, too. You may be contacted by the Banking Editing and Inspection Board, but the poor officer who came to me outside won't be able to reach you. Look, those stenographers over there, they're in trouble because of this current power. There's going to be a huge difference between friends and friends starting tomorrow after all this. When I walk out that door, either a civil servant or a relative of his is squeezing paper into my hand, and tell me something. When they do, you're going to be told on your feet, you're going to pit the sergeants and the cops against each other. The arrangements you've made, as we call them, have no home, and you can't explain your logic, and that's the problem. Instead of the canceled casts, arrangements for the employment of the new staff are not intended for the service, but for the staff. Other than where the officers work, they are stationed in central and rural areas. The path of exiles is being opened. In this way, there are also issues among employees, such as unrest and arbitrary practices, the creation of victims. Now, when you look at the arrangement, the salary increase is significantly higher. Between the lower level and the upper level, we're seeing the cost spectrum break down against the lower level. You've lost the meaning of the career, expertise, and investigative system, and you've broken it. When you're out of power, you wish you weren't audited. The understanding of paying the same fee to those who have the same title from equal work and the shaping of their fee according to that understanding... was not prepared to participate. On the last day, at the last minute, institutions were shared as if the spoils were shared among the ministers, some of them said, "I don't want it." He threw it away, everyone knows, why are you hiding it from the nation? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0067par0153	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Hasip Kaplan... On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Bulent Kuşoglu is Ankara MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0068par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear friends, I have received a pledge from Mr. Chelebi and Mr. Sahin. I salute you all. Sir, you know, it's about Judgement 375. Code No. 375 was issued in 1989, for 22 years he had been performing a duty in connection with the public staff regime, sat down more or less, and had been accepted for twenty-two years. Now, we've made a change in this with the Constitution of 666. This was about State Officers No. 657 under Law No. 375, regarding the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Law 926, regarding the Supreme Board of Judges and Prosecutors Law 2802, regarding Higher Education Law 2914, and the Law on Retirement Think tank 5434. A number of such laws included such legislation, a decree in such a law, an arrangement for the rights of civil servants and public employees. Like I said, after 22 years, we're changing that. With this -- the system is very complex -- elements of salary and salary, such as base monthly, additional indicators, severance pay. It's a very complex system, not a system that everyone understands, it takes a lot of expertise to know this system. Now, such arrangements are not often made. The public staff regime is a very difficult subject, not often changed, done once, applied for years. Even in the private sector, the staff arrangement, the fees arrangements that should not be made so often, are difficult, because it is very difficult to identify people's labor, to see differences, to reflect on wages. Of course, when he makes an adjustment to these issues, he has major problems, problems, very clear issues. Now, we've done this arrangement again with a decree of law, 666, and we've started to correct it before we can even apply it, that's wrong, that's wrong. You've seen it yesterday, as we debated the ruling of the law yesterday, as the TOKI was not supposed to enter, and those involved with a victimized staff were forgotten in the flying and diving services of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which were bound by the security class that needed to be entered. We asked again in the Plan and Budget Commission, as Mr. Aslanoglu said, "Is there any forgotten places?" It was said, "There will be no more such problems." We saw today that there are those who have been forgotten again, and we will have these discussions again in the days to come again. So you can either do it with this kind of arrangement -- this very radical, fundamental arrangement -- or you can't do it that way. So we're just going to sit here, as the entire Grand National Assembly, for hours and days, correcting the mistakes made by two bureaucrats under the law? We'll sit down, we'll make an arrangement as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we'll be decent, we'll be honest, we'll take full responsibility with full opposition, we'll say it's an arrangement we accept, we're behind. We'll say it's an arrangement no bureaucrat can object to. Even if there's an objection, he's not right. The finger cut by the poet does not hurt, okay. He says, he accepts, but this is not done. It's not clear to anyone who was prepared by this ruling of the 666 Law; no minister, no minister, no minister; it's ours. No one, believe me, has taken it upon himself; from there, no one has come together; from there, there has been a collection, a collection, a ridiculous arrangement, a series of flaws, not drawn right, and a lot of flaws have been drawn up. Of course, after that, we're here to deal with it. However, Turkey has much more important issues on its agenda. We're stuck with this when we have more important things to talk about, talk about, talk about. Mistakes that have been made are not actually human, so normally such mistakes can be made. You've written a decree in the rule of law that you might be human, that you forget things. You say that it's not a human error, because there's a problem with the system, there's something wrong with the system. When the system is wrong, these kinds of mistakes will always be made. Such matters will come to light from now on. Many of the victims, the public staff, when applied, will see after 15 percent, with the right to breach our door again. We're going through this together. That's our objection. Like I just said, we're gonna sit down and make a permanent arrangement about it. We don't want any public personnel to get into trouble, either, but let's make a proper arrangement, together, since opportunity has arisen, and we say, let's do it, because it's not an arrangement to do it every once in a while. For example, Mr. Secretary, here are additional indicators of police or police chiefs who have graduated from the police department, who are captains of the police department, 2,200. They're all complaining. Four, three, second-class police commissioners have 3,000 additional indicators. They compare it to those in similar situations. They say we're in bad shape. They say we're wrong. They say we're wrong. They say we're wrong. The first-class police chiefs have 3,600 additional indicators besides Ankara, İstanbul, İzmir police chiefs. They claim that they have been wronged in the same way, and indeed they are troubled. These and such issues, a friend of ours gave a speech on that subject yesterday. There are similar cases of civil servants belonging to the National Ministry of Defense, and they are also complaining. These personnel regimes are regimes that really need to be held from time to time in the face of technological development and change; there are different needs. The arrangement in ▪375, the arrangement in 666, does not include them. There will always be troubles, complaints, he says. The basis, based on Turkey, is education. The bureaucrat is not looking at the efficiency of a public employee. Its efficiency at certain times is ignored, conjunctural efficiency. The advances in technology -- you can't find them -- they're unregistered, and it's causing a lot of trouble. Isn't that the price regime that we're discussing with the Ministry of Health? Isn't that a public staff regime? Isn't that the reason why the full day hasn't sat down in this state in years? The full - time problem at the Ministry of Health is the same in all public institutions, in all ministries. You need to bring in a new system, create a new understanding. My dear friends, by the way, I've made a promise today off the agenda, and I'd like to bring up a matter that I consider very important: Mr. Ministers' appointments should be in the form of appointment according to Article 109 of our Constitution, but the state ministries have been removed, you know, this period. When the state ministries were removed, the deputy prime ministers remained empty. Deputy Prime Ministers, at the moment, four Deputy Prime Ministers have been appointed, not ministers. In order to be appointed, they must be ministers of the Deputy Prime Minister's Offices. Anyone who isn't a minister has been appointed Deputy Prime Minister. Open, look, the decision from Mr. President has been issued. It says, "There is an appointment for the ministers, there is an assignment for the Vice Prime Minister." They'd have to be ministers to be deployed, but the state ministries have been removed. There's a lack of law, there's a mistake. All procedures are troubled. This needs to be fixed, too. We reported it yesterday, and we're reporting it again today, when the ministers are here. It's a big deal, it could be a legal problem later. If we live in a state of law, it should be known, taken into account. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0069par0178	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0070par0181	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm going to go back to the part that I'm missing while I'm speaking about the matter, because there are unbeliefable explanations. There's a meeting at the MIT -- there's a press conference, and when you look at the Internet records, there are explanations that can freeze a person's blood. One, the MIT did not share intelligence. 2) MIT Undersecretary Fidan says: "After the Heron images came twice, we suspected that they were civilians, but we didn't share them with the General Staff, but the General Staff did the target assessment alone." Such an explanation. Now I'm asking: the ministers are sitting in the front, and the pilots are sitting in the back. Now, did the government do its political planning, its strategy, its integration and operation planning, or did it himself order it, or did Air Force Command actually take the Heron footage and make the target assessment, as he himself said? Everyone knows that the Air Force Command doesn't take the slightest step outside of political authority, and that's a very, very dire, terrifying situation. Now, I want to get to a more terrifying point. Please listen to this carefully. Who are the responsible after such a massacre? Who gave you false information? Who did the intel? We ask, "Where is it wrong?" Doesn't this House have a right to know, folks? Doesn't this House have the right to be informed? Don't we have the right to speak of this in the name of the people's will in this House? Aren't we the people's surrogates, or are those seats made of deer skin, or are we going to make deer here? Is that why we're here? Shouldn't we be discussing the country's crucial problems? When we say these things over and over again, friends sometimes get angry: "Hassip Kaplan makes opposition hard. " In fact, it is not hard, it is bitter, it is painful. Now, as I'm going to tell you, look, listen to what I have to say, and you'll understand why the human conscience is insubordinate. Killed: Özcan Uysal -- watch out for those last names -- Seyit Enç, Cemal Encu, Vedat Council, Selim Encu, Selim Encu, Selim Encu, Selhattin Encu, Celal Encu, Bilal Encu, Bilal Encu, Shervan Encu, Nevzat Encu, Salih Encu, Mahsun Encu, Husni Encu, War Encu, Erkan Encu, Cihan Encu, Fadil Encu, Sherafetti Encu, Hamza Encu, Asscu, Encu, Encu, Encüscu, Encüscu, En Bedcüscu, Encütütı, Mehmet Torat, Mehmet Ali. You know why I just read this? 28 people from one family died in this bombing. If 28 people in one family die in a bombing, you have to give this family the right information first, right? Mr. Home Secretary is here. Although they say Abbas is a passenger, according to reports on the Internet, but now I ask Mr. Interior Minister: 28 people were killed this morning from this Council family, 28 people were killed from this family of Encu, who you protected, 28 people from this family of Encu, who were taken into custody by your order, 8 from this family of the Council; they are now in the police station: Faruk Encu, Özcan Encu, Free Encu, Nihat Encu, Nezir Encu, Ferdi Alma, and one from Faris Kaya. Now, while you're being buried 35 lives, you're not answering a word about these perpetrators, but you're taking 8 people from the families of those who buried 28 of your brothers into custody. Your justice stays on your sign, on the sign; the word justice is only on the sign. It's not just that, you know what else I got? There are 60 other people from the same family in custody. What do you guys want to do? What in God's name do you want to do? 35 people are dead, you don't say a word, you don't say who's responsible, you don't explain it, you cover it up, you cover it up like cats, but it doesn't smell, guys. Look, this behavior, taking these painful families into custody today while 35 people are being slaughtered, do you know what it's like to make a list of 60 people? I'm the government, I do. You're the government, you're the government, the AKP is the government and the state. In the past, the Prime Minister used to throw the ball at the government, and the state did it. You know what you're doing? You divide Turkey like watermelons, friends, like this, not as Turkish-Kurdish, not as two pieces, but as you notice, you divide Turkey as secular and antilateral, you divide it as Alevi and Sunni, you divide it as rightist and leftist, you divide it as rich and poor; you divide it as the mastery of your act of injustice itself. Now, I'm calling from here to Roboski villagers, I'm calling to the villagers of Gülyaz, Buceh villagers, not such a small village, they have a population of 4,000, Minister, 4,000; you haven't seen it, you haven't seen it. You don't know the village of Roboski, Hezil Tea flows, it's the only limit, and I'm going to speak on this bench until the children's pictures and names of these children who were slaughtered for tuition in these villages of Uludere, Kılaban, from elementary school students between thirteen and twenty-five years of age to university students are in your dreams. When you wake up in the morning with these dreams, I'm gonna turn this place into a nightmare, you're gonna get out, you're gonna set up a research commission in Congress, we're gonna go out together, all the parties are gonna go out together, you're gonna run the law, you're gonna go out, you're gonna run justice, or I'm gonna be your nightmare on this stand. I'll read these, these names on this bench every day, I'll bring your pictures, I'll talk to them. Because it's not something you pass up. You'll kill him and arrest him and we'll watch here! We came here to take this nation's vote. I'm telling you, we're going to speak for them on this stand. One phone call from them is enough. Just two minutes ago, when it was my turn to speak, the president explained. I was out getting these notes, you know? It was an emergency call. What in God's name do you want from people? What's the matter with you? What's the matter with you? What is your problem with humanity? What do you have against conscience, mercy, justice, law? Is this heresy or heresy, for God's sake? So look at Saddam, look at the dictators, look at Hitler, look at Mussolini, for God's sake? Look at the date and look at the rest. Then where did he go, what happened? I'm warning you about this, I'm warning the government...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0071par0191	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0070par0192	...and I say this is Turkey, where there will be law.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0071par0194	On behalf of his people, Mr. Cahit Bağcı, the Corrum MP.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0072par0196	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of Mr. Chelebi and Mr. Sahin, our Ağrı MP 112 on our agenda, and on behalf of the person who has made a statement on the 1st article of the law proposal (b), which stipulates amendments to some laws under the rule of law number 375. In the beginning of my words, the High Council, I salute you. Dear friends, in the talks on both the proposal and the entire bill, as Mr. Recai Berber It is an arrangement to prevent problems such as the challenge of running qualified and qualified engineers in the presidency and the transition of engineers to private sectors and other public institutions. As you know, it is our Parliament's duty to address the problem of employing qualified personnel that has provided a national solution to the problems of housing, relocation and urbanization in our country over the past 27 years, and to set things straight from that perspective. In our country, the TOKI, which performs its activities in healthy and habitable urban environments, in adequate and qualified housing production, performs several tasks from the Real Estate Bank, the Land Office General Directorate, the Ministry of Housing and Housing Office, and the Prime Minister's Implementation Unit, with nine separate legal and administrative regulations. As a result of these new tasks, the workload has also increased dramatically. Close to the entire government's construction activities are done by TOKI. In addition to dwellings in 2003-2011, university housing buildings, dorms, schools, sports areas, library, unblocked living centres, social donut areas, stadiums, and border stations are built by TOKI. The mayor's activities are continuing abroad, to promote abroad. This framework has become the most competent institution in our country to address issues related to both housing and urbanization as part of the duties set out by the Common Housing Law 2985. I wish the arrangement to our country, our nation, and our TOKI employees well, and I salute you.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0073par0205	Thank you, Mr. Bonder. On behalf of him, the second speaker is Mr. Hüseyin Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0074par0209	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 1st Amendment of our Law Proposal (b) in accordance with the 375 Laws Act. I salute your high council. It was issued on November 2, 2011, and was published in the Official Gazette 28103, and was included in career expertise with the Executive Decree 666. In addition, the third joke of Article 12 of the Law Again referred to has been lifted from the third amendment to Article 2985 in Article 3 of the Common Housing Law. In the face of this, the loss of autonomy and financial rights in comparison to the precedent of public institutions and institutions is due to the absence of technical and administrative career personnel working for the TOKI professional staff. As of January 14, 2012, when the staff of the staff still serving in the executive staff of the Turkish Court of Law No. 666 shall take effect, there will be a serious decline in the salaries of the staff in this situation and will cause loss of rights. The loss of rights will also be in the case of a change of duties by the administration, the new members of the executive staff. Thus, the motivation of the management personnel, who will serve in the management staff for the first time, will be negatively affected and will lead to the decline of efficiency. An agreement will not be made with engineers, lawyers and administrative staffs who will be employed in specialists, specialists and lawyers' staffs, after the adoption of Executive Decree No. 666 on January 14, 2012. This will create a serious wage difference between staff members who are still under contract and who are doing the same work and doing the same job, and will cause unrest among the staff. Therefore, it is possible that personnel will escape to the private sector and other public institutions, as qualified and qualified engineers and lawyers will not be able to be employed. Besides, qualified personnel will not be employed. It is intended to prevent the loss of the rights of experts and staff in the administration of our Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws under the 375 Law. The bill aims to implement legislation provisions to protect the financial rights of TOKI personnel. TOKI personnel do not receive a new right and wage increase. Subsequently, the third joke of Article 12 of Article 666, issued in Article 28103, November 2, 2011, and of Article 2985 of Public Housing Law No. 2985, the fourth joke of Article No. 3 As it will not be possible to employ qualified and qualified engineers in this situation, there will be the escape of engineers who will serve and do so to the private sector and other public institutions. This will negatively affect TOKI activities. In addition, as part of the service, there will be a serious loss of salary on the salaries of these personnel, since there are no other titles in the administration for changes to the executive staff, as a part of the service. With this reputation, the Law Proposal for Amendments in some Laws and the Law on 375 Laws is intended to ensure that there is no new increase in equity and financial rights for the TOKI Presidency personnel and that the current legislation provisions are maintained in the field of action, given their position within the sector. I wish you the best of the offer.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0075par0218	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. (b) Talks on the bendi have been completed. Now, we're going to do a ten-minute question-answer procedure. This is Mr. Bauken, one of the friends who was in the system.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0076par0222	Thank you. I just asked you, I didn't get your answer from the Minister. The village and the town's dwellings, which were built by TOKI in Bingol, are set the same price. However, infrastructure, environmental arrangement, and land were provided by the villagers in the village dwellings. I asked you why. Other than that, there were grants, donations for the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges in Turkey and for private sectors or individuals. We're curious about the outcome of the dwellings where they're being evaluated. Finally, there is no deed to 20,000 dwellings in the flatwood region of Bingol. In this area, the dwellings built by TOKI are included. When will the victim's sacrifice be resolved?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0077par0227	Thank you. Second speaker, Mr. Shandır, our Mersin MP.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0078par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, while this is not about the law, I have these questions to give you an opportunity to explain -- because their interests are waiting for answers. Before the election, the families of the separatist terrorist relatives were promised a job for the second child, which was promised a job. It was also promised that the compensation and salary paid to veterans would be increased. Against separatist terrorism, there was promised that the rights of volunteer village rangers would be organised and improved. Mr. Secretary, it's been six months since the election, so there's no regulation yet. Will you have an answer for our fellow martyrs and veterans who await the answers to these questions? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0079par0234	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Our Istanbul MP, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0080par0236	Mr. Secretary, I asked you yesterday. I'm not satisfied with your answer. You fixed it. This Parliament completed two years ago when the market and the neighborhood watchmen were assigned to the safety services class, but they didn't get a single penny of financial rights. They're not even given clothes. If these are in the law-enforcement class, will you apply them specifically under the law that comes out of here in terms of wear-out compensation? Two: one word, Minister, if you'll excuse me. The village law about the Mukhtars -- you've always attached it to it, you've always tied it to it -- when will it come, when will it be legal? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0081par0240	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, have them come in.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0082par0242	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to thank our esteemed deputies for asking questions in the QA department. The answer to the question asked about TOKI dwellings in Bingöl is that there is no price difference in the village and the city: because the village houses are one storey, their land is large, they are built on large land. Thus, the land costs and construction costs differ from the apartments in the city, even cost a little more. Therefore, there is no distinction in the prices of the TOKI dwellings in the city and in the village. The question of Mr. Shandir is that in this struggle with the separatist terrorist organization, there is a legal arrangement that allows the first-degree relatives of our martyrs to work for their brother, their wife, as you know. It was our government's idea, our party's commitment and opposition that everyone, except for one party, would want jobs for the second of our martyrs. Our government has assessed this issue, and the decision has been made. Our Ministry of Family and Social Policy runs the legal work. There are also improvements on veterans. In addition, the situation of the village rangers must be assessed in a different law, in a separate concept. That's also on our agenda, but improvements to our fellow martyrs and veterans are now over with the Ministry's draft to become a government bill.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0083par0247	In a month or two, it'll be all right.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0082par0248	I'd say it'll be legalized before this legislature is over. Mr. Aslanoglu, I answered your question very clearly yesterday. I'm referring to yesterday's answer regarding the Village Law and the mall, the neighborhood watchmen. Mr. President, I'd like to thank our esteemed lawmakers, the members of lawmakers who have been spoken of for the sake of the proposed law, but there are some MPs in Parliament that I have to explain, not thank you. There are MPs who can't stop talking about blood, death, and death, who are built on hatred, blood, and division.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0084par0251	That's how you built it.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0085par0252	Is there a public defender like that, Mayor? Please step in.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0082par0253	This country is so free that by taking advantage of the freedoms in this country...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0085par0254	We know there are ministers, but we don't think he's a congressman.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0082par0255	...the blood, the hatred, the death, the death, the tongue-tied, tireless, and shameless...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0086par0256	The people know what you are!
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0085par0257	Mr. President, please obey the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0082par0258	I gave him the code for what he said, the opposite of what he said, and I gave him the code for what he said, and I gave him one more time, whatever they said, it's the opposite.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0085par0259	That's no way to talk to the head of 35 people's massacres. You're a minister in charge of killing and slaughter of 35 people.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0082par0260	The deaths of 35 people have upset us. May God have mercy on us. 35 lives are our lives.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0085par0261	A minister in that position can't talk like that!
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0082par0262	If you shut up... shut up, shut up!
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0085par0263	You can't talk like that! Speak properly.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0082par0264	I've listened to you, I've been patient. I'm patient with you, shut up! You can't talk!
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0085par0266	Speak properly, you can't talk like that! You'll answer!
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0082par0268	I'll tell you if you're thirsty. You're the one who has to answer, people like you.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0087par0269	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0085par0270	You'll answer for the murder of 35 people, it's not like that!
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0082par0271	People like you have to answer.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0088par0272	Please don't talk to me. Mr. Kaplan, listen, please, listen. You'll answer.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0085par0273	Mr. President, you will intervene!
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0082par0274	I listened here, didn't interrupt a word. This assembly has listened to you, this Grand National Assembly has listened to you.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0085par0275	You come out, you talk, but with manners, with style, not like this.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0082par0276	He listened to your disgusting slander. He tolerates your disgusting actions, people, this government.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0085par0278	No one will tolerate your disgusting acts, your massacres.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0089par0279	Please...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0082par0280	You have to understand this place to understand the death there.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0085par0281	The president said it was disgusting.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0089par0282	Mr. President, please shut up and answer me later. Please listen...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0082par0283	To understand death there, you need to understand the separatist terrorist organization.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0085par0284	Mr. President, the word "sucky" please intervene. He's disgusting.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0090par0285	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0091par0286	We listened to you. Listen, please... you'll answer later.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0092par0287	It's a separatist terrorist organization one step beyond death there.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0093par0288	It's the slaughter that's disgusting.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0092par0289	It is one step beyond death there.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0094par0290	Please, please listen. He listened to you quietly.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0093par0291	Mr. President, he's going to apologize, he's going to apologize, he's going to...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0092par0292	There are blood on the tongue, blood on the tongue, blood on the tongue.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0093par0294	Run the Civil Code, please.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0092par0295	You must know the Kandil. You must see the Kandil.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0093par0296	You need to know about the massacre.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0092par0297	In order to see death there, you have to see those people who lost their lives, who gave them their smuggling goods, and you have to see that separatist organization. Without a separatist organization, there will be no blood in this country, no hatred, no death. In this country...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0093par0299	You answer for that massacre first.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0095par0300	You don't get to answer!
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0096par0301	Please listen, you will answer, sir, listen. We listened to you.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0097par0302	I give you the check, I give you the check because we're built on account. I have a trial, not a public court like yours, not a made-up trial, not an inhuman trial.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0098par0303	You don't even have a trial. You got a trial?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0097par0304	I've got a court, I've got a prosecutor, I've got an inspector, they're working right now.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0098par0305	No way! If there was justice, these massacrers would have been caught one by one by one.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0099par0306	Mr. President, would you please intervene in this procedure? Please...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0100par0307	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0101par0308	As the ministry, we, the prosecutors, they're all on duty right now.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0102par0309	He's going to take back the word disgusting!
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0100par0310	Sir, we listened to you quietly, please...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0103par0311	We want to hear the talk. Is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0104par0312	Someone who has nothing better to do than stand on this stand and interrupt before the heat of the event is gone, who has no other property than to go on this stand and attack immorally, and who is using this freedom to the fullest... [Applause from BDP rows!]
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0105par0313	All your talk is immoral!
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0106par0314	We've heard a lot of insults here.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0104par0315	Listen, please, listen, we listened to you. I'm lighting it up, we're lighting it up. They're investigating the incident: Şırnak Prosecutor's Office, Uludere Prosecutor's Office, Diyarbakır Special Prosecutor's Office.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0107par0317	Tell me who gave the order from Ankara.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0104par0318	They're investigating the Home Office, the Chief of Staff, the Prime Minister. Well, in this study, you have to answer to me: by exploiting funerals, by exploiting death...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0107par0319	Come on, don't talk about the abuse of funerals, the slaughter, the slaughter.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0104par0320	Give me the account of that rag you're covering up, the rag, the fucking signs, the colors.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0107par0322	Talk about the massacre, the massacre.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0108par0323	Please, please...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0104par0324	Think about it. Think about it. Think about it. Think about it.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0108par0326	Mr. Secretary, thank you, your time is up. My dear friends...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0109par0328	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0108par0329	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0109par0330	Mr. President, would you please run the Civil Code? Here, the minister used the word "sucky" directly to lawmakers.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0110par0331	I didn't give you a name.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0109par0332	The word "sucky" is not an acceptable word under the Civil Code, so please apologize.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0111par0333	He said, "Nude, we're giving him back the word "nude."
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0112par0334	Sir, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0109par0335	No, sir...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0112par0336	One second, sir, one second... Not everything you say is the law here, Mr. Kaplan. Please, I've listened and listen to my answer.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0109par0338	No, Mr. President, if you accept the word "awful," if you're digesting it...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0112par0339	Okay, listen to my answer. Here...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0109par0340	Are you digesting?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0112par0341	What do I have to do with it?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0109par0342	Do you accept?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0112par0343	Sir, please, sit down, according to the Civil Code... there is no such conversation.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0109par0344	No, are you digesting?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0112par0345	Mr. Kaplan, please... Please sit down.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0109par0346	Do you accept the word "awful"?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0113par0347	You can't insult me! What are you gonna do, send the police?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0114par0348	I'll do it myself!
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0113par0349	What are you dealing with yourself...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0115par0350	Please, sit down... please, sit down...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0116par0351	Selfal...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0113par0352	He's threatening me.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0115par0353	Sir, one second... one second, please... one second... no...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0113par0354	What are you handling?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0115par0355	Congressman, Congressman, please... please...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0117par0356	Selfal...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0113par0357	He says I'll take care of it... What are you taking care of?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0118par0359	Please, sir...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0119par0360	He says it's disgusting...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0113par0361	What are you going to do, send JITEM? Do you want to commit an unsolved crime?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0119par0363	Selfal...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0120par0364	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0121par0365	Mr. President, are we in the House or the coffee shop? Please... what the hell is this?
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0119par0366	You'll get the word "awful" back.
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0122par0368	He's threatening me!
tbmm-2012-01-05sit02spe0123par0369	I'm gonna take a ten-minute break.
