tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I ask for mercy on our fallen martyrs in Afghanistan. I offer my condolences to our nation and to their grieving families in the name of our House and of my own. May he benefit our nation from their intercession. I salute you, too. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda belongs to Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan, who wants to speak about the problems of foreign trade. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Ayhan, it would be nice if we could stop humming in the General Assembly before we start. I suggest that friends who don't want to hear the call continue their conversation outside the General Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0002par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have been promised the problems of foreign trade. I salute the grand jury. First of all, I ask for the mercy of His Holiness, his relatives, and the great Turkish nation, who have been sent away to eternity today. Mr. President, lawmakers, I'm afraid there has been permanent damage to foreign trade and competition during the AKP period. In 2011, exports increased by 19 per cent, import by 30 per cent, foreign trade deficit by 48 per cent, current transaction deficit by 64 per cent. This increase in the foreign trade deficit has been 173% in two years. The problem in this area is not only foreign trade, imports, current transaction deficits, but also external debt problems. Turkey's external competitiveness has experienced serious wear and tear in two years. We understand that from foreign trade data. Look what the press is saying. The rate of exporting has dropped by 11.1 in 2010; 5.34 in 2011. This is the lowest level since 2000. In the manufacturing industry, the rate of imports of exports has dropped from the previous year in 15 out of 22 sectors. In the entire industry, the reception rate has declined in 19 percent of the 27 subsidiaries. In the 34 sectors covering all economic activities, the reception rate has dropped in 23°. According to the international standard trade ranking, a total of 66 goods groups have dropped in 43. Turkey's number of countries overextended in foreign trade has decreased. The number of countries Turkey has increased imports is more than the number of countries it has increased exports to. Turkey's number of foreign trade countries has increased from 84 to 90. The rate of exports has increased against 97 countries, while it has turned against 100 countries. There are not only groups of countries, such as Turkey's competitive EU and OECD, but also North Africa and other African countries, close and Middle East groups. This suggests that our global competitiveness has declined. It's the product of economic policies that can't withstand heat money and courtship pressures. The damage to the competitiveness isn't temporary, it's just impossible to solve it with courtship moves. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, my district, my constituency district, is a naval, exporting city. Mr. Kececi, the head of the Industrial Chamber, says that the new incentive law is important to Denizli, adding that the Denizli is a province that has been a victim of encouragement for years. I don't remember the new investors in Denizli in the last decade, no new investments, so the naval businessmen who were always bragging about their entrepreneurial spirit can no longer display entrepreneurial spirits. The marine is suspended from investment, it will be announced next week, I hope it will be good. Unfortunately, the earlier incentive policies had destroyed Denizli. Another incident: It may look like small events, but it's an article sent to MPs by the Marine Industry and Traders Platform. It says: "We have problems with flights related to the marine province. We're flying at really expensive costs. The price of travel to Europe is not allowed to fly from Denizli. They actually signed and sent it to many of the members of this platform. What do you do with exporters with general incentive policies? You can't make them happy, they're not happy, but let's solve these simple operations. What did you do to Denizli? You were launching planes in the private sector, in the public, in Ankara. Now that you've removed them completely, it doesn't fly anymore. Before these problems are solved... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...our external trade deficit and current transactions are impossible to destabilise. My respects to all of you. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0003par0032	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. The second non-responsored statement belongs to Adıyaman MP Muhammad Murtaza Kığyük, who asked for the appointment of 21 March World's Fight against Racist Day. Here you go, Mr. Catcher.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0004par0037	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on March 21st, World War Against Racist Day. In the beginning of my words, I salute your grand delegation. First of all, I ask God's mercy for the martyrs we lost in Afghanistan, my condolences to their relatives, so as not to inflict such pain on our nation and all its peoples. Dear friends, racism that has caused mankind the greatest suffering throughout history is a disease we all have to fight. This disease has led to the loss of mankind's conscience. Racism is a curse that defies racist Zionist policies in Palestine and destroys Rachel Corrie, an example of humanity with her conscience; in Norway it is the pain that takes away dozens of young people from their dreams in the spring; in Germany it is the fire that burns the Arslan family; in Algeria, Rwanda, it is the persecution that massacres thousands of innocent people. The rising Islamophobia and alien hostility in Europe today continue to hurt more and more each day. To rid mankind of this curse, we all need to develop a common struggle. Dear lawmakers, the disease of racism comes to life all over the world in every geography where humanity has lost its maturity and forgotten the ontological meaning of human beings. Racism isn't just about insulting a different race, it's about depriving people of their rights because they have a different ethnicity, a religion, a color, and less intelligent, less civilized, and less valuable because of their race. Throughout history, nations who view themselves as the superior race have seen racism as an instrument of exploitation and sovereignty over other nations. It is also racist to insult someone else's culture, clothing, and language through direct or implied means. The cross-eyed look that causes a group to see an ethnic structure as a potential criminal is racism again. As the prophet of Islam sees this fire that destroys mankind, many years later he says: "He who is a racist, he who fights for racism, and he who dies for racism is not one of us. " Dear friends, racism continues to exist among us with different faces. Sometimes it's discrimination against women, sometimes it's an insult to the secularists because they're regressive, it's a hostility to religion and the veil, sometimes it's a hostility to Kurds, sometimes it's a hostility to Alevi. Racism, not to see the game of the shepherd on the mountain, by the vote of the Sniper, says, "Even if you get 90 votes per cent, you can't be in power." It means. Racism is insulting a people who scratch their bellies. Isn't it also a despicable racial morality to describe Turks as "Etrakuk biidrak," "Ekradi wild" and "Armenian child" by underestimating the Armenians? Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers must remember that racism is a vortex with no end. The highest value for the Republic is the rule of law, not the law of the superior. A republic that does not guarantee the rights of the minority, the oppressed and the deprived, all parts of society, is not a democratic republic. The Republic's job is not to deepen the idea of race in people, but to develop new kinds of religions, but to produce education and cultural policies that reinforce universal human values. Beri come, since then, How far is it to hit this road? How long is this row, this fight? You're me, I'm you... What's with all the resistance? What aileth him that he fleeth from the light, We're the only ones with the ball, Why are we so cross-eyed? The rich despise the poor, for what? He looks down on his left and right, for what? They're both your hands, they're both yours. And what's blessed, and what's not? I salute you all with the hope that His Majesty's dream of unity for mankind will become the dream of all mankind and that blood, tears, pain, and racism will come to an end on earth.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0005par0060	Thank you, Mr. Catcher. The third non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu, who asked for a statement on the Higher Education Act and the Student Discipline Regulation. Here you go, Mr. Danishoglu.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0006par0065	Mr. President, first of all, I offer my condolences to the martyrs of Afghanistan and to the martyrs of today's military service, and to their families, relatives, and all our nation. Dear lawmakers, I have recently taken an off-the-book promise that our university students should be expelled from school, expelled from school with arbitrary practices, and changed by the student disciplinary regulations that have caused them. I salute your high council. The Higher Education Law and the Student Discipline Rule, based on this Law, are a legacy of the 1980 coup, reflecting the oppressive philosophy of the coup. Boycotts, occupation, handing out notices, banners, hanging banners, breaking ceremony order, possession of forbidden literature, and there are too many regulations that I can't count here that our young people are being severely punished for their future. Many of these substances are non-objective and give authorities broad discretion. The goal is to put pressure on students, create fear, prevent them from making political opposition to management. In our country today where hundreds of students are under arrest, the issue is even more important. All students, especially those who are imprisoned or convicted, lose hope for the future when they are expelled from the university, and it is difficult for them to reintegrate with society because being expelled from the university also means that they will never be admitted to any higher education institutions again. Let us briefly consider recent events: Last week, Erdem Özdemir Celal Bayar was expelled from the University of Bayar. He had been suspended for two semesters and threatened to be expelled from school by the Chancellor for protesting Mr. Bulent Arinc with slogans and arguing with the Chancellor. Later, he was sentenced to discharge from the university because he made a press statement in front of the AKP district building and did not comply with his student adjective, honor and dignity according to the regulations. Here, the title of studenthood, honor, dignity is a big question mark of who and how it is determined. Consider another example. He was sentenced to 11 months and 20 days in prison after he criticised the chancellor in his article published in a newspaper from the University of Black Sea Technical and was suspended from school. Another example: Michael Boz, from İstanbul University of Marmara, was suspended because he criticised the school dean in the Soshi Dictionary. This student I'm talking about is a student who meets his studies at work and is the first in the class with an average of 3.96. So, what did he criticize and get suspended from school? The appointment of deans and department heads and the fact that they were not elected in accordance with democratic rules. In addition to those I counted, 52 students were expelled from school at the University of Süleyman Demirel at the beginning of March for protesting an increase in tuition. The statement of the rector regarding the punishment later brought down at the request of the chancellor is a message. Mr. President, according to the Disciplinary Rule, this punishment was inevitable, and we have applied the lowest penalty as management. Congressmans, we all know that in a democratic and free country, the obstacles to freedom of thought and expression must be removed. Universitys must be free to pass on their opinions and criticism on everything that concerns the community, along with their students, professors, and professors. Our new head of staff, Mr. Cetinsa, has recently signalled that the Student Discipline Rule will be changed, but that is not enough, because the framework of the Law of Higher Education shall be determined by Article 54. If the law does not change, the essence and philosophy of regulations will not change. It is our duty as chosen ones to protect the future of our country, our young people, their education rights, their social rights, human rights. What we need to do on this road is to replace the Higher Education Law with a more democratic arrangement to save our universities from becoming pressure centers to become scientific centers where different ideas are developed together. We can learn to be open to criticism, to be democratic, with confidence in our young people, as long as we want to. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0007par0078	Thank you, Mr. Danishoglu. There are demands of words according to the 60th article, and I will give them to you. Don't let any other friends in, I'm out of money. Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0008par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. On 16 March 2012, we lost 12 soldiers, including nine officers, two petty officers, and one specialist in Afghanistan. I ask for God's mercy to our martyrs, and I ask for patience for the rest of them, and I pray for the sake of the Turkish nation, and I wish these martyrs to be the last, and I want to continue with this: What are we doing in Afghanistan? The President of Afghanistan has taken his wife and child...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0009par0087	It's because he wants Ataturk! It's our place. Says Ataturk!
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0010par0088	You can't be here if you're not there!
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0008par0089	He's hiding it outside Afghanistan. As of now, we believe that the Turkish Union, the Turkish army, has no meaning for our Turkish soldier to be there.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0011par0091	That's what Ataturk wants!
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0012par0092	They're tricking you! They're tricking you! America will deliver it to the Taliban. What will you do?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0008par0093	He's an American citizen, with 12 American citizens in his cabinet. Therefore, we believe the Turkish soldier shouldn't be there.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0011par0094	He wants Ataturk!
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0013par0095	Mr. Özdağ, you've entered, and I promise you, why are you punching tables?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0008par0096	There are 12 US national ministers in the cabinet, and he's an American citizen. We don't want to be soldiers of the United States. We don't want to be gendarmes. Once again, I ask God's mercy for our martyrs, and I ask patience for those who remain, and once again, the Turkish nation's condolences.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0013par0098	Your Grace. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0014par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, the Çanakkale wars are a glorious epic that has changed the course of history, brought Turk's glory to the summit, developed a sense of love for the country, flagged the faith and made those who fought there holy and heroic. Çanakkale, which defeats those who defeat the world and those who think they can't be defeated, is a great victory in the history of the world and in the memory of the Turkish nation. Çanakkale is a place where 250,000 martyrs lie unburdened, where Turkish glory is celebrated; where faith is eaten by disbelief, steel and gunpowder; where thousands of bullets fall on its square meter. In this glorious battle, I say to all our martyrs who have reached the rank of martyrs, who have died in the helicopter that fell in Kabul, with mercy and gratitude, their souls rest in peace.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0015par0106	Oh, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0016par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. On March 1, 2003, this Parliament established a great honor. At 20/3/2003, Iraq was bombed by American planes. A million and a half Muslims have been killed since then. Iraq is actually divided into three. Oil sources were looted by imperialists. The same scenario is currently being staged for Syria. I wish our nation and our Parliament would have the same attitude on this matter as on March 1st. Thank you. My condolences to those left behind, sir, who have been killed in Afghanistan and who have not yet been known to be there.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0017par0113	Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0018par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. To solve a problem, you need to know the limits of the problem. Even the space of freedom opened by democracy has its limits. A problem without borders has no solution with limited rules. No democracy can solve a problem without limits. It's the first condition of a political union, combines a common language, separates a different language. None of the double-tongued students could solve similar problems - Iraq, here's Spain, here's Belgium. Democracy is not to divide, to tear, to burn, to break, to not recognize the law. BDP, CK, PKK are longing for a bilateral state structure rather than a unitary structure step by step. In spite of the ban, the PKK must be behind its sympathizers on March 18th, making the streets of Diyarbakir and Istanbul a war zone. If there are those in a country who say that they are subject to a law other than legal law, and they actually apply it, they must do it very quickly without delay. The Kurdish problem is also over because the problem of democracy is not a problem of democratisation. It's not over. It's about making division, not learning from what's happened so far. Yesterday, in Istanbul, in Diyarbakır, I condemn those who have damaged state and nation property, and I appeal to the public's discretion. I also remind those who say, "What are we doing in Afghanistan?," Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0019par0122	Mr. Karaahmetoglu.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0020par0124	On March 18, we celebrated the victory of Çanakkale. We remember our martyrs with mercy and gratitude. The greatest legacy of epic heroism is independence. Yesterday in Korea, today in Afghanistan, who and who did we lose our people to? They were not martyrs in the defense of the country. Down with imperialism and collaborators!
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0019par0126	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0021par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the National Movement Party Group, ask the grace of the great God of our 12 soldiers who were first martyred in Afghanistan. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. We share the pain of their loved ones and loved ones. And on March 18th, I thank the great martyrs who made Çanakkale impossible, the spirit who prepared that national struggle, and bow before them with respect, and ask for their blessings from the great God. Of course, our unity will save the blood of our martyrs, that soul will. In order to protect our unity, the concessions given in the name of democracy and freedom -- in the words of Mr. Özdağ (who spoke ahead of me) -- should not be considered as a democracy, as freedom. It's the most important wealth union in this country. The Union can be achieved by raising common values, by praising that common denominator. Or in the name of freedom...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0022par0133	Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0023par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. I was going to ask the Minister of Forestry and Waterworks, but...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0022par0137	You can't ask questions now, Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0023par0138	It's not a question, so...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0022par0139	I mean, according to 60, please say what you're saying.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0023par0140	I'm telling you. He's not here, so I'll tell you what I think later. I, too, pray for God's mercy, with my gratitude and gratitude for our heroic sons, who died in Afghanistan with the martyrs who had died for this land by epic writing in Çanakkale.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0022par0142	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0024par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask the Lord for His mercy on our heroic soldiers who were killed by accident in Afghanistan. And my condolences to their families and to the great Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, politics is for people. People aren't for politics. All over the world, governments avoid practices that may be considered persecution for working people. In a drunken state of power, the AKP implements practices that will victimise employees recklessly. In the context of privatisation of Turkey's Sugar Factorys, thousands of workers fear that they will be victimised. AKP's subcontractor policy has become the feared dream of workers. Privatisation stands on top of workers working at the Candy Factory like the Sword of Demokles. In this context, workers working at 4/C status are trying to survive in great uncertainty. No one who earns his living has insurance against AKP policies. The AKP has become an anti-employee political organisation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I invite the AKP to respect the workers with hard work, hope that the power will tremble and come to its senses, and give them respect.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0025par0149	Dear Metiner...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0026par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. In the Sivas case, the statute of limitations on the five escaped defendants has unfortunately been turned into an unfair campaign against our party and our government. It is known that the statute of limitations is a requirement of our old legal system. For example, the same decision was made for the DEV-YOL case. It is not possible for those who rejoice or do not speak for the DEV-YOL when the statute of limitations is made, to make the decision made for the five fugitive defendants in the Sivas case into the form of anti-AK PARTI hostility, to associate them with principle and sincerity; this is the steepness of contradiction! Furthermore, most importantly, the civil rights defense of the citizens of Erzincan County, who did not address the massacre on any grounds in the village of the Prime Minister, to retaliate against the Sivas massacre, is also lacking in sincerity and conviction.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0027par0153	Shame on you! What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0028par0154	For once, talk straight!
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0026par0155	It has to be known that the Sivas massacre...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0029par0157	Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0030par0159	Mr. President, my fellow MP, Artvin, our MP Ugur Bayraktutan, said something very nice, that there are 12 American citizens in the cabinet of Karzai. It's impossible to understand where that statement has disturbed our friends, the AKP MP. On March 18, 1915, the Australian, New Zealander, Indian soldiers, mother's lambs were brought to Çanakkale for the benefit of British imperialism. Today, our soldiers, our mama's boys, were taken to Afghanistan and martyred for the interests of American imperialism. I say God rest their souls. I'd like to point out that any war outside the national defenses would be a toy of imperialism. And here I condemn the understanding of the slaughter of Sivas, which brought about the slaughter of the chieftains. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0031par0163	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0032par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. The Battles of Çanakkale, the epic resistance of a nation fighting poverty against the mightiest and most glorious armies of the century, are the most precious treasured and honorable legacy our ancestors left us. It's an epic story that the noose is written in history with the highest spiritual values, the zeal, the blood. The spirit of Çanakkale made us who we are. On this occasion, on the occasion of the victory of Çanakkale and the week of martyrs, I remember once again our saintly martyrs who have sacrificed their lives for our independence and our heroic veterans who have arrived in eternity with mercy and gratitude. In the same way, I ask God's mercy to all those who have lost their lives in Afghanistan to contribute to international peace in the country, to their families, to their relatives, and to our beloved nation, in order to contribute to international peace on the basis of their understanding.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0033par0168	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Vice President Zhao Jinjun and Vice President Zhou Tienong of the National People's Congress of the People's Republic of China have been eligible to visit our country with their Parliamentary delegations, with the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Court of Parliament, on March 12, 2012 and on March 17, 2012. The visit of the delegations to our country is the 7th Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It is subject to the information provided by the General Assembly. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In an effort to investigate the issues of the province of Manisa and determine measures to be taken, including the legal arrangements to be made, we would like to ask that the Constitution's 98th Amendment, the 104th and 105th Amendments be opened under Parliamentary Investigation. 19.10.2011 Although Manisa is one of the major provinces of our country in terms of agriculture and industrial potential, he is unable to get his share of the DPT. Manisa ranked first in agricultural production, according to the 2011 DPT Public Investments Programme; 22nd in agricultural investments between 81 provinces, 13th in population. At the same time, the 29th in education investments, the 32nd in health investments, 18th in terms of facial measurement. 47 on transport investments when he was in the country. He's in line. The road in Manisa has not been completed for years because of lack of funds in transport. Manisa, who produces 75 per cent of the seedless raisin, 20% of tobacco, 12 per cent of cherry, 10% of cotton, also produces six per cent of the agricultural value in Turkey. As input costs went up at the same rate, our farmers couldn't pay agricultural loans to Agriculture Credit Co-ops and Agriculture Bank, and agricultural watering electricity debt to electricity companies. 80 of the seedless raisins are produced in Manisa. The date is unable to implement a resounding purchase due to lack of resources. Coreless raisins must be supported, and in the years when there are supply surpluses, there must be a mechanism to take this surplus and store it. 35% of the tabled black olives are produced in Akhisar, 75% of the tabled green olives. The producers in Akhisar can't benefit from support because they don't pay the premium for supporting olive oil while the table olives are paid. The number of tobacco productions and producers has been reduced by 70 per cent, as the Tekel is adopted into the privatisation programme and switched to Contracted Productions. Manisa, who made 35 per cent of Turkish-type tobacco exports in 2002, currently ran out of tobacco producers. The number of cotton production fields and manufacturers in the Aegean region and Manisa has dropped. Special support should be developed to promote cotton and textile industry in the region. On 31 October 2009 and 22 January 2010, the Council of Ministers issued in the Official Gazette's Decisions gave special support for livestock by 25 under the GAP and DAP, while Manisa, in the 5th position of animal production, was not supported. Manisa has white objects and concentrations in electrical-electronic sectors. Manisa is a very attractive RD and production centre for these markets. Automotive aide-industrial COBIs are beginning to concentrate in Manisa. Manisa needs a major automotive firm as the engine main industry. The ministry's support must be increased in order for the waste treatment facilities and roads of organised industrial areas in Manisa to be built. It's OSB II of the righteous. The process of nationalization has not been completed. The project, prepared by Salihli TSO to serve geothermal energy production, greenhousery, housing heating, drying and other industrial practices, must be accelerated by the Ministry of Industry. In the villages of Karayayup, Çakaköy, Mal husband, Çamköy and Taşkuyuk, which remained in the security area of the Gördes Dam, there was no end to the formalisation process, and the housing of our citizens was not shown. The Manisa Akhisar Cigarette Factory, which has been transported to the treasure with 1,500 acres, is on hold. Nearly 30,000 historical artifacts found at the Manisa Archeology and Ethnography Museum are kept in warehouses due to lack of physical conditions. The Soma thermal plant has four times the number of air pollution and cancer patients in Soma, due to the failure to renovate chimney gas filters. The cracks in Soma's houses on Friday, Samsacı, and Karamanian neighborhoods are compromised by underground galleries. The Gediz River became an open sewer isale line, with toxic industrial waste from OSBs and industrial facilities and sewage from municipalities poured into the river. The river also threatens human health while suffering with fluoride and fauna. The foreign company, which runs the manisa-Turgutlu-Taldağ nickel bed, has been allowed to produce nickel and cobalt by using the method of liquid and sulfuric acid without having to build an isolated plant. It is inevitable that this will cause environmental disaster. [[Manisa]] [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] 4) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Inconceived]] [[Inconceived]] 7) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Kastamon]] [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] 12) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Adana]] [[Kütahya]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Paddles]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] [[Adana]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The challenges of our tradesmen and artists, one of the main elements of our country's economic, social and cultural structure, have now reached the most extreme stage. The Constitution is 98, 104 and 105 of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Civil Charter to find solutions to the problems that our tradesmen and artists face. On the basis of the clauses, I'd like to ask that Parliamentary Investigation be opened. 20.10.2011 The spread of capital and prosperity, the improvement of revenue distribution, and the protection of social balances, our business and artist, are a very important part of our country in social, economic, and cultural ways. 99% of the businesses in our country are tradesmen and small businesses. 77 per cent of employment is provided by the tradesman, 36 per cent of the added value created in the economy. Therefore, the problems of the tradesmen and the artists must not be considered separate from the problems of our country. Our business and artistry, which is the main pillar of our country and address all sides as part of its influence, is about to collapse, the most powerful structure of socialization, communication, enrichment of unity and unity. The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology data contains 1,935,000 tradesmen in our country. According to Turkish Traders and Artists Confederacy, 912,000 tradesmen closed from 2005 to 2010. In the first nine months of 2011, the number of trades closed was 116,395. - The lack of funding, - The lack of equipment to address advanced markets, - The changes in technology and knowledge. - The global economy, the markets, and the competition of Far East goods. - The lack of vocational education, - Social security issues, - High tax and SGK prim issues, - New standards of EU integration laws, - The decline of public procurement power and the change of consumption habits, - He's struggling to survive under the threat of an unregistered trade and artistry of internal immigration and unemployment. The tradesman and artist who are struggling with economic woes cannot find a solution to their problems. During the AKP Governments, our tradesman was left alone with his problems, except for some baseless and unsolicited measures. Under Article 173 of the Constitution, a small tradesman and artist must be protected and supported by the state. However, the AKP government is indifferent and insensitive, apart from its efforts to provide its own employment, to provide the most jobs in our country, to pay its taxes and insurance, to finance the budget, and to support our artist and artist, and to express no results. In April 2010, the government announced trade exchange, transformation and support strategy document and action package, as well as other packages, came up empty. In order for our tradesmen and artists to get better and more comfortable, the tradesman and artist must be redefined in accordance with the conditions of the day, the tax, vocational education and administrative problems must be resolved in accordance with a programme, particularly financial and loan of our tradesmen and artists. The employment costs on the tradesman and artist must be reduced, and the application of pensioners and artists who are retired and opening jobs must be removed from their pensions as Social Security Support Prim (SGDP). The department stores, shopping malls, are an unfair competition against grocery stores, buffets and dealerships. Therefore, the Law on Great Markets must be passed at once. In order for our tradesmen and artists to adapt to the conditions of the modern age, to produce a new model of trade and artistry in universal values, the plan, programme and projects must be put into effect. In Article 173 of our Constitution, "The state, the tradesman and the artist take protective measures." The execution of the rule must be carried out, and the necessary legal arrangements will be made. [[Manisa]] [[Mersin]] [[Kastamon]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Kütahya]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Inconceived]] 8) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Ankara]] [[Elizipt]] 11) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 12) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Slap]] [[Antalya]] [[Inconceived]] [[Sakarya]] 17) Edip Semih Yalçın [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Erzurum]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey is not a water-rich country, as claimed. This requires more sensitivity to water, more careful use of water resources. Although the irrigation dams and ponds in our Manisa province are higher in watering capacity, some problems in irrigation and new technologies cannot be watered enough. The Constitution is 98, 104 and 105 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Interior Charter to find solutions for the detection of the Agricultural Production and Watering Problem of Manisa Province. On the basis of the clauses, I'd like to ask that Parliamentary Investigation be opened. 18/10/2011 Manisa Ili, founded at the foot of Mount Spil, is distinguished in Turkish agriculture with its fertile lands, with its rich vegetation pattern and diversity, Gediz Valley. The province of Manisa is 13.096,000 decedents, and its assets are 5,056,280. 32.50 per cent of the total agricultural areas are irrigable. About 62.33% of the agricultural fields totalled 5,056.280 per cent of the province are used in field plants, 7.33% are used in vegetables, 14.75% are used in fruit and 10.61 percent in olive production, while the remaining 5% are nadas and unusable land. The total irrigable farmland in our Manisa province is 2,262.121. The total watering area is 1,749,821. The 1,224,875 deceleration of this irrigation and the remaining area are watered by citizens' own efforts. Manisa, from time to time, is among the first three in Turkey, with agricultural production values produced by him. He's been in the province as well. About 72.75% of Turkey's nuclear-free raisin production, 21.45% of tobacco, 11.66% of cherries, 6.85 percent of cotton is performed in Manisa. If we look at the changes in Manisa agriculture in recent years, the main problem in agricultural production in the province is irrigation. In particular, agricultural irrigation has become extremely important because of the increasing drought in recent years. Although the irrigation dams and ponds in our Manisa province are high in watering capacity, some problems in irrigation and new technologies cannot be watered enough. The real reason for water shortages in recent years is actually because we don't use our water resources efficiently. Since watery agriculture is not made in the fields, the quality and quality of the primary crop is increasing, and the cost of growing is diminishing. As a result, our farmers' economic power is increasing. Before it's too late, we need to use the water that is part of nature and life more effectively before it gets back on track. Turkey is not a water-rich country, as claimed. This requires more sensitivity to water, more careful use of water resources. According to the United Nations report, 1.1 billion people are deprived of clean water. 2.6 billion people use unsolicited water from treatment facilities. Every year, nearly 6 million people die from diseases that result from not reaching clean water, such as diesel, cholera, diarrhea, and every 30 seconds because they lack clean drinking water. According to the same report, two thirds of the world's population would likely be deprived of clean and drinkable water in 2025. The way this gloomy and evil painting is removed is that governments are able to weigh water investments, to use the water in the best possible way, to increase drinking and using water, to ensure that it is carried in healthy conditions. Our country's water supply is also under pressure from rapid population growth and industrial development, increasing agricultural production and pollution. As in most countries today, water problems in Turkey are based on governance, policy and investment shortcomings. Given that there will be no future without water, the necessary policy change must be made and sufficient resources must be set aside. [[Manisa]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Ankara]] [[Kastamon]] [[Elizipt]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Manisa]] [[Mersin]] [[Inconceived]] [[Mughle]] 11) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[Slap]] 14) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Sakarya]] [[Inconceived]] [[Kayseri]] 18) Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[Yozgat]] 23) Edip Semih Yalçın [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. According to Article 75 of the Civil Charter (2/312), there is a separate thesis on the rescinding of the original law proposal and the adoption of the same law proposal by a member of parliament. Now, first, I'm going to read the first statement that the proposal for the law has been rescinded: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We withdraw our original bill 2/312. We demand that it be done. 13.03.2012 And now I'm going to read the statements that the same law proposal was taken over by three lawmakers: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Law proposal number 2/312 was jointly discussed in our commission with other legal proposals, and the request to change the name of Zonguldak Karaelmas University, which is part of the proposal to be changed to the University of Brunguldak Ecevit, was adopted by my person at the undercommitted Subcommittee's motion, which included the proposal of my signature in the bill proposal of Internal Chart 75. I want to take over by matter. For your information. 14.3.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It has just been read in the Grand National Assembly of TBM that lawmakers signed their signatures on the Law Proposal to change the name of Zonguldak Karaelmas University, which was jointly discussed with other Law Proposals in our commission. In our commission, 2/358 is 18 of our Commission for the Major Law Proposal 2/312, which is combined with the original Law Proposal No. 2/312. On the basis of its adoption and voting vote, my signature is included in the Law Proposal. I want to take over by matter. For your information. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It has just been read in the Grand National Assembly of TBM that lawmakers signed their signatures on the proposal to change the name of Zonguldak Karaelmas University, the 2/312 main university, to be renamed "Bkent Ecevit University." 18 on the commission of Act 2/312, which is discussed in our commission, combined with Act 2/358's original proposal. On the basis of its adoption and voting, my signature is included in the proposal of the law. I want to take over by matter. For your information. It has been presented to your knowledge. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. 20.03.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Tuesday, 20,03,2012 (today), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. Yours truly. On 16 March 2012 and 3744, I propose that our parliamentary research proposal, which we submitted to the head of the TBMM, which has been held on the shores of Karasu district of Sakarya, which has been under construction for the past five years, should be held on Tuesday (now) in the General Assembly, reading 20,03,2012. In favour of the nationalist Action Group's proposal, the first statement is from Mr. Münir Kutluata. Here you go, Mr. Kutluata.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0034par0433	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party regarding our group proposal. I salute the High Council. My condolences to the families and the Turkish nation, who have been martyred in Afghanistan. Dear lawmakers, our proposal for research on our group proposal, our motion for parliamentary research, is to determine the causes of coastal erosion on the coasts of Sakarya province, the immediate implementation of necessary measures. The discussion of this problem in parliament would mean preparing for similar events in other parts of our country; that is one of the reasons why it has been put into parliament's research. On the other hand, the fact that the problem has not been resolved so far shows that our relevant institutions do not have the necessary knowledge. So, it's about our belief that the Council, without discrimination, should be dealt with by our political parties in hand, the second reason is that we're making a case for the research motion. Dear MPs, indeed, the issue of erosion, which has been happening in Karasu for the past five years, has crossed the borders of Sakarya, and has been moved to Turkey's agenda. From time to time in the press, this area, which has very large beaches, melts sea beaches, narrows the coast, narrows the coast, while in some places the sand piles up in another region, and in some places the coast expands. Before I go into my statements, I'd like to present to you some photographs of what you might be interested in: one of them is that the DLH General Directorate -- in its previous name -- is related to some investments in the sea as a precaution, which has not been achieved, has only produced an ugly image in the region. Another image: the erosion in the region has reached the point of tearing down summer homes in the region, and this is the only way the subject has been moved to the agenda. Another image is that some of the necessary investments in the region cause erosion in one place by changing the direction of the currents in the sea, causing new coastal expansion elsewhere. In this regard, it seems that the measures taken in this regard were not sufficient and the erosion continues. Now, I'd like to tell you about some of the features of this region that is subject to erosion: Sakarya's sea beach is 55km long and has broad beaches in uninterrupted integrity. In the Black Sea, the beaches, which are inadequate because of the mountains' steeping in the sea, are rich in Sakarya, in other parts of our country that cannot be found easily. After this mountain structure, which ends 7 or 8km west of Akçahuk district of Düzce, a vast and beautiful coastline emerges. This region, which is naturally the Black Sea property, has marmara properties in terms of climate, is within the closest foot of the sea for a very important part of our country's population. As a matter of fact, Istanbul is one and a half hours away, and Ankara is two and a half to three hours away. The world-famous Agars Longozu and its natural wonder, Mining Creek and Smallmouth, are in this region. Our demands for this region to be included in tourism development areas have yet to be answered. Although it is declared a region of cultural and tourism protection, it does not cover the east of the Sakarya River. In the east of the Sakarya River, 20 miles [30 km] [30 km] [30 km] [30 km] [30 km] [5 km] [30 km] [30 km] [5 km] [30 km] [30 km] [5 km] [30 km] [30 km] [5 km] [5 km] [30 km] [5 km] [5 km] [30 km] [5 km] [5 km] [3 km] [3 km] [3 km] [3 km] [3 km] [3 km] [3 km] [3 km] [3 km] [3 km] [3 km] [3 km] [3 km] [3 km] [3 km] [3 km] [3 km] [3 km] [3 km] [4 km] [4 km] [4 km] [4 km] [4 km] [4 km] and] [3 km] [9 km] [9 Obviously, this cut has not been examined by the relevant. We're talking about a day-to-day visit area of nearly a third of the population of Turkey. As for the problem, the esteemed lawmakers appear in the form of coastal erosion, on the shores of the Blackwater, on the west side of the Sakarya River, and in an area of about 10km [10 km] to the east of the Mining Creek. The beach is seen on the beach as a retreat, and in some places the coast is narrowed down, and in some places the geographical structure of coastal expansion is broken. Since Karasu also took the city beach, he had a chance to come to the public's agenda, which was discovered five years ago. The fact that it happened later indicates that it was related to an intervention in nature. What needs to be known, what needs to be learned, what we want to know, what interventions have been effective in this work, and they need to be identified. If those interventions were inescapable, what countermeasures were and why they were not taken, they need to be known. If those interventions are not mandatory, they need to be abandoned, they need to be identified. The following are the issues considered to be the cause of this development: There's talk of the arrangement of the Sakarya River mouth, the construction of the Blackwater Port, the arrangement of the Mine Creek mouth, and it's said that these arrangements caused new currents in the sea, in which they cut off the currents and caused the natural structure to break. Along the Sakarya River, countless sand furnaces are expressed to prevent the sea from feeding. It is said that a large shipment of sand made for commercial purposes on the beach caused this. It is stated that it is effective that the bottom of the sea is constantly being scanned for the purpose of searching for the sea's stomach. In all of this, Sakarya has been able to do the following studies: First, he endeavored to preach, then tried to understand why, and waited for measures and measures to be put into effect. During that time, our former investor, whose name was DLH, whose name was renamed DLH, was changed by the decree of the law, did a survey in this area and, in its own way, tried to build a number of constructions that were steeped into the sea, called the "mahmuzmuz," and this time parallel investments were made to the beach, which were declared to be 27, but only seven could be done. It seems that our relevant organizations do not have the necessary knowledge to understand what the reasons are, and therefore have not taken clear steps to determine what can be done. So, it also shows that the overall consideration of this issue requires immediate measures before the budget grounds are laid out, by the Parliament, and by the government, by recognizing the seriousness of the work, by grasping its seriousness. An inadequacies in the practice is that these spurs, parallel wave breakers, have covered a narrow area as a distance, as a space, and the measure for the entire area has not been considered. Any citizen who can get into Google Earth will see it there. If they look at the construction of both the mouth of Sakarya and the river of Mines, even the arrangement of the mouth of a stream carves one side of the stream, creating new beaches on the other side. It is known that sand trade sites and sand trade companies have emerged there. In this regard, I expect the House to handle the matter without a political party distinction, and the government to implement it immediately, thank you, all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0035par0454	Thank you, Mr. Kutluata. The first word against the nationalist Action Group's proposal belongs to Mr. Hasan Ali Çelik. Here you go, Mr. Steel. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Steel, the ruling party's MPs usually sit in the front. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0036par0460	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish you all good work. My respects to all of you. I have been sworn in against this motion by the National Movement Party to investigate. I'm Blackwater. I live in the Blackwater in Sakarya. Münir Bey's house is also there, in the village. We're from the same area together. Yeah, there's destruction here on the coast, there's erosion. We're connecting the date of this erosion to the port. A large port is being built in Karasu. It's over; it's a bid, it's all over. And at the end of it, the rest of it was re-privatized, and he's still doing it. So the county is rapidly developing on its way to development and development, through a double, through iron -- a new project port, organised industrial district, with the help of major industrial companies in the system. Of course, there is such a thing. We need to see where this came from and what it's about. After 2007 -- I mean, if it's based on port activity -- there's a partial erosion on the coast, both east of the port and west of the harbor. With the winter waves and the heavy waves in the Black Sea, it has actually increased its intensity and damaged some of its private structures along the coast. But you have to see if a step has been taken to solve this problem here, and when it does, yes, a step has been taken. In particular, the DLH General Directorate, as the General Directorate of Infrastructure Investments -- let me put it to you now -- was then followed by this study and carried out working in the area under the supervision of technical staff, saying that it should be a precaution. The shore spurs were built, that's right. Even though these spurs were relatively healing, they did not provide the necessary benefit. But as all of this goes on, it has been continued -- 2007, 2008, 2009 -- and as a result, it is known that there is no connection to the port, and there is also a coastal erosion on the west side of the port. So a editing study was asked to be conducted again. This also happened in the study, again under the supervision of the relevant Ministry -- a study has been conducted in their organization -- in the study of the Department of Transport DLH Construction General Directorate: A scientific quality, which is described as the National Simulation Model Studies Report, was also sought to find a solution as a result of the studies of both the DSI and DLH General Director's technical experts. It was also done there: Yes, the failure of these spurs to make necessary and adequate improvements was planned in this region because -- as I have just said -- these are the results of a scientific study, and as a result, it was determined to build 27 of them parallel to the coast. Not on the 27 seaboard, but within about 80 to 100 metres of the coast, we came across a technical and practical study to absorb the wave's intensity within a metre to two metres of the water's depth, three meters of the water's depth, and to prevent the wave's impact from allowing erosion. Has it ever been done? Yes, it's been done. The original start date was 2010, and the parallel wavebreaker activity was made in the first three years, four in 2011, from seven in 27. Perhaps it can be said here that the speedy use of the country's resources may be quick, but perhaps we too wish to speed it up a little bit? And I know that the general managerial authorities, whom I often meet, whom I talk to, will have reduced the destruction in the region this year, some of the remaining 20 ripples this year, perhaps a significant part this year, perhaps by the completion of some of them this year. Of course, I'd like to share the results with you. It's been taken care of. Since we live there, half the islands are almost formed. You can walk up and down to the shore, to the beach, from the front of that seaboard. And these breakers are about 100 meters tall, not that small, but a structure, a sea structure. It's not like the spurs were removed from the shore and dumped somewhere else. On the contrary, the upright spurs there, yes, are being taken out of there immediately, because they can't fully perform its function, and it's being used to build the seafaring parallel to the shore, and the solution is being taken, and the necessary steps are being taken. Now what? This winter's violent Black Sea waves actually destroyed some houses there, created some problems, but we have a Mayor of the National Movement Party in Karasu. Our mayor has notes, and he's following them. We have problems from time to time. Karasu Mayor Mehmet İspiroglu tells reporters that after the completion of the port's open ban launched in 1995, the coast was eroded. The sea swallowed up our beach and sand within a two-mile radius of the harbor and the coast. Waves have destroyed nearly 20 buildings on the coast with no residence and no license." he said. It goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and It's the first time DLH's done it in the Blackwater. It's been done in Holland, it's been helped, and the same system is being implemented in the Blackwater. When it's all done, there won't be any more erosion on our beach. We're cleaning up the unregistered buildings on the beach. The best sand in the world is in the Blackwater. We won't let that happen either. He's saying something else, and this is a newspaper story in a local newspaper again. This is what I say to the National Movement Party: "Is that what their own man says?" We're not a mayor of the EC PARTY, we're a mayor of the National Movement Party. Mr. Mayor says that the houses that were destroyed were already fugitives. Karasu Mayor Mehmet İspiroglu recently said that the houses on the shoreline of the beaches that had been destroyed by the waves were illegal buildings, and if anyone had anything to do with it -- Little Karasu village -- that's about four or five kilometers away from the Blackwater center, where the waves were active, where the erosion was active. Over there, right now, on the shores of Little Karasu village for a few days -- not today -- eight or ten trucks, ladle and sands are being taken off the coast and forwarded to another activity. It could be asked right now, but that's what I'm getting. So we're not supposed to be doing any of this. When we're protecting the coast, we're filling up rocks, we're building coastal inspections, we're making ripples, we're clearing the coast, we're emptying those beautiful sands, we're on the terrace, we're wrong, we're wrong, we have to question ourselves with a look like we're wrong. I wish that this work would bring blessings to both Karasu and Sakarya province. No. I'm going to vote for the research commission because I already see the work that this commission has to do within the scope of activities run by the DLH General Directorate. And the rest of them -- 20 left, seven made -- I'm saying there's going to be an important part of this year. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0037par0472	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Mr. Kutluata, please.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0038par0476	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Hasan Ali Çelik has also expressed the issue. However, it is not the fact that the measures of some work have been taken and will continue, but that these measures should be taken immediately. Second, it doesn't really matter what the municipality says about destroyed houses; the important thing is that measures are taken to cover the entire region, which cannot be taken. The most serious study was discussed in Sakarya, where the Sakarya Chamber of Civil Engineers organized a workshop, and the reasons were discussed only that way. What we're trying to say is that the relevant state department, the state institution, should take measures on this issue, not on a trial and error method, immediately, and spread them throughout the area of the erosion. Otherwise, of course, this isn't a discussion between parties. We're meant to be united, but it has to be quick. I expect investments to be accelerated by my friends in power.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0039par0483	In favour of the nationalist Action Group's proposal, the final statement belongs to Mr. Engin Özkoc. Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0040par0486	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, Mr. Münir Kutluata has made a very important statement and a motion to investigate the erosion that has been happening in Karasu for the past five years. Dear Master, since my paintings are more beautiful than yours, I'd like to show you mine as well. What you see in these pictures is the Blackwater, a beach of 55 meters. In this Blackwater, known for its proximity to Istanbul, as you can see, the houses are now underwater. Look, you see what happens to existing homes, let alone get into the sea on the Blackwater coast. I wonder how far this erosion has gone. At the moment, there are five meters, five or five meters left. Where? To the main street of Karasu. That's as far as Main Street. Dear friends, intentions are important here, so are we really going to do something like this? I like Mr. Hasan Ali Çelik. As our Sakaryan MPs, we've never had a fight, no noise. We desire that we be united in serving Sakarya. The goal is Sakarya, our Sakarya, and see what we can do. But there's no way we're getting anywhere by covering them up without telling the truth. Blackwater coast is 55 kilometers. The Agars Longoz have been taken into account by Mr. President's Secretary General Mustafa Isen and, indeed, is a logo, not only for Turkey, but also for the world. This coastline is in danger. How did it get to this point? This is what happened: this 4+4+4 thing, just like with him, was rushed, without a background check. A port will be built, the damage it will do to the Blackwater lane of the harbor, if it is built that way, if it is built by engineering error, if the breakers are built without being done, the damage it will do has not been investigated in advance. It's about the harbor, look, I've got this much paperwork that says there's been an engineering error. It's said that DLH had built a breaker there, uprightly, but he saw that there was no solution. Now he'll solve it by making sunken breakers. A total of 27 are needed, seven have been made. There's good faith here, too. Hopefully, those 20 will be done in the future. After Karasu Street left? While DLH was doing this, using government money, using its budget to find out if it really worked? Regarding this, in 2010, İstanbul Technical University's Faculty of Construction, Water and Marine Sciences and Research Centre presented a report and showed that they were not passed on in their reports. In 2010, there was also a study of him called the Temporal Analysis of Coastal Erosion in the Black Sea region of the West Coast, where a study was conducted, and it was made very clear. Now, my dear friends, the shoreline in the Blackwater is under erosion. I'll make our logic clear to you. You're driving away, there's one sign: watch out, there's erosion! What's the vehicle going to do? So I'm wondering -- there's scientists and stuff -- what are we gonna do? So he's just gonna walk through there with his hand like this in case a rock falls out of there or something? What's he gonna do, open an umbrella? He's gonna stop his car and slip away from the side? So logic is that logic, guys; that's what I'm talking about. There is trouble in the Blackwater. He's at 4 meters of main street. Only seven of the sunken breakers were made to be done. Mayor İspiroğlu is screaming from there. The president's voice sounds like this, says that the Blackwater belongs to Turkey without any party distinction. Come on, let's stop this disaster. There's got to be 20 breakers down here right now. This country is ours. Let's do what we can with this. I don't want to stress the mood when I say this again, but if the Government of the Republic of Turkey can't find money for this, don't send money with luggage to places without work; if they can't find money for it, don't make military expenses for our soldiers to become martyrs; if they can't find money for it, the tablet will remove the computer from the Public Loan Act and give it to Karasu. Intentions are important here. If the intention is good, the Government of the Republic of Turkey will find the money to split it immediately; it is 55km long, very close to Istanbul, and Sakarya's pupil, Karasu, will gain life as soon as possible. Here, as Mr. Hasan Ali Çelik put it, there is warped construction, correct; it must be blocked at once. From here, really, the sand is still being taken, and the distortions are still allowed from time to time; they must be prevented. The more people want it, the more they want it, but we have to stop it as a government. They do. The government is not the place to complain. The government is a place of action. The government will say, "You are not going to build there illegally." It's the government's office that's going to put money out of the budget right now and have 27 breakers built. The government is the authority to take the measure on the port, where there was an engineering error. The government is the authority to prevent destruction from reaching the street in 15 meters and 15 meters. That is why we have done enough work, and after that, there is no need to do anything else. His understanding is wrong. This is the government's job. The opposition's job is to bring it to the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, attract the government's attention and be the voice of the region concerned about it. The opposition carried out its mission with the support of the Republican People's Party, provided by the MPP. The government of the Republic of Turkey is next. If he fulfills his mission, a region of us will truly survive the ordeal. With these feelings, I salute you with respect and love, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0041par0501	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. Mr. Ali Ihsan Yavuz has the final word against the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Yavuz.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0042par0505	Mr. President, I have made a commitment against the MHP group proposal. On this occasion, I salute you all. At the very beginning of my speech, in honor of this weekend's 97th edition of the Canakkale Sea Victory, I celebrate with gratitude and gratitude our fallen heroes in Çanakkale, who have fallen as martyrs and veterans in Çanakkale. May their place be paradise. Again, on March 13, 2012, our soldiers who lost their lives in Konya. On March 16, 2012, my hand was killed by an accident in Afghanistan. I condemn those who have taken the opportunity to disturb the peace of our country and so-called hard work to bring our country into chaos and chaos, and express that such ulterior motives cannot be reached anywhere, and I refer the matter once again to our nation's conscience. Many issues proposed in the parliamentary research motion for erosion on the shores of Karasu districts of Sakarya have been exaggerated by a political interview, and the location has been distorted. It is absolutely true that an erosion occurred in Sakarya Karasu district, on the coast of the district, but this erosion, as mentioned, is never seen anywhere in the Black Sea region, and is not seen only in the Blackwater region. The wild and wavy form of the Black Sea, the ground, unfortunately produces similar erosions in the coastal areas of the Black Sea. Of course, the situation in Sakarya Karasu district is a little different, but when this situation is resolved, there are certain reasons for what happened in Karasu district today that are very ancient. For example, in the 1960s, a thousand plots of land were sold here, but they were not registered because they remained within the shoreline. In this area, the land owners started building without a license and, unfortunately, 13 buildings were licensed in a place that was removed in 1984 and is now located within the shoreline. Before and after the development pardon, unfortunately, illegal construction continued, especially between 1984 and 1999, when illegal structures continued to take place, which were abandoned immediately to the invasion of illegal structures, which was the SODEP of 1984-1989, the Social Democratic Party of 1989-1994, which was managed by the People's Party of Socialdemocratics, 1994-1999, by ANAP. The identification of illegal structures was first made by the AK PARTY municipality, in 2003-2004, and then destroyed by the construction of illegal buildings within the city's scope. Our karasu district is a beautiful town north of Sakarya, with its long shore, beach and fertile land. This county continues to grow every day. Karasu district is on its way to becoming a really important attraction with investments in the AK PARTI ruling period and in its taking place. In addition to the investments made by the Central Government, investments have been made by the AK PARTI (EC) municipality of Karasu, which served from 2003 to 2009. The port construction, shipyard investments, double roads, and the railway that began to build the Blackwater has entered a dazzling trend of ascension. The 62km-long railway road from Sakarya to Karasu is due to reach its destination from Karasu, which was tendered on 02/11/2010, was launched in April 2011, and is planned to be completed in 2013, which is 320m euros. Mr. Engin Ozkoc, our most esteemed MP, who, of course, is very warm, very intimate, we have very good relations as Sakaryan MPs, but that does not prevent a fact from being expressed, nor does it ever prevent you from correcting a mistake. See, AK PARTY has never had a financial problem. Again, I want to illustrate: Engin Bey'in, as Mr. Engin Ozkoc Bey, our MP, knew very well that in the days when we took power, I believe Anasol-M government was at work, during the reign of Anasol-M, one of the most important problems of Sakarya, in 2002, was taking the floor above the SEC Hospital, which cost only 2 trillion. I was running for Central District in those days, I was President of Sakarya, and there was only one thing that was said in Sakarya: we'll vote, but as long as you get the last floor of this hospital. It only cost 2 trillion, which was only 2 million if we convert the money that day into today's money. However, the money that will be spent only on the railway is 320 million TL, and I wanted to explain that. Again, the erosion in our karasu district has really upset us all; it's a different matter. We, of course, agree on the idea of increasing measures for such erosions, which may have been experienced from time to time, or rather because of the fierce and vicious waves of the Black Sea. For this reason, the DLH, the General Directorate of the Railways, Ports and Air Square Construction was built in 2010, with a total of seven, each 110 meters long, 100 meters apart from the coast, 100 meters offshore, with a total of 27, and the DLH, the Ministry of Transport, will continue to make peyderpey. And again, Mr. Engin mentioned a financial problem. It's like the Republic of Turkey doesn't have any money, and that's why they're causing these erosions because they don't have the necessary steps. I want to fix it so it doesn't form an image like that. Although hospital services failed because there were not only 2 trillion in 2002, $1,940,000 was spent only for this place, so hopefully it will continue to be built, including 27. I regret to say that the last erosion of Karasu East Black Sea Street -- which is very important, and I particularly want to stress -- is that the sand dunes in the north, since the National Movement Party was removed from work in 2009, were more likely to happen now, which now, at this time, realizes that what you did was a mistake, and are starting to re-employ these hills to collect sand from other places. In fact, despite the photographs shown here by Mr. Engin Ozkoç Bey, I wish I had been prepared to show other kinds of photos. He certainly is not the image of the Blackwater. The Blackwater is, indeed, very smooth on the edge, its greenness is great and its beaches are great; in terms of tourism, it's a place where everyone has to draw attention, and it's taking investments one after another. I'm running out of time, so to speak, I'd like to make one last statement. The central power, certainly, as it has been so far, is trying to fulfill its responsibility after that. However, hopefully, by other ruling parties, by municipalities, as in the previous process, the mayor today, the Mayor, the Mayor of the National Movement Party Mayor, hopes that these illegal structures will not be tolerated, says he salutes all of you once again, saying that this group's proposal is against the group's group proposal for nationalist Action.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0043par0520	Thank you, Mr. Yavuz.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0044par0521	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit01spe0043par0522	All right, I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit to your votes the National Party of Action Group, those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0043par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the nationalist movement group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted, there is enough to decide. [[The voices of the EC PARTY were not accepted.]] Did I say that? Sustained. Sehven is untreated. I said, I apologize to the General Assembly. [[The voices of the EC PARTY were not accepted.]] Unacceptable... why are you confusing me? Unacceptable. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Sehven, I'm sorry I said that wrong.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0045par0011	It's okay, we'll object to that.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0043par0012	There's enough to make a decision. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0045par0015	He went to the reports, but it's been accepted. The statement has been filed, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0043par0016	But I said "secure."
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0045par0017	We'll look for the back of this, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0043par0018	No, what's done is done to me, Your Honor.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0045par0019	But it's in the transcripts, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0043par0020	No, I just said you're a detective. What happens happens to me. No.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0046par0021	Let nothing happen to you, Mr. President, we need you.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0043par0022	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0047par0023	I mean, I can't say anything. If Mr. Mehmet Sabin had been, we'd object.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0043par0024	No, the legal error would be mine, so that's where it would be.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0047par0025	I don't know.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0043par0026	Mr. Kutluata, please.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0048par0029	Mr. President, the Sakarya MP, our fellow citizen, Mr. Yavuz, has just said that we have exaggerated this motion with political intent. It's obvious there's no such purpose in this. If we were to discuss the issue for political purposes, there is an unlimited issue in Turkey, which is known to them. But this incident in Sakarya, Karasu, that we want, should be dealt with by hand, without the political parties seeing the difference, that's what we're talking about. I have to say, I don't find it pleasant to do this kind of politics here because the mayor is a member of the MHP. This is also happening in Sakarya, outside of the municipal borders. If our congressman had been careful with him, he wouldn't have used those statements. I still want them to keep an eye on the matter and solve this problem in our region. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0043par0031	Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0049par0033	Mr. President, there's just been a word here about the Grandad massacre. The PKK has committed the massacre of the chieftains, and we curse them. It's the PKK. It is not fitting to pair Sivas. Majors, 20 kilometers to my hometown. The PKK has killed 35 of our citizens overnight. Therefore, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has made the Prime Minister, and I want you to know that.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0043par0034	Dear Metiner...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0050par0036	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't make a match, I just pointed out the double standard of some of our MPs in Parliament.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0051par0038	We curse!
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0050par0039	I don't know why the CHP guys took it personally, but I meant others. So you're going to talk about human rights, and you're going to brutally slaughter our innocent, sinless 33 citizens in the middle of the night. I did that review. I don't understand Mr. Aslanoglu's and CHP's feisty. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0051par0041	We're not being touchy, we're being cursed.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0050par0042	Thank you. We're supposed to curse every kind of terror together.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0052par0043	Mr. Reminder, here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0053par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, the affair of the Prime Minister is a despicable act of terror. Our MPs at the time have gone all the way to the Prime Minister's office to investigate the incident. Sivas is a rebellion against the republic. Those who do not curse both things sincerely and openly are without principle. Furthermore, the patriots, leftists, revolutionaries of this country have never been happy with the statute of limitations. On the contrary, they've always demanded that their case be over as soon as possible. Their foreheads must have been white. It's good to have everything in its place. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0054par0049	The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. 20.03.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday, 20,03,2012 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 02,02,2012, İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and his friends suggested that the Turkish Assembly of the Grand National Assembly be read to the Turkish Parliament on "the conditions of the prison and the improvement of these conditions in which prisoners are in prison and shall be carried out in the same joint session of parliamentary research for which they will be conducted." The first statement in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is from İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0055par0064	Thank you, Mayor. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the conditions of the prisons in Turkey. I'd like to tell you a little bit about what's going on, what's going on, what's going on in the prisons in Turkey, and then I'll go back to the legal dimension, dear friends. Now, in fact, close to 941 people have died in prison so far. So in a healthy state, he went to prison in a healthy manner, but 941 of our citizens died in prison. The goal of prisons is to punish one and to bring him back to society after he has committed a crime, and how we can reform him, and their conditions must be prepared. But does today's prisons really have a mending quality, or does it turn into a professional crime-making machine that can commit a crime, not a reformer once they've been in and out of prison? So this is a question that the government, the government, the Ministry must ask itself. Whether a person commits a crime or not, when he goes to prison as a suspect or as a prisoner, at least the prisoner or the prisoner in prison has as much right to live as the people outside. In fact, if the person is ill, if he is not able to recover, under the 16th Amendment of our Execution Act, he can be put in prison only after his treatment is taken outside. What's the basic philosophy here? First it's human health, first it's human healing. So if a person's health is in danger, this person's sentence or detention period must be postponed until he recovers. From the prisoners who are now inside, when you go online immediately, who is disturbed by the conditions of the prison? Sener Eruygur, Major General, had a cerebral hemorrhage; November Erdem, Major General, Hasdal had a brain hemorrhage; Professor Dr. Fatih Hilmioğlu, liver cancer; Professor Dr. Erol Manisalı, liver cancer was diagnosed with diagnosis; Kudddi Okrır, died; Explorer Kozinoglu, died; Yusuf Erikel, a colleague, a lawyer friend of ours, was diagnosed with genetic cancer, which is now a major challenge. Some of the ministers present in the government are also on the list of the ministers of Yusuf Erikel, and some of you are on the list of the cabinets of our esteemed colleagues, Yusuf Erikel. So Yusuf Erikel has been arrested, thrown into prison, sued, but no statements have been taken about those on his list of ministers, no investigations have been launched. Professor Mehmet Haberal had four heart spasms. So it's possible to increase that number. Professor Dr. Ayşe Yüksel has been diagnosed with cancer again. Now, here, still, in the heat of human rights, the Subcommittee of Human Rights, both in Osmaniye, and in the conditions sent by the Republican People's Party, our friends have studied the conditions in prison. In the prison in Osmaniye, the prisoner or prisoner who entered the prison was sent to prison naked. Dear friends, this is not an act of human honor, it's not an appropriate punishment. So there's no tolerance in this punishment, dear friends, for being stripped naked like this. About the children of women who were in prison in the same way in Osmaniye, sir, food is not provided because they are not convicted. It is said, "Why is it not given? " This is not a prisoner, sir, because this is prepared, which cannot be given to those who are not convicted in the generalty of the Ministry of Justice. Dear friends, the reason for this is that, in fact, when we look at the generalization of the Ministry of Justice, with women who are at ease -- convicted -- children should be given employment in line with the age of children. But what is it? Of course, it's due to the poor and arbitrary attitudes of the prison administration there. It is also said that, at the same time, there are not enough resources to justify the lack of food value for those in prison. Dear friends, our friends just said the government is not the source of Adapazari. Without resources, there is no source. I am funding from here: Dear friends, Citibank had a tax debt of $3 billion. There is no source. I speak to the government, saying: The $3 billion debt of Citibank is forgiven by the Finance Minister. There is no source. It is the source of our friends. What did Citibank do when his tax debt was forgiven? Citibank also congratulated the AKP for the return of the EC PARTY to power. So there is no source. To our friends, one: If they hadn't forgiven the $3 billion in Citibank, this resource could have been used. What could be done with this resource, if Citibank had not been forgiven the tax debt of $3 billion? Our 30 million villagers would have had as much money as $2.9 billion in it. This would also cover 2,22,000 tonnes of villager diesel consumption in Turkey, valuable friends. We're coming again, there's no source. The people who told them: Belbeton Ash was sold for 22 trillion dollars when the market value was 80-100 trillion in Ankara. Belbeton is a subsidiary of Ankara Metropolitan Municipality. This company's only got one machine insurance policy -- six trillion valuable friends from Anadoli Insurance. The job this company is currently taking is again -- sold -- a 40 million TL contract has been made, a $100 million separate job and a 500 million job has been taken from the General Directorate of the Highways. And who was this Belbeton Inc sold to? Sold to Young Construction. So, what's Young Construction's relationship with Mr. Ankara Metropolitan Mayor? When he got into the same fight with his kids, did they have their testimony in that fight? Do they have a partnership or not? And at the same time, are these stones made without basalt dust in the top layer of these stones, or are they not made? In this regard, I invite both the Ministry of Interior and the Court. So Belbeton, which is sold for 22 million TL, has tenders for 40 million dollars in ready work, 150 million dollars and 500 million euros in future work, and far more valuable friends than Anadolu Insurance, which is the establishment of the Business Bank. Again, let me tell you another source: the government, which collects taxes from citizens' minimum wage, drinking water, eating food, not taking taxes from the stock market, dear friends. I mean, really, if it's called "no resources," it's a stock market source. What are foreign companies doing, dear friends? Foreign companies -- we have friends in law -- are exempt from tuition in all the cases they filed in Turkey. The banks -- we don't have a national bank -- all banks are exempt from tuition in their cases. So the reason for not investing is that if there's a lack of resources, there's really resources, our resources are being squandered. I thank you, all of you, with all due respect, and ask you to support the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0056par0081	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. The first word against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is from Mr. Idris Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0057par0085	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the CHP group proposal. I salute your high council. First of all, I deeply care about the physical conditions of punishment and detention and the fact that such an issue has been brought up about prisoners and prisoners who have spent their time there, and I respectfully present my opinion on behalf of the AK PARTI Group to your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, the prisons, especially after the time of their return home operations, were set to begin at the beginning of the year 99 at the beginning of the 2000s, until the end of the last days, in very good physical positions and conditions. Again, the situation of the prisoners and prisoners who remain here has been organised by the Penal Execution Institutions and the Watch Boards of Prisons, a law that entered into force in 2001, and with commissions established in every judicial environment, at least thirty-five years, medical, pharmaceuticals, law, public administration, sociology, psychology, social services, education sciences and so forth, has been established by at least four years of higher education institutions, or by graduating from higher education institutions outside the country, and by working at least ten years in public institutions or private sectors in relation to their profession; by working with a record of ethics, and by an honest association of social services, social services and societological services, and society. This monitoring board regularly monitors the conditions of the prison once every at least two months to see if there has been any spiritual torture against the remaining prisoners or if they have any complaints at their own health point or if they've been taken to the infirmary, and as a result of their monitoring, they provide reports to the local state's state's attorney, the Ministry of Justice and the Commission for Human Rights. Regarding four prisons that CHP has expressed in its motion, I would like to state from this point on the conditions of Kandira, Diyarbakır, Silivri and Tekirdağ prisons: there are over three hundred and eighty-five closed prisons all over our country. Every citizen who lives here is sacred and precious to us. Because our fundamental motto in politics is to keep a man alive so that the state can live. So, no matter what happens, not every prisoner who has not been convicted has ever been convicted in our eyes as a result. We are obliged to present all conditions and services that are necessary to our citizens in prison as human beings, even though his sentence has been passed, but especially when we assess the safety of prisons, our dear colleague has expressed very well here, the healers, the Bayrampaşa prisons, right next door to us, we must never forget the positions of the Ulucan prison, the former Diyarbakır prison. I'm a member of the Çankırı MP, a brother of yours who has been the head of the bar for two semesters, and as a brother who eats the bread of prisons with criminal counsel, I'm a very well-behaved follower, and especially in the medical conditions of the prisons lately, we're pleased to see that there have been some very positive developments in the messages we've received from the inmates and inmates there. Of course, is that enough? Of course, it's not possible to expect human rights to be free of communication, to have other physical conditions, housing, eating needs all the way out in a closed environment. However, when we look at samples from the European Court of Human Rights in Turkey today, we do not find much of a problem. The important thing is, of course, that the patient, especially expressed in the motion, is that the obstetrician is on duty in the infirmary, even though there are no female prisoners in the Silivri Closed Prison. In particular, our request from the Minister of Health has many provinces of Anatolia, where there are no obstetricians at many points, and we think it would be much more appropriate if they were sent there first. I also know that such an assessment is not appropriate because emergency physicians or practitioners are on guard duty in prisons, and I'm investigating. It's just been expressed here as an opinion, and we already understand from the motion that there's been no clear identification. Hopefully, it's our wish, it's our wish, it's our wish, to provide the nation with all the opportunities that honor both our prisoners and our prisoners in any prison. At this point, we are happy to have seen the physical conditions of both open penal institutions and prisons in which prisoners are concentrated, not only when we compare the former prison with the former prison of Diyarbakır, İstanbul and Ankara, but when we go to every point. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Your Honor, I would like to express, of course, that any legal work that needs to be done on the basis of the law will be behind us as an AK PARTY Group.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0058par0092	There are guards of executions, executions.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0057par0093	But I would like to point out from here that the fact that conditions in prison have been brought to the agenda of the House on such an important matter is not a priority issue at this time. As for the guards of the execution...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0058par0095	Tell me about him. They're all miserable.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0057par0096	It is clear that our justice commissions have been given a very serious opportunity and that all of the officers of the execution guard who will be working here have been carefully elected by our justice commissions. Of course, given their economic resources and our country's budget...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0058par0097	No shifts, 24 hours on duty, no vacations.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0059par0098	Mr. Aslanoglu, please...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0057par0099	We have reason to believe that it will be brought to a much better point. I want to make it very clear that once upon a time in the courthouse, behind the manuscript, behind the draft papers, behind the election papers, we, my valued colleagues, know very well that we've received court records. I assure you that during the process from 2002 to 2012, the Ministry of Justice's work -- the General Directorate of Ceza and Tevfikas -- especially from the labour dorms budget, as we see very well-equipped palaces all over the country, we can see where this country is coming from at once. I want to express here, especially in terms of physical conditions -- that's where the bar is coming from -- the economic power, the physical conditions that our bar offices, the NGOs in Turkey, have come from. In front of you, I want to thank our great nation, and what its sense of right and justice is and what its sense of justice is and the foundation of justice. I want to thank the government of the EC PARTI and the nation behind it. I hereby declare that we will be against the CHP group proposal and that we will vote in this way, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0060par0104	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, the second statement belongs to Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0061par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs of the Turkish nation, I am congratulating our martyrs on the 97th anniversary of the battle of Çanakkale, which continues for about a year and is crowned each day with a separate victory. I ask mercy for all 12 of our soldiers who were killed in Afghanistan, and patience for their families. I believe that God will bring them together in heaven. As a tribute to their saintly memory, I'd like to express that we can pay them a piece of our debt by watering them with pure and pure blood, by promising them that we won't divide the land they built, that we won't take down the Turkish flag without sending it, and that we won't tear up the Turkish nation. As I begin my remarks on the motion by the Republican People's Party to investigate the conditions of the prisons for the opening of parliamentary research for the problems of the prisoners, I also salute all the underdogs in prison with the logic of the fox and coyotes who were beaten to death by the Istanbul MP Mr. Engin Alan, who served as deputy to the Turkish nation on June 12th as part of his national will, had no hat on his head. I also condemn and condemn the government, which does not change the terms of long-term detention, which does not alter the victims, who has not changed the wishes of the nation, who has been elected MP Engin Alan and the other MPs elected to act as deputys of the nation's will, and who have not demonstrated the will to remove the regulations that prevent them from serving. Mr. President, lawmakers, one of the actors of the penal system is the prison, the other is the prison, and another is the punishment regime. First, it is important to ensure that the external protection of prisons is made by the Justice Department staff, private security. It's a very important issue for the gendarmes to cause trouble to prisoners who go to trial on the grounds of lack of personnel. It's important that this mission be assigned to private security. The staff and legal regulations that exist in this matter must be carried out immediately. One of the most important elements of the execution system is the officers, especially the execution officers, and these officials are in serious trouble. Within our penal system, which sees the prison system as a rehabilitation, it is of course important to satisfy the material, spiritual needs of the penal officers who are most closely in contact with the prisoner. Therefore, first, it is necessary to discuss and resolve the problems of correctional officers. I'd like to give you an example of these problems: an execution guard in an L-type prison walks an average of 18 kilometers per day, the F-type number is 12 kilometers. The prisoner is a paralegal who has worked for 18km and 25 years in total, doing so for eight and a half years of his life. 18 kilometers a day for eight and a half years, and we don't even have phones to bring to the General Assembly Hall, no computers. Eight-and-a-half years, a place of employment, a day-to-day search, and a day-to-day prison, a day-to-day prison, and a day-to-day prison. They want a horse, not a camel. They want to be part of the safety and security services class, the punishment guards and the right to wear out under Article 40 of Law 5510. The Department of Justice and its other employees want to take advantage of their hard-working fees. Execution agencies demand that additional indicators be organised and increased according to the status their pensioners deserve, depending on the degree of difficulty the wages given to their employees. Law 6111 and the Justice Department demand the right to union organisation given to other employees. They also want the weapons given to them on duty as part of their safety to be exempted from tuition, even after they retire. They want at least the associations they've established on platforms where they're discussing these issues because there are no union organisation of criminal execution officers working at criminal execution institutions. There's no way to talk about a healthy criminal execution system without these problems being solved. On the other hand, having new modern prisons first included in the system cannot solve physical problems. Today, the capacity in our prisons is 80,000 people, but it's compressed up to 116 thousand, but the number of prisoners and prisoners is about 130,000. Here's what the difference is. Each prisoner cannot be given a bed, so the prisoners can sleep in two or three shifts. In order to open new beds, the common use areas are converted into dorms and the areas are narrowed down. The painting, such as music, is either reduced or removed completely. The opportunities for food are not enough for people and the quality is very low. The washing of prisons is a problem on its own. The government, who on every occasion talks about the record of the republic's era, should also talk about some of its records. Turkey, for example, is one of Europe's largest prisons. Turkey is one of the largest number of prisoners in Europe. Turkey has a criminal regime that lasts most of Europe's detention period. In Turkey, where there are around 59,000 prisoners in 2002 and only 15 per cent of the number are imprisoned, there are over 130,000 prisoners today, and close to 50 per cent of them are arrested. The reason for these terrible numbers is the AKP governments, who have ruled the state for ten years. Over the past nine years, AKP's ambition to seize, manipulate, and govern the judiciary is the main reason for this painting. The concept of judgment no longer inspires justice, neutrality, equality in the minds. The judiciary now inspires a sense of fear in the minds of the AKP, a part of it, and for those who do not think like the AKP. The AKP has begun to cast mud because it was not under its command at one time and not be dusted after the Constitutional referendum on September 12, 2010 and the implementation of its laws. In Sincan, the problem was solved by providing the proper judges, prosecutors, to be appointed to special cases after the new arrangements were stated that the grandfathers had appointed as judges. From time to time, why don't you go after your own judgment? There are those who say, "No, there isn't." We are in favor of the judges and prosecutors of the Turkish nation, not of the sectarians, not of the politicians, not of the community, but of the Turkish nation alone. The desire to be so enthusiastic and passionate has also provided the AKP with advantages. For example, the lost trillion cases ended well. For example, the charity, fitness, alms, and sacrifice money of pure Muslims have been protected and protected by scammers who have built a television channel for themselves, bought ships, made politics. For example, those who slaughtered people in pig bonds could whistle and walk out of jail. Cosmic rooms can be deciphered under the pretext of an assassination trial. For some reason, the AKP has expired cases that could put its bureaucrats and politicians in trouble. He was allowed to lead his organization from the Imran. We have a negotiation with terror, and let's not bring up this ACK for a few years. The trial was called Habur, march and march, and mobile courts were established. The fraud investigation could be left to the post-election so that the AKP would not harm the election. Operations have been carried out on non-AKP municipalities through the judiciary, and the infrastructure of the 2014 local elections has been prepared. You've aligned the judgment over the HSYK. Bureaucracy, academy, college and judgment, you've taken over everything. Now there is no judge to flee from the oppressors of Bavaria and seek refuge in Berlin. Mahmoud Assad Bozkurt, who added the word "public" to the title of prosecutor, is aching at the grave. When you came to power, you were talking about the responsibility of the lamb that grazed on the edge of Fırat. Now that lamb is under arrest for his thoughts. The sheepdog in that herd is under arrest for the organization, for having claws, for being arrested for armed organization. The shepherd is under arrest for aiding and abetting the organization. The people are writhing in the empire of fear. And the coyotes who attacked the herd are very pleased with you, and they expect you to give them to them when. I hereby declare that we will be in favor of the Republican People's Party's inquiry motion, and salute the MPs of the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0062par0128	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. The last word against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal belongs to Mr. Yusuf Başer. Here you go, Mr. Basher.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0063par0132	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I wish God's mercy to our 12 soldiers who have been martyred in Afghanistan, to their grieving families and to our beloved nation. Dear MPs, I have taken a pledge against the group proposal given by the CHP Group regarding the conditions of the prisoners and prisoners in prisons. I hereby salute our great coven and our beloved nation. Dear lawmakers, there are 377 prisons and institutional houses in our country as of 15/12/2011, and 121,804 people benefit from their homes. The number of detention institutions and detention centers, reduction of operating costs, rapid reduction of quality in the ministry, modern execution understanding, is intended for this purpose, in which our country is closed from 2006 to 118 prisons, which do not comply with international norms and are limited to education and improvements, as well as its physical conditions and capacity. The EC PARTI governments have targeted the construction of new criminal execution institutions in accordance with modern understanding, and a study by the Justice Department has been launched since 2006, with new criminal and criminal institutions capable of health, security, mechanical and electronic and rehabilitation projects have been carried out, especially in the last six years 53 criminal execution institutions, including major cities, and 42,142 capable criminal execution institutions have been opened. In accordance with Article 18 of the Law on Execution of Penalty and Security Measures 5275, units have been opened in various Turkish penal institutions and have been activated in 2009 for prisoners with mental illness other than mental illness. The rules regarding the execution of punishment and security measures in accordance with Article 5275 have been applied to the prisoners regardless of language, religion, nationality, color, gender, regardless of their philosophical beliefs and ideas, regardless of their political and ideological beliefs, regardless of their economic powers and social classes, regardless of their privileges. The main goal to achieve with the execution of punishment and security measures is primarily to ensure general and private prevention, to strengthen preventing the prisoner from committing a new crime, to protect society from crime, to encourage the re-socialization of the prisoner, to create productive, law, regulations, and social rules, to gain new individuals with respect and responsibility. The lack of freedom, which the freedom of freedom, which the binding sentence of freedom, which has been forced to maintain a regular life in criminal execution institutions, has been brought to a standstill under the divine and moral conditions that ensure the preservation of respect for human dignity. The execution of the sentence was carried out according to the basis of justice. For this purpose, criminal execution agencies have been audited by qualified personnel on the basis of the powers vested in by law, regulations and regulations. I present to you a brother who is also a member of the detention board at the penal and execution institutions, who is also the three-term Bar President in Yozgat. The 4681 Criminal Execution Institutions and the Watch Boards of Prisons, which took effect in 2001, was established in accordance with the Law and the penal institutions and the detention institutions and detention institutions established in accordance with the principles set by our country's international contracts, to see the executions and practices of the detentions, to ensure that they are in place, to control, to remove information and report and to relevant authorities. These monitoring boards consist of five people along with the president, making it mandatory for women to be found among those five. Dear lawmakers have also been given conditions in addition to the conditions prescribed by the state office regarding the individuals who will be elected to the detention committees, and are chosen among the honest, reliable, morally recognised around them. The prison monitoring board, execution institutions and detention centers had to see action and reform practices in place, study, extract information from administrators and officials, listen to the prisoners personally, and those duties were carried out by these boards. This board and its reports are presented to the Justice Department and to members of the Turkish Parliament's Human Rights Commission, to the Commission's heads, to the chief prosecutors of the republic, and to the criminal justice judges in which they are bound, if the results of their investigations are stable. Dear President, the esteemed lawmakers, along with the EC PARTI ruling, the ward system in prisons has been removed, the networking and extortion system in the wards has been terminated, and in the barracks 1, 3, 5, 8 people have been switched to the system of 1, 3, 5, 8. The entrances and exits in prisons have been secured, escapes from prisons have been avoided. In the past tense, cell phones, which we have marveled at on television screens, have been terminated from entering drug prisons, and prisons have been secured. In prisons, the standard of food, clothing, hot water, sporting areas, library and humanitarian services has been improved and quality improved. The prisons have been assigned ambulances, doctors, nurses, psychologists, clergy, pedagogs, social workers, master teachers and teachers, providing jobs for prisoners and prisoners. Criminal execution legislation has been adopted internationally, the standards the European Court of Human Rights has sought in prisons have been adopted, and a new system has been established by bringing the system of freedom into the audit. Prison problems have been removed from the country's agenda, along with the EC PARTY ruling. Psychosocial and support programmes for adults, juvenile prisoners and inmates are being conducted. Again, prisoners and prisoners who operate in the Yozgat Prison where I am a MP have been given professional, technical training activities to make the parkas of the Turkish Air Force, make the sheets and release these people from prison during the time they have been in prison, to maintain their lives in a manner worthy of human dignity, and when these people have been released from prisons, they have been given a job. For the prisoners and the prisoners, the AK PARTY is as it is in all parts of the ruling society, to keep the people alive so that the state can act with its understanding. We call it justice for everyone. I hereby declare myself against the proposal given by the CHP Group, and salute your grand delegation and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0064par0152	Thank you, Mr. Basher. The Republican People's Party Group recommends...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0065par0154	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit02spe0064par0155	I'll call the number of decisions I need. ...to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0064par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the Republican People's Party Group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board does not collect 20,03,2012 on Tuesday (now), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The drafting of laws and proposals of the Agenda (Law Bill and Proposals of Laws and Other Affairs from the Commissions) in 194, 74, 77, and 139 rows, shall be taken to the rankings 3, 11, 12 and 13th, and shall be considered according to the order of other tasks. On Tuesday, March 20, 2012 (today) the unspoken questions were not discussed, On Tuesday (March 27, 2012), the completion of talks on the 178th legislature, It's recommended. In favour of the Justice and Development Party's proposal, the first statement is from Mr. Ali Ercoshkun. Here you go, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0066par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our group proposal. I hereby salute your high council. As I begin with my words, I ask God's mercy on our fallen soldiers, especially in Çanakkale, and in every part of the world, as I represent our country heroically, especially in Çanakkale. Mr. President, because of the ceremony of our ministers for our martyrs and the participation of the neighbouring Bulgarian Prime Minister in some programmes in Ankara, we would like to suggest that this proposal, however, should not be discussed today, should be taken to the third place on the agenda as part of the 194-level Law Proposal, shortening the process of the return of investments to the public and reducing the cost of debt in the competitive environment with the VAT. In addition, the immediate adoption of laws 74, 77 and 139 in terms of international road transport would increase our country's international competitiveness, and the Compensation of Border Transactions on International Highway Transport Number 74 and the Completing of this Convention on the Completing European Agreement, number 77 in bill and the Transparency of Disruptionable Food Matters International Transport and the Joining Special Equipation Agreement on Transactions, and the Computing of the Highway Traffic Convention on Highway Traffics 139, and the Completing European Agreement on this Convention -- especially the international sector -- and its needs to transports in Turkey -- are directly concerned with the international sector and its needs. Therefore, we recommend that these proposals be taken to the 11th, 12th and 13th places on the agenda, and that the order of other tasks be determined accordingly. Dear lawmakers, we propose that the work be continued until March 27th and Tuesday, when the international contract number 178 next week ends. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation. This is the way our agenda will be evaluated, and I submit to the High Council's compliments. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0067par0029	The first word against the Justice and Development Party's proposal is from Mr. Mehmet Shandir. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0068par0032	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Today is Tuesday, the day our General Assembly's agenda is set. It would have been better if we had agreed on the agenda that we were going to work with, but I'm afraid it's been a long time since our General Assembly, our political parties, our groups have lost it. Two agenda proposals, discussed so far, have been rejected by lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party. We are now discussing the ruling party group's proposal. As always, ruling party group governments have made you an offer with their own decisions, without seeking a compromise again. What they say is that the laws of 194, 74, 77, and 139 are taken from the agenda to the 3rd, 11th, 12th, and 13th. It does not change the working hours, but on Tuesday, March 27, 2012, the Bill of Law, number 178, proposes until the end of the talks, which will be adopted by your votes. If you look at the agenda brochure, Law number 178 is ranked 7th, even in today's arrangement. Therefore, you will work until the end of at least five laws a day. There's another suggestion. In a letter sent to lawmakers by the Justice and Development Party, from March 27th to April 5th -- close to 400 articles or at least 300 articles -- ordering the end of eight laws; all controversial laws, 4+4+4; 2/B Laws, the Law on Common Business, Union Law and others. So if the General Assembly has to control its own agenda, by its own decision, it has to determine the hours and rankings of its own initiative, but there are instructions coming from somewhere that you're going to work and finish these laws, and then you're going to finish them. We're saying that this attitude is not appropriate with this General Assembly. We are here to create a common mind to solve society's problems, power and opposition. How will a General Assembly, a Parliament, a political institution solve the problems of this country? Appreciation is your valued ruling party, lawmakers. I believe that at the beginning of this week or the beginning of next week, this agenda that you're proposing today will change, something will be said from somewhere, a new law, a different working order, until the end of it again, will be redefined, again, the working hours and shape of our Parliament, the General Assembly. I repeat again that this way of working isn't useful, it's not true, it's not appropriate for this General Assembly. As the opposition party, as the National Movement Party, we always say that, yes, you, as the ruling authority, have the authority, the discretion, to set the agenda here, in accordance with your commitments to your programme or to the nation. Whatever law needs to be adopted to solve the country's problems is your responsibility, and the authority to discuss them is yours to determine the number of lines. But I keep telling you, this place has to be on the agenda. It's not right, it's not right, it's not respect for the nation. Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which is obliged to establish law at the point of the nation's problems, if it tries to establish law on the basis of someone's anger or someone's demand, if it tries to set an agenda based on it, it won't be elegant, it won't be right, it won't be right. Dear friends, look, the Union Act is waiting. It's almost three months since 2012. All of the government's employees, officers, officers' pensioners, martyr relatives, sir, widows and orphans, pensioners' widows and orphans, teachers, rangers, 4/Cbookers, couldn't get a salary increase in 2012. Maybe this is the first time in the history of the Republic. Why? Because you've made a constitutional amendment. You have to take the law out of the Constitutional Amendment, but you threw it out, it's waiting on the subcommittee, we've objected, now you've finished the negotiations there and you're interviewing on the top committee. As a state, as soon as you were in power in 2012, you did raises in all areas, but you didn't give the employees a raise. Dear lawmakers, I really benefit from repeating this statement: the government is the nation's unconditional and unconditional. But in order for this sovereignty to be legitimate, this state is the foundation of justice property for a period of time. We need to put it in our heads, and I think we need to write it in this opposite column. If you as a government, as a state, do not provide justice in your political practices, the legitimacy of this state is debated, the legitimacy of this House is debated. You give yourself a raise as a government, you don't give your employee a raise. It may not be right to discriminate against people from 4/C, who come from both privatisations, but each time you object, we've given them their rights. You've given them to 4/C. People who don't come without privatisation, who work in the state. Is their fee policy, their pay system fair? There are a number of lawyers among you. Two people do the same thing, one gets an x, the other gets an x plus x. Is that fair, fellas? Let's fix this. We say, you don't correct it. Judgement is very important, so there's a lot to say about it. The judgment is crucial, the independence of the judiciary, the application of the judiciary, if we can't develop a sense of justice in this society, the superiority of the judiciary, the rule of law, the assurance of that, then this society loses its will to live together. Now elected MPs are somehow being held inside. People's will is in jail today. Let's fix this. It doesn't suit you. If we're going to talk about democracy, especially if we're going to talk about advanced democracy, as long as the elected MPs of the nation have no jurisdiction over their rights, shouldn't they come here and follow the laws of innocence? We've given up because they're among us, the mother of the lawmakers inside dies, her father dies; she can't attend her funeral. We said, "Come and see us." I don't know whose anger this law, which cost society as the Mehmet Haberal Law, was, unfortunately, to whom. So you pulled back because the press said his name was Mehmet Haberal Law? It's hard to understand. Bring in the law, let's get it out. Let's get rid of this shadow of shame over this national will of yours. You're not. Someone's angry, someone's angry, someone's giving instructions, and you're setting the agenda according to him, because it's the law that's going to come out. Dear friends, this is no one's -- I mean, it's where we're from -- not a prisoner, not a servant of orders. The MPs are people of character, people of dignity, representatives of this nation. At the point of solving the problems of this nation, it is imperative that they set their own agendas of their own free will. So we're going to vote no because we don't think it's very serious and sincere, since you're going to change the agenda brought by the Justice and Development Party tomorrow. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0069par0050	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. The second statement in favour of the Justice and Development Party's proposal belongs to Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0070par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, of course, since we can't meet as parliamentary party groups today, we've come up with a group of suggestions, as the other groups brought in by the Civil Code 19. Of course, dear friends, first of all, the House has its own agenda, the General Assembly has its own agenda, and while we set this agenda, we bring some of our desires, not just to satisfy our wishes, but to bring matters of the nation's agenda to the agenda of the General Assembly, and to make them a better service to our people by enforcing them from here.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0071par0057	What about the urban transformation?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0072par0058	So it wasn't yesterday, and it's today?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0070par0059	It's what people have problems with, it's what we have problems with. He is our concern as to what these people care about. So, since the people's problems are our problems, we have the right to bring up the agendas that are necessary for these problems to be solved, and we have to make them legal here all together. Dear friends, of course, there have been many issues. Now let's speed up the investment projects. Here we are, leading a number of investment projects to build third bridges for Istanbul, to make major investments, to build roads, to provide Turkey with masterpieces like the Canal Istanbul Project. Of course, there's also a number of legal arrangements to do that, and in that sense, we're taking the proposal to support business-development investment projects in 194 to the front of the agenda, we're taking it to the third place, and so our goal to start today is to take it out and support very serious investment projects as well. In the same way, our people's demands, their troubles. See, there's the International Transporters' Association, and they've visited our group's friends, our commissioners, and the commissioners who belong to other groups. In fact, in that sense, our commissioners had a request, and they said, "We have three international contracts to increase our competitiveness in international road transportation, and we need to get this contract done as soon as possible." What are we doing? We'll take it up with the request of our commission and the request of the International Transporter Association. We're moving up these international contracts so we can have more competition in international road transport. Again, dear friends, of course, today about verbal questions -- we've met with our friends, the group's vice presidents -- our Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ. However, since the Bulgarian Prime Minister and the key figures of the cabinet were largely here, dear friends, they were also required to be present at this meeting, so we were unable to discuss those verbal questions today. Again, in the same way, our Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy had already had his request. Because a few international contracts for our Development Bank had to come out, and we put these international contracts ahead of the agenda, and these international contracts aren't as large as they're overrated. But before that, you've witnessed that we've had, perhaps, 30, 40 international contracts a day, even 50, 60 international contracts. We've got five international contracts here on the agenda, we've got three in the front row, eight international contracts in total, and we're happy if we can finish some of them this week. Our goal is to solve the problems of our people's agenda one by one. Again, let's say it has to do with 4/C, let's say it has something to do with the other stuff, of course, I want to say that when we came to power, people were breathing on the street because of these privatisations, and we've been left out on all the privatisations since 90, 92, maybe it's not going to satisfy our citizens -- but it's going to include 4/C. As of 4/C, we've also made partial corrections as of last year, and we'd also like to make corrections within the scope of the possibilities. Dear friends, again, of course, it's illegal for elected lawmakers to be mentioned... unless, of course, neither we nor any of us would like to have a congressman inside, our hearts wouldn't be able to help. However, it is not possible for us to intervene in the judicial process here under the Constitution of 138.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0073par0066	If only they were MITists, you would make them a law.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0074par0067	Mr. Turkoglu, please...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0070par0068	Second: he didn't come in after these were chosen. Look, it's very important, I want to underline it. These friends of ours didn't go in after they were elected, after they became MPs. These friends of ours were already imprisoned friends, but the party groups were wondering if we could release them by making them MPs. Maybe, maybe not.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0073par0069	How can you be a lawyer? Don't you know what an arrest is?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0074par0070	Mr. Turkoglu, please...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0070par0071	When asked in those days, the head of a party said: "We respect the discretion of the judiciary."
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0073par0072	You're arresting a retired man, like he's gonna black out the evidence.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0074par0073	Mr. Turkoglu, please...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0070par0074	Dear friends, we all have to respect the discretion of the judiciary, and in that sense, it's not our will. We shouldn't be associated with this.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0073par0075	You're arresting a man from abroad for suspicion of escape.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0074par0076	Mr. Turkoglu, please...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0070par0077	And I just want to say this, because it's a little bit of a twist: after being elected, after being elected, there's a sense of being kept inside. So, you've nominated these friends while they're under arrest; well, good; they've been elected, elected, elected, but can there be any way that we or you can intervene in the process of not being released? Oh, no.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0075par0078	They don't know their crimes yet, their crimes!
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0070par0079	Shouldn't you have done the credit when you nominated these friends? Naturally, you had to do it, and when asked, we chose, we nominated, they were elected, and if they were elected, we would consent to whatever the court decides.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0075par0080	Is there any need to keep the innocent man inside?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0070par0081	Again, dear friends, of course, we have a lot on our agenda, and we can make the change of agenda. I mean, there are important issues being discussed in the commissions right now. You'll appreciate that we can't bring them up until the negotiations are over, the negotiations are over, the case is filed and distributed. Many of the proposals and proposals you mentioned are already being discussed on the commission. It could be next week, after the commission's issues are tied to the report, after the distribution is made, after the red bulletin, we, of course, will bring these issues on the agenda of our people again to the General Assembly's agenda, and we will work together here at the point of solving the immediate problems that are important to our people. I salute you all again, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0076par0084	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. The final word against the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal is from İstanbul MP Müslim Sarım. Here you go, Mr. Yellow. Mr. Müslim, is there no Yellow?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0077par0088	Sir, let me do the talking.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0076par0089	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0078par0090	Sir, could it be without a revolution?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0077par0091	What era?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0078par0092	Not without the cycles.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0077par0093	No, sir, or I want a promise.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0079par0094	One second... one second... Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Yellow would like to speak. He's not there.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0080par0096	I'm handing it over, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0079par0097	You've handed it over, over. So we're completing the procedure. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0081par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Lawmakers, AKP is a party that lives in a fantasy world; they've distributed something else, they've set up an agenda for lawmakers, and it says on the back, "Let the 4+4+4 go up until next Tuesday." He says, "It's on the agenda you're showing." Now, folks, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where the law must be debated to the fullest. You, now, have closed down the Parliament without further discussion here. Look, the thing you did the other day at the National Education Commission is you had 150 MPs brought in, you had 100 of them lined up in front of the Commission, and 50 of them -- let the nation know this -- waited at the door, stood guard, prevented the opposition party MPs from coming in. What does that mean? That's extortion, that's violence. How are you going to serve in this Parliament with this violence, and how will you act in law enforcement? Friends, I mean, of course, there's a bunch of press people who are telling the story wrong, and it's totally bullying here. You brought 150 deputies, you put 100 in front of the Commission. Sir, why did you put it there in front of the Commission? Sir, if the opposition party lawmakers interfere with the Commission, they'll stop him, and you've got 50 of them lined up at the door, and you've run us over. Now, the Speaker of Parliament says: "It's not my duty." The AKP group's deputy presidents say: "It's not the job of the Speaker of Parliament." Well, a commissioner filed a report tomorrow without collecting the commission, sent it here. So let's see, I'm not doing the commission meeting... that's the same thing, you've negotiated from 1 to 6 and there's no negotiation after 6.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0082par0105	We did it, we did it, we did it together.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0081par0106	Who did it? He read it, no promises were made to those who asked for it, and then you used violence, and you punched the MPs, and then you forced the MPs out. Now, Recep Erdogan says this law will be passed.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0082par0107	That never happened, Mr. Cameroon, we were there.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0081par0108	Well, friends, now, this country is all ours. I said, "Ya, let's go, let's call those elementary school kids. I mean, let's call the kids who are sixty months, seventy-two months, eighty-four months, ninety-six months. I mean, now, a five-year-old kid's game age, he can't read. If you know... You have a goal, you want to eliminate eight years of mandatory training. Why eight years of mandatory training? Sir, February 28th is a savings. If there is a law, gentlemen, or something good for the country, you must respect it at the time of the revolution. So, you're taking away eight years of uninterrupted training, what do you do?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0083par0111	Did you ask him?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0081par0112	Here, you don't send kids to school after they're nine.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0084par0113	We're not lifting it, we're raising it to 12 years.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0081par0114	Yeah, well, you wouldn't know anything about that. Oh, for God's sake, let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... Now, in your time of power, you have turned Turkey upside down. Look, now, a continuous statement to Syria. Sir, Al-Qaedals from Turkey have been brought in. They say they have brought them from Turkey to Syria and attacked them. In the past, Recep Tayyip Erdogan invited the Hamas leader here - whether he was a messenger or a mashal - then he did not meet with him because he feared America, and Israel. In fact, he was on his way to the airport, and they said he had to go and spend some time at another store so that he wouldn't have to meet him at the airport. Now, he's called, and he's meeting with the PM's office. What's the change? Why were you like that that day, and why are you like that today? Now, friends, look, the Republic of Turkey is a great state. The people of this state's reputation and reputation must act accordingly. Now, yesterday it is, today it is. Yesterday he was afraid of Israel and America, today, e, now, America says: "Attack Syria, therefore, America has given me concessions to attack Syria, and I am acting as I please."
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0085par0117	Get to the point, get to the point.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0081par0118	That's not gonna happen, lawmakers. This state of the Republic of Turkey can't be so small, the state can't be so small. Tomorrow, with Syria... now, there's a war against Syria for every moment, my friends.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0086par0120	To Assad.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0081par0121	Yeah, we'll see. From here to there, he is constantly attacked, sent to Syria, where he is constantly stirred up. What right do you have, my friends? Now, Recep Erdoğan has a goal: I will establish the Sunni Islamic state in Turkey, Syria, Iran, Afghanistan, in many Arab countries.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0087par0123	Not at all.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0088par0124	Where did he say?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0081par0125	Guys, this is right here, so this is all about setting this country on fire. In this country, when you attempt them around here, when there's an attack tomorrow in Syria, the reflection will be on Turkey. That's why I need everyone to come to their senses on this one. Now, friends, you live in this country too. When a war breaks out tomorrow, you have children, and you will be harmed. You are taking advantage of the greatest blessings of this country, you are using the power of the state, you are transferring the property of the state, your property to its allies, so you are taking advantage of the greatest resources in this country. If there's a fight going on in this country tomorrow, you won't find a way out. America won't save you, Israel won't save you, you know that. Now, Recep Erdogan... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Well, now look, lawmakers, I've been here thirty years. This is the first time in 30 years I've seen this coven go through this period of stress, fighting, turning into hostile groups. Why is that? Recep Erdogan wants to establish dictatorship in this country, and look at the laws he has brought, nothing, you... say... for the sake of God: Now, Recep Tayyip Erdogan will instruct someone, commit a crime, and then they will say to him, "Will you allow this to be judged or not?" You have passed this law. What conscience made you pass this law? Have you ever consulted a conscience? A country has judges, prosecutors. A Recep Tayyip Erdogan is reassigning someone, and then these people are going after them, killing their opponents.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0089par0129	Are you in court?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0081par0130	What's more, we don't know who's gonna get killed on the network. Here are men brought from Hamas to Turkey, brought from Al Qaeda, brought from the Muslim Brothers I don't know, brought from Libya. Now, Turkey is full of them. Now, if these people start a massacre tomorrow in Turkey, who's to blame? Here comes a spirit from the authority you gave to Recep Erdogan.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0090par0131	There's a limit to bullshit.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0081par0132	After that, sir, if he doesn't allow it... here, you know, you say: Abdullah Gul, who lives in Chunkaya Hall, is acting very neutrally. Abdullah Gul brought in Abdullah Gul, who controls some of the members he appointed to the State. One was the son of Recep Erdoğan's aunt, who graduated from imam-hatip school.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0091par0133	The Kenan Universe...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0081par0134	I'll tell my master that he also finished a teacher's school, served two years as vice president or vice president of National Education, brought in a member of the State, appointed a member of the Supreme Judge. So, what culture is this...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0092par0135	Is it a shame to be an Imamist?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0081par0136	Friends, with what culture, with what knowledge, will the high court decide for the Turkish nation?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0092par0138	You finished normal high school...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0081par0139	Now, you have to ask Abdullah Gül: Well, is there such a thing... as such a favor in the people you're going to assign to the higher judgment? So, what happens when this person, Recep Erdogan, doesn't allow it? Is he going to say that Mr. Recep Beyin should be granted the permission that Erdoğan did not give him? He can't. I know a friend who's already the Chief Prosecutor. One in the past. He's the one who saved Recep Erdogan from his estate in the apartment. That's when you came to power -1. Well, he's been put into the office undersecretary of the Prime Minister, so, right now, the Chief of State and all the agencies that you've sent over are being shaped accordingly by those 50 members. So regulations are being brought to lose the quality of being a legal state of the Republic of Turkey. Why doesn't this bother you? Look...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0093par0140	Where did they come from? Did he come from Arabia?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0081par0141	Now, Mr. Ahmet, don't speak. Look, we're on the CSI Commission together. Either you ransacked this country.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0093par0142	Speak up, it's documented!
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0081par0143	You've been looted. Look, you've given five ports, you've given them a profit cut, you haven't collected any profits. After that, you put the governors on the board. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, A trillion and 600 billion dollars worth of state property is being condemned, you brought the money, you gave it to the man who runs the port. Isn't it your duty to protect the property of this government, my friends? So what should I tell you? Do I tell you about corruption in TOKI? On the one hand, you have brought to your followers the lost Coal Company, and you have given it to them, and you have taken from them coal without bidding.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0093par0144	Speak up, it's documented!
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0081par0145	There's dirt everywhere, guys. Which one should we talk about? What do you want to talk about in ten minutes?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0093par0146	Get the papers and we'll talk.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0081par0147	In that respect, unfortunately, you, Turkey...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0094par0149	Tell me about the Kenan Universe.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0081par0150	Now, are you defending Recep Tayyip Erdogan?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0095par0151	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0096par0152	The Imam-members are the children of this country. The Imam-Hearts can also rule.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0081par0153	I'm not against imams, but let's do our jobs.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0095par0154	I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0097par0157	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0095par0158	You want roll call. Okay.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0098par0159	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0095par0160	Okay. Let's do the roll call, I promise. Mr. Şandir, Mr. Ayhan, Mr. Yeniçeri, Mr. Akçey, Mr. Torlak, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Dedeoğlu, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Türkoğlu, Mr. Türkkan, Mr. Adan, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Çınar, Mr. Öz, Mr. Halaçoglu, Mr. Oral, Mr. Oral, Mr. Gourkulu. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes the Justice and Development Party Group, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0099par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, of course, I wouldn't want to make it look like I'm getting the job done in these situations. There's a very nice saying about it, there's a saying, we actually have an answer to every word, but first I look at words, and then I look at words, and then I look at someone who says it... there's a very important, very beautiful saying. Dear friends, of course, friends in a dream world. He has eyes, he has ears, he doesn't hear, he doesn't respect what is said, he sees as if he didn't live. So about this friend, like I said, I don't have to mean too much. ▪ Defiance, violence, dictatorship... • All evil belongs to the owner of the word. Yeah, I'm returning it to you literally. Sure, in the meantime, I'd like to make this clear. What's tyranny? What's thugry? Dear friends, the commission process, the ten-day process has been followed by the entire public.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0100par0179	Let go of ten days, let go. Look after the last 7th article.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0099par0180	They've been given a wide range of talking times. Anyone who asks without limitation has been given a speech in 12 hours. Give it to him, Amenna! It's all been done. The negotiations were held for 91 hours and 41 minutes. I've been here for thirty years in the history of parliament -- you say, for God's sake, review the transcripts, review the commission reports -- in what period was it treated so democratically, so broad? And 91 hours and 41 minutes and 6 items, dear friends. That's all the six points have been discussed.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0101par0181	What about the material after the 6th article? There's not a single line of reports.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0099par0182	They'd have seen each other even more. They'd have seen each other even more. What did we do then? And we, our commissioners, are rightly...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0101par0183	We asked for a promise. We said, "No one wants a word." You said, "No one wants a word." You've gone down in history with such a shame.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0099par0184	Shut up a bit, will you? Just listen to me for a second! Quiet, listen up!
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0101par0185	You beat the shit out of him! That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0102par0186	The commission...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0103par0187	Mr. Akar, please...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0104par0188	We put up with you. Despite your harsh words, we have endured.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0105par0189	Mr. Ahmet, you've done an unregistered job in the history of the Republic. Does it look good on Congress?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0103par0190	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0104par0191	What did we do? What did you do when our commissioner friends made a motion? You're up, four times, five times you've invaded the bench.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0105par0192	Mr. Ahmet, what kind of a thing is this?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0104par0193	Which one's the bully? Which one's the bandit? I'll ask you.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0105par0195	Is that even possible?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0104par0196	Again, dear friends, 171 people have spoken on six counts, 171 people...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0105par0197	Mr. President, that's not possible! How do you explain that? That's not a democracy, is it?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0104par0198	...and 124 of it belongs to CHP, the remaining few members of the EC PARTI, MHP and BDP.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0105par0199	Where do you have it? On what date was the law beaten to death seen in the House?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0104par0200	124 people talking, 91 hours and 41 minutes, they're still talking about democratism.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0105par0201	We want a promise. We got kicked in there because we said so. Here's the face of Karaca. Get him out, tell him he didn't throw it away.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0104par0202	While we're doing this, the splits...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0105par0203	Harun Karaca, I want a promise. He kicked me because I said so.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0104par0204	We have received the word of all his fellow students.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0105par0205	Then he apologizes on the phone. We said get out of the council and apologize.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0104par0206	Again, dear friends, when you don't like being a bandit, do you want to invade the General Assembly? Yeah, that's it.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0105par0207	What kind of a thing is that, Mr. Ahmet? Mr. Ahmet, you can't do that!
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0104par0208	When you don't like being a bandit, is the Commission throwing 534 grams of tank into the Presidential Court? Is that what this is, what we do? Who's doing the bandit work, dear friends? Public opinion knows this very well, and we, as an AK PARTY, are not going to give this bandit a bonus, and we are never going to give it a bonus.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0105par0209	Ahmet President, does this look good on you? Do you believe what you're saying?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0104par0210	As much as you consider it your right to block, so do we. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We have a right to block the right to intercept. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0106par0215	Mr. President, he picked on me, sir. He said, "Is he the man who speaks the word?"
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0104par0216	I didn't say Adam.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0106par0217	No, that's what he said.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0107par0218	I'm gonna get the transcripts now.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0106par0219	Sir...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0108par0220	I didn't say Adam.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0107par0221	Mr. Young, I'll have the transcripts brought in. Because I took care of him.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0109par0222	No, sir, he didn't say Adam.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0107par0223	Now, I'll have him brought in right away, I'll look at it, I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0110par0224	Mr. President, I didn't say man.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0111par0225	He picked on me, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0107par0226	Look, I'll get the report and I'll see.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0110par0227	Look at the reports, sir. Look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0107par0228	I've been paying attention, but I'll get the report and I'll see, and then it's okay... In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 2/187 I gave you is the 37th Amendment to Higher Education Staff Act. In accordance with the clause, since it will not be discussed in the commission within 45 days, I demand and demand that it be taken directly into consideration. Yours truly. 27.02.2012 Dr. Reşat Right The bidder is Mr. Reşat MP. Right. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0112par0241	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have made a commitment under Article 37 of the Civil Code on the proposal of the rights of assistant professors working at our universities. I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my words, the hero who was a martyr in Afghanistan wishes God's mercy to all 12 of our soldiers, and I say, "I'm sorry for the loss of our nation." The date 4/11/2011 was organised as the classification of the professors, professors and assistant professors, and professors and professors in Higher Education Law 2547. However, even though assistant professors have been accepted as students, they are not given real autonomy rights, so this group is victimised by the 3600 additional indicators given to other professors, according to the class of Unvans (e) of the additional indicator table (e). Assistant professors working at universities work with 3,600 additional indicators. However, these people have been appointed assistant professors, who have been successful in their Masters and Ph.D. exams, and have not easily received that title. The assistant professors also want to take advantage of the 4,800 additional indicators or close figures that our professors receive as their rights. Even though assistant professors are accepted in their professor class, they are also in the same category as professors and teachers as additional indicators, and are particularly victimised when they retire. However, these people have worked, worked, and raised students for years as assistant professors. The injustices of these people about retirement must be resolved along with this. Congressmans, the law must cease to apply against its essence. Education situations need and need a new arrangement based on their positions. With the law we've prepared, it is intended to address this injustice, an additional indicator of 1/4 degrees to this professional group, a number between 3600-4800 is intended to prevent their victims as soon as possible. The current situation is the right to correct it, as it violates the principle of equity and equality of our Constitution. Members of lawmakers are not only assistant professors at our universities, but all faculty and employees are also victims at some point. The situation of these people must be corrected, and their wages must be supported in real sense. It's only then that he'll be able to contribute to the production, social life of all the areas where he's been working, with RD activities, with the work he's been doing, with all the work he's been doing. It is essential that universities become educational institutions that grow the manpower that our country needs, produce science and technology by doing research, lead social development, work out scientific methods, compete with world universities, which should be considered fundamentally this way. It's only because the university, the people who work, is being cared for and valued. We can't and shouldn't ignore any of the employees. No one has the right to go wrong like I don't care. Now, the law we've brought in is about assistant professors. However, even more comprehensive laws must be brought in. Because our university professors are all victims until they can be studied by their professor, and they expect new laws and rights to be regulated, including pension and some rights to be given to them. With this bill, we aim to correct one wrong, one missing. Of course, the main thing here is the Justice and Development Party Group. From time to time, you say that the opposition, especially, does not offer suggestions, but constantly criticizes them. Come, we have brought you such an important offer, an important offer on our universities. And in this way, if we can get it to come to the agenda, and then make it legal, he says he's done a great deal of damage, and I salute the High Council with my deepest respect.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0113par0253	Thank you. Kütahya MP Mr. Scholar Illum...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0114par0256	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge in favour of a law proposal submitted by Mr. Reshad Hakat, MP of the National Movement Party, demanding that the Civil Code be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda, according to Article 37. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, as you all well know, assistant professors have taken the burden of that university in many universities in Anatolia, in the founding years of universities, and are truly a very important group today that constitutes about two thirds of the faculty. These people, on the one hand, did their academic work, and on the other hand, they did serious services with the administrative duties they took at those universities, but unfortunately, as with other faculty staffs, the assistant professors were not paid financially in return for their services. He's got a lot of problems. One of the most important problems of these problems is the rights of the essence that we intend to satisfy with the law proposal we're talking about today. The other important thing is that they can't apply for a professorship, especially when they're assigned to professors, because they're taking a dam test for another language that doesn't have their own language, and because they don't get enough points from that language. And that's a big problem, but let's just say that people who are going to have academic careers have to cross this language to a certain extent, and considering that their thesis hasn't changed in many years, that's a problem that can't be solved soon, but it's a suggestion that will improve the rights of equity by raising the 3600 additional indicators to 4,200, at least to a monthly improvement. Another important problem was that in June of last year, we opened the way for fellow professors with assistant professors with first degree titles to be able to retire from the fourth degree of the first degree, but unfortunately, in the past year and a half, most of our universities had retired from their assistant professor staff, so they couldn't take advantage of this arrangement because they couldn't be placed in first degree. At least the Minister of Finance needs to do this favor to our universities as soon as possible to get them into first-degree positions and retire. So we need to make sure that these assistant professors, who have become the burden of many problems and have fought seriously under this burden, are improved in terms of their rights. As you all well know, assistant professors at universities are contractal staff members in the faculty group, so especially those assistant professors who appear to be with the presidential candidate who won or did not win the presidency, unfortunately, are not worthy of Jesus (Jesus) nor Musa (Moses), and in some way they will suffer the greatest loss in this election. We believe that the law proposal to improve the rights of this group is a sound offer, and I look forward to your support, and I salute you all again, to support this bill of law, which will improve the rights of these people with 4200 additional indicators between the professors and the professors.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0115par0262	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. I mean, we did it wrong once, why do you confuse me?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0116par0264	Mr. President, what have they agreed to so far? They don't accept anything anyway, so bring what you want.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0115par0265	I mean, I don't have the right to say anything. Under the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." Mr. Ayşe Nurkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Mr. Ahmet Aydın, who is ranked in the 1st ranking position of Justice and Development Party Chairs, will continue the discussion of Mr. Kamer Yün on the amendment of a Article of the Grand Assembly of Turkey and on the Constitutional Commission. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under Disasters, which is ranked in the 2nd place, where we left off from the Ministry, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Kars MP Ahmet Arslan and Mr. Hüseyin Şahin, MP of Bursa, and the Plan and Budget Commission Report for the draft of the draft law on the draft and public tender law on the drafting of several investments and services under the value tax law. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 194 rows. The Manisa MP Sumer Oral is on behalf of the National Movement Party Group who wants to speak on the whole bill. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0117par0286	Mr. President, at the beginning of my speech, I pay my respects to you and your esteemed deputies. To the 12 martyrs we lost in Afghanistan, I pray for mercy from Gabriel, and for their families, and for their relatives, and for our nation. Mr. President, let's look at what the law is intended for, first let's look at it: there's some exemptions in the Law on Proposal, Transport and Health as part of the launch and implementation of some major projects, in financing and in the period of construction, in the Law on Public Contraction, in the Law on Adding Value Taxes, that's the essence of the law. Thus, it is required to speed projects up, to give them speed, to provide certain opportunities and conveniences to ensure that they end at once. I want to make it clear right away that the efforts to bring great projects into the country make us very happy, very happy. Basically, it's a fact that our country needs projects like this. In its recent history, Turkey has completed and launched major projects, such as Alexanderun Iron Steel, ERDEMIR, TIPRAS, Keban, the First Strait Bridge, the Second Strait Bridge. These have contributed seriously to the country's industry, its economy, and they continue to contribute. We haven't seen projects like this prepared and implemented in a long time. In essence, the enrichment of the country's project stocks is of great importance. Every country has a stockpile of projects, and there are projects that need to be prepared, and countries need to focus on them. Therefore, our approach to such purposes is positive, and our view is positive. In addition, the current conjunct of the global economy, especially the financial problems -- even though the legal proposal comes as an offer -- justifys that the government came to the Parliament with such demands, but in general practice, such exceptions and exemptions should be very limited. I'm sorry to say, (x) 194 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. The drill is in the opposite direction. We see that exceptions and exemptions brought into the Public Contraction Act have become quite common. If we take a look at the changes of the Law on Public Contraction Law, which was mentioned ten years ago -- or even nine years ago -- the law that has been passed has been changed directly by 20, indirectly 50 laws, and its application has been constrained or differentiated directly by a decree of 1 or indirectly nine laws. Changes are focused on coverage and exceptions. Generally, the Public Contraction Act should include all public institutions and institutions, while many public institutions and organisations have been either excluded from the scope or have the opportunity to benefit from exceptions. In the basic logic of the Law, the main structure and roof of the Law has been damaged, with no public institution and organization envisioned for exemption, while only exceptional procedures are included. Dear President, the precious MPs, the privileges we've received with the final amendment offer can be listed as... Mr. President, in this department, we may be going into some technical matters, which may be boring, but there's no other way, because the offer we're negotiating is a technical weight. Buying goods and services from partnerships of more than half the capital of the Turkish Republic's State Railways Executive Directorate is excluded from the Public Contraction Act, adding a joke to Article 3 (the 3) on exceptions of the Public Contraction Act 4734. In this way, the Turkish Republic's State Railways will receive without contract from its partnerships, which will be installed or established and have more than half its capital, and will block competition by ignoring companies or companies operating in the same branch. On the other hand, the level of quality and cost in production will be devoid of concerns about marketing in the joint partnerships. Because in the known and uncompetitive environment, the fear of quality and loss will also disappear. The Turkish Republic's State Railways will also lose the opportunity to receive goods and services from the quality and competitive price it will provide in full competition. This, of course, will affect the amount and efficiency of public spending, and will ultimately cause public damage. An arrangement under Article 48 of the same Law is required to be carried out with a service tender under the maximum limit for receiving services under the threshold. In Article 48 of the Law, counseling services are subject to a special judgment, and the basic rule of contracting amongst certain volunteers is to be bought in a tender manner. The period and amount limitation of the tender period and the ads on Article 13 is tied to the basis of the amount of cost to be brought, while these restrictions are removed, thus providing a broader freedom of movement to these tenders. Since the value of the counselling service can lead to very special situations, its control, efficiency, efficiency will cause debates and complaints, and its administrations will also endanger public benefit while putting them in a difficult position. It's better to know these things, too. I felt compelled to tell you this information about which arrangement to vote, too much technique, but there's no other way. In addition, the added value tax was included in our tax system, as it is known, to fight off the record, to record all transactions. That's the main feature of the added value tax, that's what it's about. Therefore, going to exceptions and exemptions in the application of added value tax does not apply to the purpose and structure of the Law. As a matter of fact, in Article 19 of the Law, we find that this matter is highlighted. In this area, the exceptions to the taxpayers -- which are recognised in the area of value tax -- are more in line with the European Union regulations -- are a kind of indirect incentive to build a social-purpose housing and international trade, which is limited to them. In the added value tax system, the door must not be kept open to exceptions and exemptions, other incentives that will not damage the system can and will be much more effective. Mr. President, with your permission, I'd like to point out at this stage that the Public Contraction Act was part of our system right at the beginning of 2002, which was adopted on January 4, 2002. Law deals aim to ensure that transparency, competition, equal treatment, credibility, secrecy, public control, efficient use of resources; these are the main goals of the Law. In addition to adapting to European Union legislation, the law has taken into account the norms of international institutions, such as the World Trade Organization. Under Article 53 of the Law, the Public Contraction Agency, which has the right, administrative and financial autonomy, has been established to carry out the duties given by this Law. So, it's not only right to view it as the Public Contraction Act, it's useful to consider it as a whole with the Public Contraction Agency, not only useful but also necessary. The Public Contraction Agency is only one of the modern, regulatory and murakabe higher institutions that the Turkish economy has won as it enters the 21st century; however, the Banking Editing and Control Board (BDK) Supreme Board of Energy Markets, the Tobacco Editing Board and other institutions. As all of these institutions and boards entered the 20th century, in the early 2000s, Turkey had been the main elements in the administration of change, which led to change, thus becoming a real quality, becoming a stronger structure. There is no doubt that the structures of these institutions to be out of political influence are of extraordinary importance, with professional-based expertise. Governments must take care of these qualities. While these institutions were being created simultaneously during the same period, laws such as the Law on Publicisation, the Law on Debt, the Law on Gas, Telecom Law and the Public Contraction Law, and regulations on budgets, funds, mission damage, other important structural reforms that boost transparency in the state and strengthen public financing. It was not easy for the Turkish economy to reach such institutions. They need to be protected today, not disturbed by their independent structure, not to be torn away from there. The financial rule that came up in the years we left behind, then disappeared, if only today had been included in the system. These are the structures that will counter economic and financial fluctuations in the global economy, which will ensure a resilience in the country's economy. As a matter of fact, if Turkey's influence of the major global economic crisis in 2007 and 2008 was limited to a certain extent, the contribution of the structural arrangement and reforms I had just counted has been enormous. One of the major anchors of the Turkish economy has been the positive monitoring of our relations with the European Union. Today we experience a period of complete recession in this area, no matter what the cause is based on. This painting may be conjunctural, but that's what it is, and it's still pretty thin. In addition, an impression of increasing independence in regulatory and muraqabe institutions, which are part of the European Union's integration, could lead to assessments that we would not particularly like in the external financial circles. As a matter of fact, the European Union progress reports show serious warnings about these issues, which should not be taken lightly. It is especially important to be more careful financially. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to complete the final chapter of my speech as follows. It takes time to complete big projects, and it's not really easy to finish and go into business. For example, the Istanbul-Izmir Highway Project was not yet launched, the project was ready to begin and the project was ready in 2002. Marmaray is a great project that connects the two continents under the sea, and it's been built, and it's been pretty advanced, but in 2002, the project and its funding were ready. When we look back, as I had originally said, we see the important facilities of Turkey, each one, such as Alexander's Iron-Celek, a Keban Dam, a Ereglı Iron-Celic, a TIPRAS, the First and Second Throat Bridges. God bless those who pass the work, those who decide these things, those who design them, those who do their project and those who implement it, the politicians, the statesmen, those who work on every level. Unfortunately, a new one was not placed with them, and they were not placed with projects at the level. In the end, it's easy to sell such large facilities, but it's not as easy to do as it's sold. Mr. President, I'd like to thank you and your esteemed deputies and pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0118par0309	Thank you, Mr. Oral. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Izmir MP Rahmi Küreli of Love. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Türeli, how much your group loves you. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0119par0314	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0120par0316	Why don't you thank the President?
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0119par0317	Thank you. We'll do it again. We'll keep talking, Mr. Aslanoglu. Today, I have made a commitment to express the views of the Republican People's Party Group on the entire burden of the Law and Law Offering to Change the Law and Public Relations Act on the Making of Some Investments and Services in the Business Model Framework. As I begin my speech, I salute your grand delegation. First, on Sunday (March 18th) we celebrated the 97th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale to our entire nation, who wrote a heroic epic in Çanakkale ninety-seven years ago and sacrificed their lives and blood in order to defend the country, bow to the glorious memory of our martyrs, to our soldiers who were killed in the plane and helicopter accidents in Afghanistan. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we see that a recent issue of legislative activities has become increasingly high, which is that regulations concerning public administration and large areas of society should be made by law rather than by a government bill. However, it is very difficult for the state to be asked by law instead of the government's bill, especially when it is made a habit by the AKP governments, especially when it concerns the public administration and the state's assets and revenues, which lead to a decrease in its revenues and obligations. This, on the one hand, leads to the inability of the public institutions and institutions involved in the preparation of the issue that is being set up with the proposal of the law, and the lack of proper discussion of the opinions of the relevant institutions and institutions in this framework, has led to the lack of understanding of the economic and financial impacts of the arrangements brought in. However, the regulatory authority analysis under Article 14 of the Law on Financial Management and Control 5018 could have been much more evident in the relevant budget of the year and the possible economic and financial impacts on the overall economy. Another problem with law technique is that non-relationship arrangements are made in one law and that public opinion is insisted on a choice known as the law. I think it would be more appropriate to make these changes in its own law, especially with amendments to the Law on Public Contraction Numbers 4734, the 5th and 6th Articles. Meanwhile, statements made to the public during and during the 2012 Central Management Budget talks, said by ministers on economics that a new incentive system is being studied to cover and work more effectively. However, the immediate introduction of the new incentive law to the TBMM agenda is a non-integrated approach, and it would be more appropriate to address the issue as part of the new incentive system. Dear lawmakers, as you know, the incentive system can be done using different tools and mechanisms on different issues, the VAT exception is only one of them, but as I just said, when we look at AKP's recent economic management, one of the things we see is that a non-unital approach is dominated by public administration. Another example of this, as you know, is the regulation of the election process, which was issued in April, legalized in May, and authorising the government to issue a decree for six months. With this, the government has issued 35 decrees in accordance with the law and has practically upset public administration, and has used the authority law, the six-month term given to it until the very last moment. Despite the opening of parliament and its work -- it was ending on November 3rd -- until November 2nd, many arrangements were made, and eventually, the public staff system was kind of redesigned. There's no way to accept them. These have made it clear that the AKP government is not at all successful in its most boasted economic field, that it lacks integrity, that it does not have an approach, a perspective, that sees things in mutual relations. As a matter of fact, we have explained this in detail in the opposition we put as the Republican People's Party in the central management budget in 2012, and I wish to be read back by lawmakers. Mr. Secretary, under the law proposal, the rental model number 3359 with the do-and-do model has been given the exception of VAT. First of all, I have to point out that Level Value Tax Act 3065 has a rationale that will reach its goal, in the case that exceptions and exemptions are as minimal as possible. In this framework, the system's effectiveness is severely reduced by the exceptions presented with this proposal. On the other hand, as a result of the VAT exception brought with the relevant law proposal, VAT collection will be reduced in the short term, causing budget revenues to decrease. As a result, the budget deficit envisioned in the central management budget in 2012 will exceed forecasts and the public will need additional debt. In addition, given the time value of money, the cost of this loss will increase year-on-year. In this context, financial impacts on the central management budget were expected to be presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as a projection. However, with the exception of the VAT, the amount of tax loss will be born, even though our group has insisted on it during the subcommittee and top commission meetings, it has not been introduced. This makes it clear that there is no serious work done by the Finance Ministry regarding the amount of tax loss. Of course, when we take this situation into a wider frame, we also come to another conclusion: unfortunately, the Ninth Development Plan for Justice and Development Party governments, the Midterm Program, the 2012 budget, the 2012 Program, that doesn't mean anything. These have just been passed; you know, dear friends, there's a budget that's been implemented as of January 1, and there are regulations, and with those arrangements, we've established what to do over the next three years, in 2012-2014. So they're all created by the government, they're already involved in public institutions, the Ministry of Development, the Department of Treasury, the Ministry of Finance, they're all involved in this process. There's no way to understand that there's some unorganized, unorganized, unorganized structures behind the law, like this, only two and a half or three months ago. Look, the same thing came up in the 4+4+4 bill. Dear friends, when you look at the Ninth Development Plan -- which includes the 2007-2013 years, the AKP governments were released on time -- there is no ruling on this issue. On October 13th, there are no provisions in the Moderate Future Program. I mean, shouldn't they be around here? It's not in the 2012 Program either. You know, there are detailed measures in the 2012 Program. We're taking precautions, there's no such thing. It's not in the budget, and there's no money in it. Then, all of a sudden, we're looking at a bill of law or government. These are the ones who are devoid of all doubt and indecencies. To rule the government, to rule the country, whether it's serious or not, dear friends. I also think it's important for the public administration to comply with the necessary rules and democratic frameworks. On the other hand, loan rates -- if we continue -- can vary depending on a number of factors. The VAT exception may not reduce debt costs to the expected extent as intended, as well as the VAT exception should be considered to be required by investors for other service areas. Dear friends, this means that this area is expanding. It's about the exception of VAT, it's about incentives, and it's also about doing this law-enforcement proposal. Another concern is that no clear and adequate information has been submitted to the commission as to the extent to which this VAT exception would affect the level of rent in the do-and-do model under Article 3359 under the First Law of Health Services. And I've just mentioned that all the information that comes in, both the VAT exception and the structure-enforcement environment that I'm going to talk about in a little while, all of which reveal the economic, financial framework of what they're doing to the government, what they're costing the government, unfortunately, doesn't show up. Another concern is that it is appropriate to be implemented in continuous matter instead of temporary matter, since the first article of the relevant law proposal is required to be implemented until 31/12/2023. Because if you're organizing a material that's going to have this much conviction by 2023, it's against our legal proposal and the habits of bureaucracy, and it's against its traditions. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as we noted in the Republican People's Party's Central Management Budget Bill of 2012 counter-voice, increasingly public professional cooperation models in many public service areas have led to the long-term expansion of obligations as conditional obligations. In the economic crises of November 2000 and February 2001, the rise in the conditional obligations we face has led to serious uncertainty over the economy and has increased risks. In addition to these uncertainties, conditions are causing additional financial burdens to arise in the preparation of the Central Future Financial Plan and the central management budget in terms of debt management and public financing. The amendment brought to Law 3996 in 2008 made it possible for public investments to be made into private sectors and to be paid in installments under the annual budget. It's kind of a way of borrowing. This practice makes public debt seem lower than it really is. On the other hand, it means that public investment spending is out of budget. As this area expands, public investment spending is dwindling. As a result, public fixed capital investments were reduced from 4.9 per cent to 4.3 per cent in 2002, to 4.3 per cent in 2010. Dear friends, it is normal, of course, for private sectors to enter into investments for the development of a country, not against the public, we want that, but it's essential that basic public infrastructure investments, basic services, energy transport is made by the public in all the countries of the world. The private sector is mainly responsible for focusing on and investing in sectors such as agriculture, such as agriculture, such as industry, which we call outside trade in economic literature. The public sector is particularly involved in infrastructure investments and investments in this area also stimulates private sector investments within the economy and is rapidly expanding the country's stockpile of capital. But recently, the public has not been doing enough to invest in infrastructure and is trying to meet this gap, by activating the private sector, with a public-private partnership -- which has different models -- do-work-develop, do-work, do-do-serala -- to meet this gap. I think it's important, and I think it's necessary to raise public investments to a level of 4.9 per cent in 2002 and then to higher levels. With this law proposal, there is an opportunity for Treasury guarantees for construction-business-regional projects that reach $30 billion. Dear friends, I also took part in the Plan and Budget subcommittee, and I have to say in the Plan and Budget Commission that we have not received a healthy response, even though we have repeatedly asked, what are the numbers of these do-work-development projects during the lower commission talks and during the top commission talks? Which means there's actually a very serious opening in this area. So the fact that the state, the public, the government, doesn't know the amount of investments made in this area, also points to a major weakness. With this law proposal -- and I've just said -- there's an opportunity for treasure guarantees for the 30 billion-dollar do-and-go projects. This poses a serious financial risk on the Turkish financial system. It has been expressed by authorities that investments will increase in the coming period under the do-and-run model. In such a case, the risk of the treasure will rise because of the fact that the public debt can also be increased. As interest rates can rise due to the risk of the treasure, international credit rating agencies may also raise Turkey's credit rating. And I want to make this especially clear because, you know, in the government, the issue of grade improvements is actually one of the things that the ministers in charge of the economy are proud of. It is clear that a weakness from this point of view will significantly increase the burden of debt in Turkey's economy. The amendment aims to reduce the financial burden that will be paid by the company in charge and thus reduce debt costs by shortening the return time of investments to the public. ▪ Is there any work done by our relevant public institutions and organisations? (As I have just expressed, no response was received by our Group in the Plan and Budget Commission, despite the insistence.) Mr. President, the value of the lawmakers is extended to the extent of administrations with the 2nd article of the proposal, which have the capacity to pay for investments under the do-and-run model, in projects that are possible to be paid for by those who benefit from management or service. As of service and organisation, the risks that such enlargement may lead to will clearly create serious uncertainty over public debt projections. On the other hand, in the context of public-special cooperation practices around the world, treasure guarantees are exceptional instruments. Because one of the things that is intended by the public-special cooperation model is the presence of loan providers, and the presence of surveillance and control over projects. Because loaners will be very interested in the project so that they will have no problem getting the loan back. However, if the treasure guarantee is guaranteed, the guarantee of treasure will be established if the project is seized by the administration -- which can withstand very different reasons for the project company's bankruptcy as well. Therefore, the creditors will have no concern about collecting the debts they've given, and the relevant project will become a project based on project financing, which is the core of the public-private co-operation, which is actually a debt of treasure. Dear lawmakers, an important clause of the law proposal that appears to be problematic is the fourth article. Article 4 of the proposal adds a temporary clause to Law 3996. According to this, the provisions for taking over foreign financing loans brought in Article 3 of the proposal will also be applied for projects signed by the application agreement but not concluded by financing. However, it should be considered that this could bring up claims of non-competitiveness for the contract-signed construction-processing projects. On the other hand, the price of a high-priced loan guaranteed by the Turkish Republic's treasury will be transferred to the contractor of a project whose tender has been completed without asking for anything in return. In this scope, I believe it is of great importance that companies who will benefit from the provision of this clause should be announced to our Supreme Assembly by those who have proposed the law, and by those who have discussed it in the TBMM. Because there's a lot of serious claims that this substance was issued for certain companies. I think it's the government's job to make these allegations clear. I'm going to make one last point to save time and finish my speech. And that, my dear friends, is the final point of the general proposal of the law: that the public-private co-operation field needs to be given a framework, the need to collect fragmented and disorganized legislation, as well as the size of the public resource assigned to this area, should be fully activated. In this framework, given the prevalence and volume of the public-private cooperative model, it would be appropriate for the Court to subject the implementation of the public-private cooperative model to performance control and submit a report each year to the Plan and Budget Commission. In addition, it is important that the Turkish Grand National Assembly Plan and Budget Commission adopt legislation on the information of the government, not less than once a year, with a special agenda meeting. In this framework, it would be appropriate to arrange the matter in the matter of the law proposal. This is where my speech ends, and I pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0121par0351	Thank you, Mr. Türeli. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Ahmet Arslan of Kars.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0122par0354	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with the utmost respect that I have made a pledge on behalf of our group. I have taken a pledge on the Law on Adding Value Taxes, on the laws of some investments to be made with a do-and-do model or a do-and-do model, and on the legal proposal for amendments to the Public Contraction Act. In general, I'm going to make a summary of what's what and what's what, and then I'm going to present details of the law. The do-and-do model is one of the most widely used models of the public-special cooperation project. Another model is the do-orala-reveret model, which is used in these applications by the Ministry of Health. This model, which was legalised in our country in 1994, began to be used as an alternative to self-source investments in European countries from the beginning of the 1980s, especially in the last decade, and has also been widely used in European countries as well as in Latin America and Far East countries. In Japan, the University of Tokyo and the Philippines opened research departments for public-private co-operation projects. The number and financial size of projects that are now being used by the model is increasing considerably. Many countries have gone to organise the implementation of this model in both the public and financial sectors, established separate units for public-private co-operation projects, made legal arrangements to repair the blockages of the model. That's what we're doing today, and that's what we want to do. International conferences, panels are being organised in order to share the other country's applications, experience, to ensure that the model operates effectively in some countries, and they contribute to the model by participating in the public sector, private sector and financial sector representatives, three key players in the model. In particular in recent years, the Ministry of Transport, Energy and Environment in the Republic of Turkey has been widely used by the Ministry of Water, and the Ministry of Health is added to it. So before I became a 24th-century MP, I took part in this model in the relevant departments of the Transport Ministry, which used this model widely, and I find it useful to say that, especially in the world, many countries who want to implement this model come from Turkey, take information from Turkey, or exchange information with experts on this subject in Turkey, and now have become the world's dominant model, the Turkish model. In parallel with the increasing importance of public-special cooperation projects over the past two years, the need for funding to provide projects has increased significantly, forcing private sector companies and the public to look for new models. In European countries, the financial crisis has also caused a serious recession in credit markets. We see that all countries in the global dimension are revisiting the risk sharing between the public and the private sector in order to pave the way for this model, and are providing significant guarantees to the creditors in order to ensure high-regular financing and to bring investments to life. Many countries are learning by applying these projects. We can happily say that Turkey has been implementing this for years and is a model country. The main focus of all efforts to address the narrowdowns of public-private co-operation projects and ensure the effective functioning of the model is the public property of all investments, done-in-work or do-or-revrets and so on. This is a very important thing. Whoever does it, it's public property. The do-and-run model is projects that boost public investment stocks, contribute substantially to the development of social development and infrastructure investments, where high-cost, advanced technology projects are implemented, private sector mobileisation and projects are a source of creativity, and in many areas, including employment. The most common use of the model in our country over the past 15 years is airports, ports and marinas. With the implementation of this model, nearly $2 billion has been invested in airports and marinas so far. The entire amount has been financed by the private sector, and again, both airports and marinas have had projects like this for a year and a half to two years. However, it takes about four-and-a-half years on highways, bridges, and tunnels. And again, the average operating time in airports corresponds to a ten-year period of rentals. The passenger guarantees provided for the do-and-run projects provided a significant revenue stream to the state. The amount guaranteed is divided between the public and the private sector. In particular, it's expressed here that it brings an additional burden to the guaranteed treasure provided by the orators. But with your assurances, you're expressing your confidence in your projects. This brings up the creditability of the project, but it brings up something else, and you get a cut of the number above the guarantee. To date, our country has received a share of guaranteed revenues of about 500 million dollars after it has dropped the money that these projects have guaranteed. As a result of the guarantee, not the damage to the treasure, but the additional $500 million, and about 25,000 people were given direct employment. In particular, the cost of operating projects has been substantially savings, as the private sector instead of the public operates during business periods. Again, due to the operating of such facilities and the end of the state-of-the-art regeneration of the facility, it is also the responsibility of the private sector, and again, projects are controlled by public institutions during the investment period and the implementation of international standards in these projects. The country's prosperity and the most efficient financing of investments, which are inextricable tools of economic development, is the restructuring of private sector financing, which constitutes the most important straits for today, especially in terms of the risk sharing between the public and private sector, the model and the country's future. It must not be forgotten that strong public-private cooperation projects of countries are based on strong legal legislation. That's what we want to do. I find it helpful to emphasize a few things. So far, especially when you put the airport, the yacht port, the highways, the bridges and tunnels on top of each other, we're doing about $9 billion in construction-business-regulation projects with a special sector of business, and again, with these types of businesses that have been run with a do-and-do model and then transferred to the public, our country has made about $7 billion in revenues. In particular, it was discussed that the guarantees should be delivered to the treasure. I just gave an example. There is no guarantees of any kind of cargo coming into the treasury, but you're increasing the creditability and efficiency of your project. What project? When the project is being done, your property is the projects that you rented as your property when the operating period is over. And again, especially in Article 3 of the article 3 of the article, it's a serious cost to take credit, and it's a charge of interest, which means that Turkey's grade should be reduced by credit rating agencies. Let's stress this in particular: No construction-development project has ever been half-designed and credited, but when it doesn't work unless it's in their contract, you make sure that the public will take over the property and that the loan will be taken over by the owner until then, you increase the creditability of the project, shorten the operating time of the project, and you get the public to make a public income out of it as soon as possible. It's not a charge of interest, but on the contrary, it's a much better way to do your do-and-do projects. Another expression was used to guarantee the treasure. There is no guarantee of treasure in any of these projects, but if the project remains incomplete, taking over the property in your name, taking over the loan that was used to take over until that day, and taking over the loan from that day forward, if the terms of the loan are right, is on your side. I'd like to stress that in particular. Let me make one more thing clear. That's what's in today's legislation. If such a problem occurs in the general budgetary institutions, the project will be taken over and the treasure will take over the loan. However, due to the fact that the State Water Affairs Directorate has become a private budgetary organisation, loan companies demand that the treasure take over because of the lack of income of these institutions, and that means increased creditability. Thus, it is correcting a new set of legislations in parallel with the new regulations. Until today, it is not the right expression to say. Again, transport and health care are all done by public hands. That's true, the goal in both is to deliver and provide health care needs to the public, but you can do it with models like you can do with the general budget, and this is not a very common model in the world, and I want to emphasize this, too. Again, there was a statement in Article 2 in particular about taking over guarantees. Here, under the roof of the Grand Assembly, an arrangement has been made in the Administrator's Law, and an arrangement has been placed in place. There were similar restrictions on the contribution, but there were no guarantees. And it's not in the current law for general budget agencies. Again, because of the new positions of the Highways and the DSI, it is useful to stress this. In particular, what does it mean to bring an exception to the value added tax in article 1? Friends, I'd like to present this in a few words. When you do projects like this, your project costs money. You build a hospital, you build a bridge, you build a tunnel, you build a marina; the cost of the project is 1 unit. You get this 1 unit project built by the contractor, and then you get it by running a contractor after the production period, and then you get this facility. When you put the added value tax burden on this, your project is the same, but you're providing contractors with a new financing obligation, and it adds to the cost of the financing, whether you want it or not.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0123par0372	Remove the city halls, then.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0122par0373	A business that is 15 years old is going up to 20 years, and it's especially useful to stress something: as time goes on, loan companies increase the number of risk levels because they can't see the course in the world, and the credit rating, because of the number of risk levels, comes at a higher cost of financing. You did the job as a contractor, and that predicted risk came true. If the foreseeable risk occurs -- you've already made your offer -- you're taking this money from the government, and if the risk doesn't happen, it's in the contractor's pocket. Friends, this arrangement prevents the public from paying the price for a risk that does not happen, just as contractors find easier funding. I'd like to stress that in particular. Again, current projects envision reduction of the operating period or rent price that corresponds to VAT, if the contractor asks for it. Each of these projects has a statement in its contract that if the public wants it, it will give a certain amount of work increase and give it time in return for the increase. As you can give more time with the increase of work, you can also reduce the VAT with the loss of work, or you can make such an arrangement with the loss of rent. Both the law itself and the contracts -- the current contracts -- respond to them greatly. Again, in Article 4 in particular, it has been said that the contractors benefit from the use of the treasury guarantee regarding the credit load of current jobs. Again, it's out of the question, because we've already stated in our contract, in our condition that we will take responsibility for this as the Republic of Turkey. The only difference we make is not the administration itself -- not the budgetary administration itself -- but the minister's request is to be given this responsibility by the Council of Ministers by the minister's proposal, which is responsible for the treasure. Article 5 is the exception of VAT in the transactions and purchases of goods and services with the State Railways to be associated with. There is an exception to the purchase of goods and services of public institutions, which are up to $6,629,000 in the current arrangement. However, in parallel with the recent development of the Turkish Republic's State Railways, they have been producing services that have cost a great deal of goods and services in recent years, because they are building locomotives, because they are building railway sets. Today a train set costs $10 million. If you want to buy a train set from your joint partnership, you can't get it completely, you have to take it piece by piece. And when you take the piece, the Public Contraction Act does not accept that similar purchases be taken one after the other, but it does not agree to be taken in pieces. So you can't buy from your own partnership, you're giving it to someone else. Someone else is putting a profit on him, and he's putting you in charge of your joint partnerships. The exception that we're making is that he can buy directly from a 99.94 per cent partner of the State Railways or from a joint partnership that he owns; I'd like to stress that in particular. There's a 6th article. The 6th article specifically envisions the exchange of the current number for purchase among those willing to buy counseling. Let me put it in two sentences: the current number is 172.927 liras. The 48th article refers to this, and you can use the service method to provide your underlying counselling services. What that means is, you go into your contract, everybody comes in, everybody bids. You give the tender to the cheapest of everyone's financial proposals who's qualified. When they buy a consulting service that is over 172,000 liras, you get the bidders' files first, you set the highest points in them, then you get them their offers for the financial and project, you make an assessment again, and you give them to the appropriate, not to the cheapest. About six months. However, when a project is decided on in our country, the project is no longer required to continue for months, to be nationalized, pre-educated, pre-physical, and the project is asked to begin within a few months. Why? The reason is, you don't have the resources, the citizen's waiting. If you've decided to do a project to present it to a citizen, you need to do it immediately. All we're doing is we're bringing in an arrangement that will be able to make a much faster decision and buy the services by raising the cost of buying counseling to four times that of $691,708. And if the project is very important, if it's qualified, if there's a need for it to be done among certain eager people, it's already in the institutions, and I want to emphasize that. So as a tired friend of yours from the inside out, I'm sure all arrangements are good for our country, for our country. I'm making the offer a law to our country, to our people, to wish them good luck, to give them respect.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0124par0382	Thank you, Mr. lion. In the name of the individuals, Mr. Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0125par0386	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself over the entire Law Proposal of 194 rows. I salute the General Assembly. In 2008 and 2011, there have been extensive changes in the rules of the building-business-instruction. With these changes, the preparation and approval process of projects had been made attractive, documenting qualified projects, preparing them and providing them, and they were said to be intended to do so. But during the meeting of both changes in the General Assembly, there have been predictions that some of the problems that I personally expressed could happen in the future, unfortunately today as well. Now, once again, at this point, we have confirmed that the speakers of the National Party of Action are correct. The proposal we are meeting today has similar problems, and we can already predict that some problems will occur in the years ahead and will bring heavy burdens to the budget of our nation and our state, and heavy economic responsibilities. An arrangement that carries such risks on behalf of the state budget should have been put aside, not as a draft, but as a government bill, as well, by removing the offer from the proposal, as well as the proposal practices that it has recently made a habit of. Of course, in this case, we see that the bidders do not get enough views from the relevant institutions and institutions, from the public agencies, and they do not reflect on that offer. When we look at the Development Ministry's 2012 Year Programme as it is called in the programmes prepared by the State Planning Agency, we see that important statements are also involved. It says there that the failure to prepare qualified feasibility studies in public-special co-operation areas, the comparisonal analysis of the public-special co-operation alternative, leads to a lack of institutional capacity in investors institutions and other institutions in the system, preventing regular monitoring of projects, and the absence of some monitoring and evaluation systems from reporting is a basic problem. Now, we see the best example of this on the third Bosphorus Bridge, which has been canceled twice in the last few days. In this project, the State Planning Agency's views again, especially the route, and immediately after that, some objections were ignored at the High Planning Board, and the final tender was cancelled because the private sector could find no funding of this magnitude. Now, the government puts its ear to all such criticisms and continues to insist on it. As a result, because of the waste of both time and bureaucracy, this project is being prepared to tender three times today. Economic officials also ignore some facts about the need for private sector financing, valued lawmakers. Once we look at this year, the amount of debt the private sector will pay is $63.2 billion, according to data that the president of the Central Bank has already explained himself. On the other hand, the predictions of very different economic institutions, international institutions, say: "You will have difficulty finding resources." This is also an important prediction. Because of their own debt crises, the European banks will either have to cut their loans or move them to other areas or increase their loan interest. So some of the construction-enforcement projects that are going to happen in our country are going to be at a higher cost than they should be. That's why, from the beginning, the AKP governments have failed to produce both inclusive and reliable policy within the scope of public-private cooperation during the past process. These projects, the do-and-do projects, of course, have some advantages, and that's what the power speakers have expressed, but they also have significant disadvantages. Perhaps most important of all is the issue of political and economic stability in the country, which goes parallel with stability. If it's a risk of economic depression, the country's economy, then these projects will be more expensive in terms of cost. Now, there are problems with the monitoring of this system. Both the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Court have to monitor performance developments in this area as part of the mission, and must ensure that the necessary measures are taken. Another arrangement envisioned by the proposal is the expansion and removal of treasury guarantees within the framework of the do-and-run projects. Now, we're dealing with a big risk here, too. The risk that arises is to hold on to the back of the citizen again. For example, the transfer of the Metropolitan Municipality's subway projects to the Ministry is one of the most important examples that are not economically profitable. Dear lawmakers, the offer has turned into a mini-bag of law. We say it all the time, and we criticize it here on these platforms, the government's practices of power. And that offer is still in the form of a bag of law. From there, a frame of law was attempted to change different laws, and eventually brought before us. For example, a change is being made in Public Contraction Law 4734. If a change was to be made in this Law, if some exceptions were to be made -- as with the exception of VAT -- the Law, the Law of Public Contraction, would have to go to it and make these changes in person.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0126par0396	Dear God, may I have your attention for a moment? I'll give you an extension. I submit to your votes that the General Assembly will be extended until the end of the speech of Mr. Hajjip. Those who don't agree... Sustained. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0127par0400	Sir, Article 66 of the Public Contraction Act brings this to you under a law. From 2002 to today, according to the 66th article in the Public Contraction Act, according to its compliance, 18 times have been changed, 22 different arrangements have been made, and the Public Retribution Law is now requested to be changed for the 23rd time. So the counselling services here are being increased, removed from the scope, and this law is being brought from the first purpose of extraction to a very different point, as it were. Precious lawmakers, in the 2011 Investment Programme, the total amount of projects envisioned by a partial or entirely foreign project financing loan is 73 billion dollars, and 75 projects are mentioned here. On the other hand, when this offer comes in, the government officials are talking about 76 projects worth 45 billion -- discussed by the Deputy Prime Minister himself -- in the first place in this Commission. So the numbers are flying through the air in a number of projects, in writing documents, in the documents prepared by the government itself, and the number of projects is different, but other figures have come together by government officials; there's a number abundance and numbers that don't match. So here we have to share with the public how many projects and how much they cost. Now, our suspicion, especially in the third quarter of 2011, that the external debt of the private sector has reached 204 billion dollars, that when faced with a possible economic problem, the debt will be loaded into the treasure, and therefore this will increase in business-enforcement projects. Unfortunately, in this proposal, both in the subcommittee and in the Commission itself, the lack of numbers during the talks and the unsatisfying of the members of the Commission and the Assembly General Assembly, we all have doubts in our minds. They have not explained how the loss of VAT revenues will be closed, as they call the VAT exception to the benefit of our nation.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0128par0406	I'll give you an extension now. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0127par0408	Thank you. The advantage of being the last speaker, Mr. President. With this offer, I'd like to finish my vows by giving an example to those who say that the do-and-do projects will get easier and faster. At the point of the implementation of the long-awaited port projects of Izmir, these proposals now repeat before you once again that the government's authorities will have no excuses if they become lawless, and if this offer becomes legal, I hope that it brings good to our country. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-20sit03spe0129par0414	[[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. According to the decision taken, it is Wednesday (March 21st 2012) at 14 p.m. to discuss the legislation and proposals and the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
