tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 59th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during that time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. Before we call the minister, lawmakers, if we can ease the noise in the General Assembly, three of our dear congressman friends have prepared, they will speak. I'd really appreciate it if you'd take your conversations outside so we could listen to them in silence, take advantage of them. There's a really big hum. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Izwar, who wants to talk about schools that have been shut down due to transport training. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0002par0017	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. However, I would like to express my regret to Mr. Minister of National Education, who has not used his right to answer such an important matter -- and I hope that he will come at the beginning of the session in a little while -- although he didn't care about it. The official records, the data that I'm about to share with you will show you how important this matter is. Dear MPs, as it is known, the transport primary education practice is carried out as part of the Transport Elementary Rule, which was published on April 15, 2000 and was published in the Official Gazette 24021. One of the most important provisions of this regulation is the obligation to complete at least 60 of the students, up to the third grade, in Article 9 (c) and (d), which are in the 9th grade. If you have 59 students in one school, you are closed because you do not provide the number of 60, the number of regulations, and students are taken to another transport center. So we've made a lot of motions to the Ministry of National Education that since the past period, if these regulations were to be changed, for example, if 60 borders were to be reduced to 30, many schools across Turkey were to be removed from transport and to provide education and teaching at their own location, but unfortunately, we haven't received a positive response from the Ministry. Now, I'd like to share with you the response to our latest motion from Mr. Ministry: In a total of eighty-six hundred and ninety-six1 schools have been cancelled from teaching for underprivileged students across Turkey, and students in these schools have moved to other places. Now, I would like to share with you this data: Mr. Secretary boasted during this year's budget talks, saying that since 2003, 32,030 (such as 32,030/2011) has been held by the AK PARTI administrations in total 169,325 classes, including our philanthropic citizens. Now, I'm asking you: except for those in middle school, the total of 15,961 schools are from the average 10 schools, which is almost more than the school that this power has opened in ten years, except in middle school. Now, I find it hard to understand why the Minister insists on this matter. So I'd like to share the answer to this proposal with you, so if you reduce 60 to 30, 10 to 5, our country will benefit from it. The answer is, valued lawmakers: the schools in the municipalities with enough students are intended to be kept open. As the number of students involved in the transport will be moved to 30, the schools in these settlements will be shut down and the school buildings will be thrown out. Thus, there is no study carried out by the Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I regret to inform you that the Minister did not even understand the question in this motion, leaving my self-respect aside. The answer is that he understood it the other way around. I demand that he alert his bureaucrats. In the event the number 60 is reduced to 30, perhaps at least 10,000 of these closed-down schools will be reinstated. There's something else that's interesting. If we look at the number of schools closed by 801, the most closed school is in Balıkesir, with the number of 589. The second is 572 schools, Samsun third is 549 schools, Kütahya, and the fourth is 527 schools. In the provinces of Hakkari, Bitlis, Van, Batman, Tunceli, Şırnak are the eastern and southeast provinces. The district, which, unfortunately, has been closed most schools throughout Turkey, has been the province of Kütahya, which is my constituency. This is the summary of the issue that has been on the agenda for a day or two, and why 25,000 men have disappeared from Judah. If you shut down the schools, send students and parents to other schools, the men will disappear. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. Light. The second statement outside the agenda belongs to Mr. Hasan Akgöl, the Hatay MP who wants to talk about the negative effects of the rains in Hatay province and the power cuts in the city. Here you are, Mr. Akgöl.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0004par0031	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the rains that have been going on since the beginning of January have caused thousands of crop fields to be flooded in Hatay. Power outages have made life unbearable. I have taken an off-the-topic commitment to express my views on this matter. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, of course, the rains above seasonal norms can cause trouble in the areas where they fall. Perhaps the most desperate of human beings are the moments of natural disaster. Such disasters can happen at any moment, anytime, anywhere. What matters and what needs to be done is to make sure that citizens are at least affected by this situation, and to do what is necessary as a government in order to pay for the harm done by post-fact citizens. In such disasters, it is important to be able to quickly intervene in troubled areas and address the problems of citizens. Hatay's flood since mid-January has paralyzed the farmer in Hatay. In Hatay, thousands of manufacturers watched helplessly for the sweat of their foreheads to be flooded. Thousands of acres of October have been flooded in the districts of Hatay, Antioch, Kurıkhan, Reyhanlı, Altınözü and Kumlu. The Amik Plain is beginning to look like a swamp. Since not only the flooded areas, but the fields of crops where the water is not flooded cannot be maintained, the rains have reached the point of death because the rains are too high. Dear friends, Hatay farmers can't do anything but watch this flood in the face of desperation. I'm one of the best people to know about it because I'm a local man and a farmer. One of the reasons why the flood was so great is that Syria opened the dam doors recklessly. Well, don't they ask him if it's the first time Syria's opened the dam doors? Is this the first time he's carried the Rebel River? Of course, in previous years, this land has faced the reality of extreme rain. When Syria and I were brothers yesterday, our relations with Syria were completely corrupted as a result of the policies established by the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister today. As a result, Syria opened the dam doors uncontrollably without thinking, without thinking. This has caused the flood to get bigger. The Prime Minister and the Secretary of State are responsible. Hatay is one of the most common areas of cotton, wheat, corn production and olivery with fertile farmland. In 2011, due to high input costs, the farmer was unable to pay off his credits, energy money, energy debt; the cotton manufacturer is very miserable. While all European countries support farmers, producers in our country remain vulnerable to increased imports. The farmer hasn't been paid for his sweat in years. The flood on top of this affected Hatay and the farmers greatly. Without the search for conditions in Law 2090, the farmer's debts to the producer, banks, agricultural loan co-ops, TEDAS must be immediately postponed and compensated for his losses. The government must quickly treat the victim's wound with salve, regardless of agricultural insurance and CKS documents. Dear MPs, Hatay Airport has been closed to flights for three days. According to the governor's statement, the situation will continue until February 6th. Why? The airport is like an artificial lake now. The flood affected it, too, the airport's underwater. I think it's one of the main reasons why he was miselected when he was being made. Guys, the farmer's a victim. I beg of you to take care of the Hatay farmer here without making a ruling-Muslim distinction. I salute you with these thoughts and feelings. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0005par0044	Thank you, Mr. Akgöl. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Sivas MP Mesude Nursuna Memekcan, who asked for a comment on the activities of the Turkish Delegation, which joined the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Here you go, Mr. Memecan.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0006par0049	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book oath to inform the General Assembly on the activities of our Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly Delegation in Strasbourg last week at the 2012 Winter Session. I salute everyone. The Council of Europe, as it is known, is an institution that has the superiority of human rights, law and democratic values and aims to make life valid in all areas of life in all member countries. Our delegation is actively participating in reports, making commission studies, giving views to sessions in Strasbourg four times a year. Mr. Mevlüt Cavoglu, who has been chairman of the AKPM since 2010, has completed his mandate. The new AKPM President, French Mignon, has been seriously raised as a result of the performance presented by the members of the Council, Mr. Sergeyoglu. I'd like to share with you that the council's first and Turkish Muslim president has delivered the mission with such praises. On the first day of the session, an exhibition of photojournalists from the Anadolu Agency, entitled being human in Somali, was opened by Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc. This exhibition has been very useful for Turkey's sensitivity to the situation in Somalia to attract attention on the Council of Europe platform. In addition to the intense agenda of the session, we have done active work in harmony with the active participation of all our delegation members in our concerns about the law, which restricts freedom of expression that is being spent in France. On this occasion, I'd like to thank our members and everyone in charge of the commission. The bill in France not only restricts and punishes freedom of expression but also brings limits in many areas of personal freedom, such as scientific research, defence of research results. It was our duty to endanger the attention and attention of the Council of Europe, which we founded. We reminded the Council members that these values should not be wasted by any country for the sake of short-term political purposes. We explained that such infraction attempts to remain unresponsive could set an example for other countries and that the basic human rights values would be severely damaged by other violations. Prior to the General Assembly meeting, we began working with the AKPM chief, the Council Secretary General, the Council Human Rights Commissioner, the AKPM political group presidents, who pointed out the danger I had sent to them. During the General Assembly, we also wrote a written declaration that called for French politics to take necessary measures before the situation reached an irreversible stage of concern and began to collect signatures. The declaration, issued by lawmakers of more than 20 members and members of every political group in the Council, will be open to signature until the next session. In this session, we also asked high-level speakers to address the Council General Assembly to keep the matter on the agenda and to share their views. Council General Sequence, Mr. He said that history should be left to historians and history books and that political decisions should not be made about historical events. Human Rights Commissioner Thomas Hammarberg, one of the most respected and trusted figures in Europe, said freedom of expression could be limited if he encouraged hatred and violence, but the law in France could not be assessed within that scope, and making decisions about different versions of history is not the work of political institutions, which the French Senate found helpful. British Prime Minister David Cameron spoke of the importance of leaving the past and focusing on the day, saying it would be beneficial for everyone to have stronger relations with the countries of the European Union and Britain. AK PARTI CALARIAN MP Şaban Toothli, quoted in this framework, said historical events were being used as election material by populist politicians, and said it was a dangerous development. CHP MP Haluk Koç said the law was antidemocratic, saying historical events should not be a source of political influence. A paragraph on the opening of archives and the establishment of a commission of historians was adopted under a amendment proposal submitted by EC Kayseri MP Pelin Günış Bakır. I respectfully announce that we are monitoring the developments in France, that we are preparing to continue such activities on the Council when necessary. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0007par0059	Thank you, Mr. Memecan. Here you are, Mr. Bilgehan.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0008par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Nursuna Memecan, our chairman of the Committee, for informing us of our work in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. But I wish we didn't have more than 100 arrested journalists, elected MPs and local executives, students, a failing judicial system, but we as Turkey could be proud of our democracy as far as our economic power. Unfortunately, we were unable to respond to the critical report of Human Rights Commissioner Hammarberg of the Council of Europe, and our country was among the troubled European countries for human rights. It is in the hands of the ruling party with a strong majority to change this situation. Hopefully, the new package of justice reform will yield the expected outcome. We had the pride of being the first country to ratify the Council of Europe's Convention on Women's Violence and Domestic Violence. Now, it's time for him to adapt to civil law. We wish that the bill that will soon be on the agenda of Congress will include all women until they die in the first place.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0009par0067	Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0010par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the problem with building the Black Sea coast road with a sea filling is that the roads have collapsed, causing the loss of life and property from time to time as a result of rising sea waves. The last example of this happened on the Hopa Sarp coast road, about 200 feet [60 m] down the road. It was provided with a two-way road leading to Sarp. The way that has been wronged in its time must be considered technically again and measures to prevent such collapses. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0011par0073	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0012par0075	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the flood of Hatay Amik Plains in Hatay has really turned into a disaster. Over 200,000 acres of sown land were flooded and the farmer's crops died. We now invite the government and AKP's Hatay MPs to serve. Whatever needs to be done, the Hatay farmer must not be left alone with his own fate. But there is one thing to say: The consequences of the government's tense relations with the Minister of Foreign Affairs with Syria should not be made to pay the price of the people. The opening of the dam doors on the Rebel River has transformed the scale of this disaster into a disaster. Thus, our government must pay for the damage that the farmer suffered for reasons that were beyond his control. If necessary measures are needed, the legal arrangement must be carried out and the disaster of the Hatay farmer must be met. I've been promised this information, these feelings. Thank you for your promise, my dear President.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0013par0078	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0014par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is an important institution. The European Union process is also very important to Turkey. But we have a reality there: to be the 1st in the European Court of Human Rights and to be the 1st in the sentence, with 159 verdicts, unfortunately, it belongs to Turkey. We're in the country where the most thought offenders, the press, are under arrest, they're inside. We're in the country where the most violence is inflicted on women. We're in the country where politicians are most under arrest. With long detention again, we are in the only parliamentary situation in which the MPs are arrested. Indeed, the democratization of our country under the Copenhagen Criters...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0015par0085	Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0016par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. In today's world of long and violent winters, both our country and our region are severely affected. In particular, there have been intense complaints from the chiefs that the village roads have been closed and have not been opened for the past three days, a demand from our people that the Ministry of Internal Affairs be carried out before anyone else by putting the sensitivity of education, health care failing. Hopefully, hopefully, these needs will be met as soon as possible.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0015par0089	Mr. Original...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0017par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. You know today is February 1st, the anniversary of the murder of Abdi İpekçi. On this occasion, I bless Abdi Ipekçi. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0018par0095	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Constitution is 98th, in an effort to investigate permanent solutions to the fight against violence against women. and 104 and 105 of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully submit the opening of Parliamental research. One of our most important problems is, of course, violence against women outside the family and outside the family. Violence not only affects women's physical and spiritual health but also prevents the development of her legal, social, political and economic status. International contracts, commitments and regulations have been made in order to prevent violence against women and protect victims. Despite these regulations, recent research has shown that violence against women is a very important issue that needs to be evaluated and not reduced to an increasing extent. More and more violence against women Whether the legal process doesn't work well, whether it's the lack of social education, whether it's the pressures of economic difficulties on individuals, whether it's the lack of the ability to protect victims of violence, whether it's the failure of our laws to have sufficient sanctions, whether it's the wrong religion and social values, cultural degeneration, or multi-directional degeneration. And in order to achieve a permanent solution to the fight against violence against women, all formal and civil institutions and organizations must be determined by the means and method of mobilisation. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is responsible for this. Therefore, it is important for our social health, not just for our women, to bring up Parliamentary Research on the matter as soon as possible. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Mughle]] [[Kütahya]] 6) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Elazığ]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] [[Kayseri]] [[Manisa]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 15) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Tekirdağ]] 18) Durmiş Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey "Ti-Te-Te-Te-Te-Te-Te-Te-Te-Te-Te-Te-Te-Te-Te-Te-Te-Te-Te-Te-Te-Te-Te. In order to investigate the human health and environmental effects of cyanide use in Silver Production Facility, we respectfully submit to the need to open Parliamentary Research under Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitution, the 98th, Turkish National Assembly's Internal Charter 104th and 105th. 13.10.2011 As it is known, meat silver A.Ş., founded by Etibank in the village of Kütahya, about 20 miles [32 km] from the city center of Kütahya, was sold as a privatisation as soon as the AKP came to power and at a symbolic price in 2004. Silver Incorporated. The allegations that one of the cyanide-based waste storage pools belonging to silver production facilities collapsed on 07.05.2011 have led to a variety of discussions, closely watched by different parts of society, which have come to the public's agenda of "stained waste water polluting the environment." The construction of the facilities, which were commemorated after the collapse of cyanide-based waste pools, which have caused major concerns throughout our county and in the districts, particularly our citizens in and around the nearby facilities, began again on 14 June 2011. On the same day, seven of our citizens were taken to the hospital, suspected of being poisoned by drinking water delivered to Dulkadir village within four kilometers of the facilities, and reported that many animals had been destroyed by company officials, These lines were off. There's sabotage here in the factory and the village." a statement has been made. Following this incident, media reported that the Kütahya County Environment Board had fined $4,500,000 for "giving cyanide water to the water pipeline used at home in Dulkadir Village." "The report that 97 workers working in a private laboratory were referred to Ankara Occupational Disease Hospital for alleged heavy metal pollution on the border value in a routine check dated July-2011; the State Environment Board's "Eti Silver Assessment" reported that the workers had bullets, arsenic, cadmium and mercury in their urine and blood.The news was also found in some media organs of September-2011, when he decided to close four pools, each with the capacity to store 5 million cubic metres of cyanide, on the grounds that the pools were filled with mud and were not sensitive to it. The TMMO Chamber of Environmental Engineers has made a public statement saying that "there is 40% more cyanide in the sample of drinking water from the region than the limitable values," but the statements of company officials and some official executives have confused our citizens on the contrary. The allegations that the issue has been brought to trial over the statements, that some employees have been threatened with dismissal, while some employees have been dropping out of work and have filed charges against the business have increased public concerns. The claims that the death of various types of cancers began in the nearby villages, after the production of silver in the facilities, and that the arsenic density in the villages' water resources was caused by extreme concentrations of water, suggest that the issue is inescapable to be investigated in detail without further delay. For reasons revealed above, a parliamentary study is required to be launched "to investigate the effects of cyanide use in the Kütahya Eti-Silver Ash silver production facilities and to investigate the human health and environmental impacts of human health and environment." [[Kütahya]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Kayseri]] 9) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Mughle]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Aydın]] [[Mersin]] [[Elizipt]] [[Adana]] [[Tripoli]] [[Ankara]] 18) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Erzurum]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 24) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country and especially in our major cities, thefts, robberies, street demonstrations, and violence have increased greatly. As a result, many tradesmen, public institutions and institutions, banks, municipalities have suffered financial losses, while citizens pay with lives in some cases. That puts the citizen in a position to take care of himself. In cases, the use of young children and young people in the forefront makes events even more insurmountable. Therefore, the measures necessary to prevent these events and prevent violence in our major cities, the role of children and young people in these events" are 98 of our Constitution and 104 and 105. We demand and demand the establishment of a Parliamentary Research Commission. In many parts of our country, especially in our eastern provinces and in our major cities, crime and violence are increasing. Unemployment, hunger, poverty, economic factors and the government's wrong policies are key factors in increasing crime rates and violence. It is dramatic that unauthorized actions in various areas are used as a shield against security forces in the front lines of children and young people. In this, family miscommunication, lack of education, unemployment, and the anxiety of the future play an important role. There are no guilty children and no young people. There's a kid and a teenager who's been framed. In particular, the circumstances in which one lives greatly affect one's personality as to what kind of individual he will become. The fact that children are brought to the forefront of violence increases the reality of the event. According to the Justice Department's criminal record, one out of eight people living in our cities has been convicted. Although criminal organizations and ideological and political circles benefit from the fact that the criminal record has been wiped out every two years if the crime is not renewed, it makes them vulnerable by putting children first. Once a criminal record is entered, if kept in prison for a period of time, it becomes a militant. So we must protect our children from becoming militants. Courting guilty children in juvenile courts, reducing the punishments that correspond to their crimes, that's not the answer. Studies should be done to prevent them from becoming members of ethnic, separatist organisations such as the (children') crime organisation and PKK, and our children must be guided and trained to benefit society, country, and humanity. [[Mersin]] 2) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 3) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Mughle]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] 10) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Manisa]] 12) Durmiş Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Tripoli]] 16) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] [[Erzurum]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 13 October 2011, it was proposed that the Parliament's Research Council, given by Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan (76 rows), be read in the same-date combination of the talks and presented in Wednesday's 1:02.2012 jointly, before other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly of Turkey in order to investigate the issues in the fishing sector. In favour of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, the first statement is from Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0019par0279	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Peace and Democracy Party Group's motion to investigate the problems in the fishing sector. I salute you all. Its three sides are surrounded by seas, rich with streams, geographically strategic; its historical, tourist products have also increased fishing problems in our country, which is rich underground, above-ground. In our country, after the global economic crisis, the Black Sea, the Marmara, the Aegean, the 178,000km coastline to the Mediterranean, over a million hectares of 200 lakes, 3,442km streams, unfortunately fishing production is facing serious problems. There are 5,000 species in the Mediterranean and 1,700 species in the Black Sea. There are 247 species of fish in the Black Sea, 200 in the Marmara, 300 in the Aegean, and more than 500 in the Mediterranean. While the world's fishing sector is rapidly developing, especially since there is no national policy as the European Union process changes are being produced, there are serious problems because the ministry's arrangements remain at the level of administration. We would like to remind you that the common fishing policy of the European Union is 4.3 billion euros of the European Fishing Fund, which, when we look at it, is reserved for protection. Unfortunately, Turkey can't take advantage of that. Since Greece is a member, Cyprus can benefit because countries such as Bulgaria, Romania are members, while other countries -- such as Georgia, Russia -- are unable to complete the accession process. Unconscious hunting, lack of control, lack of plan, problems in cultural fishing also lead to rapid waste of resources. The heavy metals carried by the Danube River to the Black Sea are a separate threat to pollution. Compared to OECD countries' spending for fishing, our country has a gap. In our country, especially due to weather conditions -- here, a profitable, stormy process these days -- we also know that there's a quick increase in fish prices by over 100 percent, that fishermen can't go hunting, that transport can't be done, that their products are available, or that they can't hunt. For example, in the Black Sea, what does the remaining 300,000 tons do, even during fertile seasons? Fish flour is sold to oil factories at a price that's not worth it. Despite its vast export potential, unfortunately, the problems of the fisheries industry that can't even afford internal consumption in this regard require a new policy on support, incentive, conscious hunting. Besides coastal fishing, hunting in the open seas also has many problems with neighbouring countries, and many of our fishermen have lost their lives. We don't have enough legislation to encourage small fishing, to protect, to develop water products co-ops, to oversee troll hunting. In universities, education needs to be weighted, RD studies developed in this area, fish conditions, brokerage, taxes and loans, incentives to be attached to new foundations. Of course, when we talk about it, there's a lot of problems that we can't fit into in a ten-minute... We're going through a process where fishermen who can't hunt enough can't even afford their staff, their crew, their fuel, their costs, and they can't go to their office because they lend money to fishermen, and they catch fish, and they pay for that fish. He can't catch fish, and when he goes to the office, he asks her for money again, and he asks for money, and because he's in trouble, it's a mutually negative situation. There was an incident in Romania about troll hunting -- you saw it at work, it was on TV -- there was an attack on the President of the Bordered Water Products Cooperative. What is it? What isn't it? How do you break the ban on troll hunting in the throat? The Coast Guard is now connected to Internal Affairs, which was previously independent of the Ministry of National Defense. What are the funnies doing? What are the problems on the shores of these particular sonar searches, what are the problems of amateur and sporting fisheries, as well as coastal fishing, and what are these areas of expertise? There's the Tripoli Central Water Products Cooperative, the East Black Sea Fisherman Cooperatives Association again, they've got problems, they've got problems. There are different challenges in the Aegean, of course, depending on its place. From the coastal fishing in Çanakkale, the Aegean sea, and its fisheries and problems, there is a separate need for attention from Saros Bay to Bodrum, starting with the coastal fishing in Çanakkale. Once again, when we look on the West Black Sea side, the coastal village, Needleda, the two ports, the last of the most important fish fishing season in the country, we see that even products are no longer approaching them. Interestingly, we are talking about the most delicious fish of our seas, Bosphorus. There's no lily, it's growing more expensive than lüfer gold prices. But before it there is a yellow-wing, before it there is a zincop, and before it there is a fisher, and it has a smaller one. He has a certain kind of ban on hunting, but the citizen has recently forgotten that because he can't see that yellowwood is a lufer, it's a kofana. There's no more kofana at the counters. Strangely, it's in the acorn. The acorn can't grow, can't be found. It's the best laker ever made from Tori. Look, you won't be able to market it, the torik lakerda is now being searched. So with all this wealth, all this wealth, all this efficiency, it's a country that can't control its own product, its own wealth, its own existence, its own hunting ban, its own resources, and it's a miserable fishing trade. The taking of these networks, the materials used in amateur fishing, the jokes, all of the smaller engines, all of these are very, very, very concerned about a population that is over five million, and unfortunately they are not organised in the country's real problems. In this respect, a search of the House may give you a taste, a chance to eat more delicious fish. I'm saying think about yourselves with the fishermen. We're asking you to vote positively for this research motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0020par0294	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. The first word against the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal is by İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0021par0298	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I have made a pledge against the group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party, and I hereby salute your grand delegation. Of course, in our country, the problems of fishing, the proposals for solutions are very important. Because our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has very serious steps in this regard. There are also studies by our government in both the General Directorate of Fishing and Water Products, both 22 and 23, but today our parliamentary agenda is very intense, and there is a change in the Interior Charter on the Turkish Parliament's Civil Charter. I hereby declare my word against the BDP Group proposal, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0020par0301	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. In favour of the Peace and Democracy Group Proposal, the final statement in favour of Mersin MP Vahab Eleker. Here you go, Mr. Chosen.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0022par0304	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the opening of Parliamental research in order to determine issues related to the fisheries industry by the Peace and Democracy Party. My dear friends, in various issues in Turkey, in the various sectors, they want to find out about these problems, which have reached lawmakers, political party groups on the discovery of their solutions, and from time to time, group proposals are being made, and parliamentary research on these issues, the detection of these issues, and the detection of these solutions, and they want the Supreme Assembly to take precautions on this issue, to make some arrangements, but they are generally rejected by the ruling party -- a large percentage of their suggestions -- a fraction of them -- are often rejected by the ruling party. Again, over the past few weeks, I've been promised a motion by the National Movement Party to open a parliamentary investigation into the resolving of problems in the narcissistic sector, which is also a subject of the agricultural sector. When my tongue turned around here, I tried to tell our fellow lawmakers, our friends from all political parties that this was an important issue, especially that there was a significant share of workers in this sector, that they had made significant contributions to the economy, that they had made significant contributions to exports, and that there were significant problems today, especially in 2010-2011 season, and that there were also significant problems today in the 2011-2012 production, the Narenist production season. But our efforts have been wasted here, and with the vote of rejection of my AKP MP friends, the opportunity for parliamentary research has been eliminated. But when I went to my district this weekend, Mersin, you know, it's an important province in the production of citrus, where our friends organized a meeting and called me there. I had a friend of mine who was a member of the National Movement Party, a Mersin MP, a member of the ruling party, and I didn't see him there. They had the heads of the agricultural chamber there, they had the heads of export troops, they had the presidents of the narcissist production co-op, they had the heads of the irrigation union, so all the shareholders of the industry were there. There, people tried to explain their problems. We, the opposition party members, listened to them, but I couldn't find one of my fellow lawmakers there. This means that my fellow lawmakers, citizens, citizens, are afraid to stand up to them because they have problems, they have problems. These problems, these problems, they're looking for a solution, they're looking for a solution, but my fellow lawmakers, my friends from the ruling party, they're running away from the public. Now, again, there is a motion from the Peace and Democracy Party on a matter that may be considered important to our country. There is a proposal to establish a research commission in Turkey for identifying the problems of the fishing sector. Turkey's three sides are surrounded by seas, two-thirds of Turkey's total border is a coastal border, more than 8,000km. We have important streams of water, rivers that are 177,714 kilometers long, the total surface area of our marine and upper water sources is 25 million hectares. Think about it: the total farmland in Turkey is about 28 million hectares, the amount of land that we can produce water products or produce through hunting is about 25 million hectares. This sector provides direct employment to 47,000 people, but we're looking at its GDP contribution, a country that has so much potential, a country that has only 4 percent of the GDP. We also have important potential for fish species. In the Black Sea, we have 247 in the Black Sea, 200 in the Marmara, 300 in the Aegean, and about 500 in the Mediterranean, and we have that important potential. You're looking at production, again, not the amount that this potential will meet, but the amount that is very low. In 2009, we were able to produce around 622,000 tons, and in 2010, we were able to produce around 653,000 tons. You're looking at the total production of world water products, 145 million hectares. So I've just told you, in our country with this much potential, only 433% of the world's production is produced in Turkey. That's a pretty low number. These potentials, however, can be brought to a very good point with the measures to be taken. The production is done in two ways, including hunting and breeding, a significant part of the production is being hunted in Turkey. Here are the exact numbers for 2010. Approximately 445,700 tons are provided from the seas, and the 40,260 tonnes of hunting is from our internal water, and the other part, which completes 644,000 tons of production, is about 160,000 tons of breeding. Of course, populations are increasing in the world and in Turkey, so nutrition is becoming more and more difficult, and balanced nutrition is becoming more important. You know, the fish is also an important food source for protein, a food form that contains about 15 to 20 percent protein. Thus, Turkey must quickly take measures to grow. There are a lot of countries in the world about this; there's China, there's India, there's Vietnam, there's Indonesia and so on, but when you look at this ranking, Turkey is about 35, it's about eight, nine. In this sense, this sector has to be investigated, studied, what kind of problems they have to be detected. In the European Union negotiations process -- you know -- agriculture in general is very important. This acquish, look, three basic issues of 35 chapters are about agriculture. Agriculture and rural development, food safety, veterinary services and fishing are so important, there's only one chapter in fishing. In this regard, important studies have been tried in the past 23 · Global Voices, as the European Union needed to be adopted to open this negotiating title. The Law on water products 1380 needed to be harmonised with the European Union's legislation. We discussed these issues in the commissions, but we couldn't come to any conclusions. The European Union Commission often voiced this issue in its progress report every year and criticised the government of the Republic of Turkey on this issue. My dear friends, there is the subject of fish farms, especially in the Aegean, in the Mediterranean. Turkey must export to close the current deficit. Tourism is one of the key ways to close the current deficit; we have $23 billion in tourism revenues last year. 35-36 million tourists visit Turkey, but we're looking at it, and we're unconsciously clearing the coasts, the coasts of the Aegean, the coasts of the Mediterranean, and we're allocated to fish farms. This issue should also be evaluated immediately by the competent government, and I think measures should be taken in this regard. I say we vote well for this proposal, and I give all of you my regards.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0023par0320	Thank you, Mr. Chosen. The last word against the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal is Mr. Hüseyin Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0024par0324	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a promise against the group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party. Following yesterday's Czech Law, our appointed Parliament, five members of the AK PARTY, and Republican People's Party MP Kamer Yüğün. There are proposals for amendments to the amendment of one of its articles. As our agenda is thick, I respectfully salute your high-ranking delegation by declaring that we did not participate in the Peace and Democracy Party's motion to investigate the problems of fishing.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0025par0328	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0026par0329	I want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0025par0330	Just a second, I'll take care of him. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0027par0332	Thank you, Mr. President. The province of Mersin is an important province of fish species wealth, and an important food fish that needs to be consumed in terms of protein and minerals for healthy living. The price paid for 236 TL ($236) for fishing in particular to the bonding log is increased to 276 TL, and when the payment is delayed by a day, they may be punished with three times as much punishment as there is in any other area. They specifically want this app to be terminated by fish producers. On the other hand, the important thing is that the time of fishing is right. Trolle, particularly in the ovulation process, is a way for fish fishing near the coast, which is also a way for us to face the extinction of certain species of fish, which means taking steps to prevent that from happening. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit01spe0028par0336	I submit the group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party to your votes. I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0028par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 59th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. 01.02.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors 01.02.2012 on Wednesday (now), since there is no consensus among the Political Party Groups, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. Yours truly. On Wednesday (November 18th 2011) our parliamentary research motion, which we gave to the head of the TBMM with a number of 813 points and "With the aim of determining the Problems of the Driver's Shop," was read in the General Assembly (now) and suggested that their talks be held in today's Union. The first word against the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal belongs to Mr. Mehmet Ali Sesam. Here you go, Mr. Sesame.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0029par0017	Mr. President, I have been promised to discuss the nationalist Movement Party's proposal for the problems of the driver's business. Surely it's against form, but in essence, the driver's business has very important problems, and these problems are things that we all need to discuss and discuss here. I'd like to ask the MPs, please, through Mr. President. Friends who want to talk, please, if they talk outside, I'll explain the problems of the driver's shop in a way that drivers can hear. Dear friends, driving is a profession. This is a very common profession in our country because the transportation of our country -- although the three sides of it are the sea -- the shipping of the sea has been neglected, and the railway networks have begun during the period of the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, but have been interrupted later -- has come to a point where travel transportation, cargo transport in Turkey has always been done by land, especially by the direction of international capital. So there are thousands of drivers in our country who do taxis, vans, trucks, buses, and so on. This is more than their own preferences, due to the way those who run the country have chosen in the transport industry. Our friends who are willing, invested, bought a car or worked on it have serious problems. There are important issues in this parliament that can be discussed about the solution to these problems, but the most important part of them is to represent the organizational forces of this sector in the boards that are interested in this work and to open up democratic accession opportunities and pathways within those boards. Look, the driver's shop and the transportation sector are getting 41 documents. These documents are as many documents as you can count K1, C1, Y1, D1, D4. These documents are issued by the Department of Transport and the Boards of Highways, but these documents -- along with the SRC documents -- unfortunately, are not a matter of much involvement in the drivers' rooms, their agencies. In this sense, we usually have to figure this out: In the giving of all these documents, the vocational rooms should be actively involved. Unfortunately, although driving today is a very common profession, in terms of education -- in terms of the quality and quality of this profession -- the ministry's bureaucracy remains in the hands of education, since the vocational rooms do not participate very actively in the matter, it is not possible for a part of people who are looking to earn more money at the point of their work, without a profession, without a job, to be able to make a good connection between customers and drivers in this profession, unfortunately, and to do a good job. For him, the driver's training is an important issue, we need to figure this out, one. But the second thing that matters is that there are serious problems with the financial infrastructure of the transport industry. One: this country, especially in transport, sees fuel, diesel as a tax revenue, unfortunately, it receives greater tax revenues than the diesel used. Today, the trucker's shop, which runs on illegal diesel transport, is unfairly competing with a trucker who bought diesel from a regular station. Look, there's a lot of demand coming in, and they're saying that the trucker who received an international transport license shouldn't be doing domestic transportation, he's being unfairly competitive. Why? Because he's buying diesel from the outside of his shipping warehouse, and when he arrives here -- poor diesel -- he's unfairly competing with the local gas field. We promised this. We promised as Republican People's Party that when we're in power, we'll remove the tax from the village's mausoleum and we'll remove the tax from the mover's shop. We will not receive taxes from diesel or fuel, so we will prevent the trucker from using oil number 10 or unjust competition amongst themselves. Second, there should be no price for this transportation, as far as power is concerned. Just as the Transport Ministry puts a price on taxi transport, if it puts a price on a van, it also has to oversee the tariffs it puts in trucking and prevent transportation under those tariffs. In this sense, the problem of our drivers is one of the most vital problems. Beyond that, one of the major problems of the transport sector is that the Ministry of Transport has made arrangements and the bureaucracy, particularly the understanding of bringing this sector into the interest of large companies. Let me give you an example of how this works: Dear friends, today we have a lot of cooperatives in the transportation industry. These co-operators are multi-cooperatives in the transport area, from the truckers' co-operatives. You're bringing self-profit problems to these cooperatives, and you're saying that if you're a co-operative with twenty vehicles, this cooperative will have ten of its own. Collaborative partners will give their own tools to this cooperative. That's what they're trying to do by showing old cars here. In fact, co-operating in transportation is a very accurate practice, a way. But if you set up a real estate problem in order to open the way for logistics companies to prevent co-ops, you're going to shut down thousands of owners here, you're going to push them out of co-op, you're going to leave them on their own, and you're going to activate logistics companies in this field. You're going to remove the asset requirement for co-op property, you're going to make co-ops into transport co-ops with more members, and you're going to stress that the movers in the co-op have the first right to transport in government contracts, so you're going to put the trucker, the trucker who makes money at the head of the steering wheel, making money in this area first. You push them aside, you create a way for big corporations to become more active in this area, big movers. Perhaps the Minister doesn't think so, but the generalizations of the Ministry's bureaucracy are finally coming to a point that makes it mandatory. So, once again, I say this understanding must be changed. Second, there should be representatives of the legal status of the trade room representatives at the councils of transport co-ordination, which organises municipal traffic in municipalities. The representatives of all the movers, unfortunately, are there in many minorities, whose opinion on matters are only relevant; the right to vote and to become a noble member has been taken from them. That means making decisions about this sector with bureaucrats who don't know the business. So, I would like to quickly say that instead of deciding on the state bureaucracy of our driver's rooms, our driver's shop, we need to make decisions on their proposals. Instead of taxing the transportation industry's diesel, fuel, spare parts, those people need to dominate their understanding of how to sustain their livelihoods, and we need to take it to a better place by training the driver's tradesman. With these feelings, I, in this sense, thank everyone for allowing the problems of the driver's shop to be discussed here once again, with respect.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0030par0030	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. The first word in favour of the National Movement Group's proposal is Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu of Kahramanmarash. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0031par0034	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party and person on behalf of my party and on behalf of the council's proposal to determine the problems of the driver's shop and to determine the solutions. I hereby salute your high council. The driving profession is increasingly difficult in the face of increasing problems. Our driver's shop, who has been driving long roads for hours and hours, has been complaining about never getting over the problems caused by bureaucracy. The most important problems with the driver's trade are expensive fuel prices and high tax rates. They are unable to bring bread to the families of the driver's business, whose earnings have fallen in the face of taxes and high fuel prices. Our driver's tradesman is experiencing the greatest challenge in the matter of the document. They were forced to pay high wages for numerous documents to public institutions and institutions. They are also experiencing great difficulties because of the challenges caused by the situation. The regulations made by the government have brought the chauffeur's trades to one another in many counties. In some of our provinces, it is met with a reaction by the shipping industry based on legislation. The most obvious example of this also appears in our Kahramanmarash. Therefore, amendments to the legislation must be prepared and implemented by consultation with relevant NGOs. The driver's shop must be supplied with cheap fuel. One of the biggest challenges is the privilege of cheap fuel. The driver who registers in the Sea Chamber of Commerce is unable to benefit from the discounted fuel, lowering costs and moving passengers in the same area and the same province's trade rooms, while the driver's tradesman can't benefit from the discounted fuel. For reasons such as the cost of living and the increase of costs and the added expensive parts and tax, some of our trades are driven to use illegal fuel or incinerated oil in its vehicle instead of fuel. As the High Assembly, we must find a solution to the deepening and increasing problems of our driver's tradesman. These are not the only problems of our driver's business, who is trying to spend his life on the road, behind the wheel, alone, with a thousand difficulties. Our driver's shop has been flooded with documents over the last ten years. Under Highway Transport Law 4925 and Highway Transport Regulations, they were forced to take forty-one different documents concerning the driver's shop and show them to those involved. The trucker's shop is a mess. For these documents, the tradesman pays separately. The driver's shop, which goes on long roads, is stopped at every corner and forced to answer the paperwork. Our driver's shop, who is unlucky with expensive fuel, is having a lot of bad luck, especially when it comes to turning the road along its route. As the number of licenses increases, so does the financial burden of the driver's business. Such laws and regulations have put pressure on the driver's shop. In particular, the problems of the trucker's shop, which is required to obtain a K1 warrant, have increased as part of the D4 warrant. As part of the road transport regulations, the driver's tradesman's licenses should be removed from the professional rooms and the training and exemption measures of SRC documents are not done with the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications and the Federation of Turkish Drivers and Automobiles co-operation. The problems of the taxi driver's shop are the same, and they are waiting for solutions. The work prevents the taxi driver's tradesman from taking back the number of passengers he has taken outside the municipal borders and the mujavir area in the same way. The taxi shop expects work to be done on the solution to this problem. Unscheduled transports with A1 warrants have been said to have led to unfair competition, and it has become a matter of research whether transport with these documents has led to unfair competition. A tax deduction must be made to the driver's shop. The driver's shop faces a great deal of trouble with rising fuel prices. Tax-free fuel is a huge advantage of air travel and shipping. The driver's shop, who can't use high-profile fuel, is also struggling with that. The driver's shop, which transports land roads, wants to use non-tax-free fuel, just as it does in air and sea transport. The use of the "C" authorization issued to international vehicles for commercial purposes is damaging to the domestic trucker's trades. Cars with C warrants need to move abroad, and we have to provide cheap fuel to the mover's trades by providing flexibility in terms of receiving documents for the former driver's business. We have to check the ton/km schedule hard. When factories choose cars with C2 documents to make them cheaper, they break the recipe and create unfair competition for our carriers with K documents. At the moment, it's around $3 a gallon of masoth. A person with a C2 certificate can buy diesel for $1.70. He can transport domestically through gas from abroad, which breeds unfair competition. Which brings out the unfair competition for K-documented trucks who can't use cheap diesel. A truck with a C2 document can receive cargo from inside the country. The shopkeeper's chambers would like to limit it. A person who has a K1 document can't go abroad, and a person who has a C2 document must abide by the ban on not carrying cargo from abroad. Protective policies must be implemented to support small tradesmen in the transport sector, to prevent them from being crushed by the great tradesman. The best example of this is the K1 application. They were forced to pay $13.226 for the K1 document when the small tradesman's vehicle was worth 7 to 10,000. Innovations in technology also allowed trucks to improve their standards, but it is not possible to use the cheaper rural engine in our trucks, which is used by the higher price of eurodizel. Furthermore, the rapid rise in engine prices increases transportation costs. If it is thought to be cheap shipping and the trucker's business to earn money, the shipping industry must be given cheap diesel. It is also a problem for the road to connect the vehicle of the tradesman who delayed the tax on motor vehicles imposed by the Ministry of Finance. The driver's business is even more distressed by loans to mazota, tire shop, BUG-KUR, and banks. I salute our great Assembly with the wishes of the High Council to establish a law to comfort the chauffeur's tradesman.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0032par0058	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. In favour of the National Movement Party Group's proposal, the final statement belongs to İstanbul MP Sırrıyya Önder. Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0033par0061	Mr. President, I'm going to give a speech about the truckers, whether they're on your side or against you. I'm going to talk to the crew myself about being a trucker registered to the Tripoli Drivers' Association. My report card is from the Tripoli Drivers' Association. After I got out of prison, I drove a truck for a while and brought bread to my house. Let's skip me, but there's a great poet, Morning Ali, who's been a trucker for the rest of his life. On his way to his death, you probably took him as a guarantor for Justice Cimcoz, and you made him take bread home to Ali. He was killed by the government, you know. But after he got out of prison, he was worried about this bread. Let's explain the reason why we're going to prison, a little sorbet to the memory: Cemal Kutay has been reported by friends and his crime is to swear at Ataturk. His conviction, which led to Ali's imprisonment in Sinop Prison, where he had written Ali's arrest, was repeated by Cemal Kutay in a friendly conversation. Now, the religion of capitalism is money, faith is poverty. Our poor truckers were the ones who got the most out of it. It's good to tell you a little bit about it; when we say, "K1," "D4," "SRC" or something like that," the truckers don't get it, and our people don't get it. The issue, my friends, is that you have to have a vehicle capable of carrying 25 tons to get a transport document. That's at least two trucks, guys. A lot of truckers work every year. They go to debt, they take the truck, then they go around Asia Minor day and night to pay for it, and they don't sleep, and at the expense of every burden they can find, and at the expense of their supply. Highways are forbidden to them because if a trucker goes a thousand kilometers, he'll give them about a thousand lira of diesel money. It's a luxury for a trucker to drive a highway or something. Such exemptions, discounts to truckers in the use of highways, means condemning them to old, back-to-back, unsupervised roads. The system, which is constipated by its ability to isolate, ignores all of this. He ignores the use of the world's most expensive fuel with a freak, such as adding a TV to the tax-paid price of VAT. Then the killer tells the trucker, who works under these conditions, to get out of the way. After that, we, the trucker, deal with these problems before the trucker can be found, with the concepts that will allow terrorism to express mercy to be isolated. Forty-one documentary obligations were expressed by the speakers before us. The most important thing that is unspoken is that insurance is very expensive. They're considered in a high-risk group, and they're sentenced to high-risk policy charges. You have to look at the reason why all this moving stuff got loaded into the truck. The right-wing look used to look at the train and sense communistism from it. Over the years, there have been two concepts that have been associated with the term "tren" and "communism." Now, a new horror is being brought into the matter by high-speed train, but the size of the work is being neglected, the size of the transport, the size of the cargo transport. Basically, the average number of trucks occupying our land routes is about 800,000. These are numbers from a year or two ago. These are well above the European Union average. So there's a freak here, so we need to give him a hand first. Now, there's a number 10 oil use on the illegal fuel issue. In this country, about -- again, I think in 2010 -- there is a say about 2.5 billion dollars of illegal fuel markets; it goes and goes between 22 per cent and 17 per cent, but there's one thing that everyone keeps missing or can't say on this bench: oil distribution companies, large monopolyes, they've been punished for millions of dollars. So I'm speaking against an understanding in this country that wants to destroy this smuggling into the Kurds. There are two of the largest smugglers in this country: the first is the state, the second is the distribution monopoly. The motion issued by Bizatihi AK PARTY through our Vahit Kiler friend refers to the penalties given to them, I believe, in 2005 or 2006. Now, why is the government a smuggler? Because when you pay about four or five times more taxes on a property than its own worth, it means that you don't want to call it mad Dumrul. In this sense, it's a great injustice to blame these poor movers for ignoring all of this and not seeing that there's any way they can make money outside of the use of 10 oil or outside of the use of illegal diesel. This issue carries with it a major security issue, including the safety issue. People know that if you light a match in a masoth, it won't burn, but number 10 oil isn't like that. The number 10 oil, the fuel system of existing vehicles, is always in great danger because it is not done according to this, and the Solvent components used at the time of impact in the runaway mazotta invite such great danger. I would like to continue with a word attributed to the Great Leader Ataturk, in case you have a conscience, and the Turkish driver is one of the noblest feelings, he says. However, when he said that or was claimed to have said it, just before he died, the driver said in his acceptance of his trade, then the total number of drivers in Turkey is around 300-400. There's no telling what kind of nobility came out of this place. But I, the great poet, with the verse of a poet that you all know, have a little bit of clarity in the matter, and the trucks carry melons again, but the song in me is finished. Now, like the great poet said, the trucks don't carry melons anymore, because it's so expensive that shipping in this country has a function that makes life expensive because everything has to be transferred from one place to another, or it has to be transferred to places where the consumer is. If the manufacturer has many crops in the field, there's a big part of it that the farmer can't save when he rides the shipping costs. Yes, the trucks are carrying melons again. We'd love to call them melons, but trucks can't even carry melons anymore, they're carrying burdens of taxes because they're designed to make them poor, proleter and slave to large shipping companies or large equity owners. Our literature on truckers will now be limited to the nostalgic poems of the Morning Ali and the Cahit Ashebi. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0034par0072	Thank you, Mr. Commander. The final word against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group is from İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0035par0076	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal. I salute you all on this occasion. The agenda includes the problems of the driver's shop and proposals for solutions. And of course, the topics that our two valuable speakers, our congressman, point out are very important, and I know very well that there are serious steps, hard work, and there are still work being done. However, the parliamentary agenda is very busy, and today's agenda is the Civil Charter study, which will be discussed today by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Interior Charter Amendment proposal. That's why I say that I have an opinion against the MHP group proposal, and I salute each and every one of you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0034par0079	Thank you, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0036par0080	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0034par0081	I'll look at the number of decisions that are sufficient. I submit to you the proposal of the National Movement Party Group: those who accept... those who refuse... there is enough decision, the proposal is rejected. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. 01.02.2012 Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council's meeting Wednesday (January 01,02,2012), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. M. Akif Hamzacebi At 01,02,2012, İzmir MP Hülya Güven and his friends suggested that the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be read to the Turkish Parliament on the same date as the Council of Assembly Research, which was given on the basis of "experimenting consumer rights and establishing protective measures due to the privatisation of electricity distribution services" and other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. The first statement in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal belongs to Mr. Hülya Güven. Here you go, Mr. Trust.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0037par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you. Today, I have made a pledge on behalf of the group to consider the opening of the parliamentary investigation under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine consumer rights and protective measures due to the privatisation of electricity distribution services. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we're having a major break in electricity today. Two billion liras a year under the name of the missing fugitive. Two quadrillion liras a year, or 100 trillion liras a year, under the name of the perusal. We know that the use of electricity is a public service, and the state has to meet it, but we see that electricity distribution has been privatized, and the rights of citizens have been ignored. You will ask, "How does this happen? " The Chamber of Electrical Engineers has done an account, while the missing 16.3 per cent of the bills have been reduced in 2012, the distribution price has been increased by 20.7 per cent, so we see that reduction is a deception. Again, we see the missing fugitive name, which led to the citizens' objections and was ultimately reflected in the bills, is also hidden. As I've just said, the missing fugitive cost from a citizen in 2011 is seen to exceed 2 quadrillion in the old money description. Of course, distribution companies have to invest to achieve international standards, but we see that this obligation is unfairly burdened on the citizens. The EPDK has also concealed the name of these unfair charges, causing it to collect from citizens. Now, here's the counter-reading price. The prosecution has determined that the price is unfair. So, what did the EPDK do? Instead of eradicating this injustice, he also hid his name by giving a 150 percent increase. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have already stated that electrical services are a public service. Electricity is a public service for the common needs of the public, and it is unacceptable to be left entirely to free market conditions. Look what happens when it's left entirely to market conditions. I can give you a lot of examples, but I'll give you three examples. Because of the electricity debt left in one village from 2006, the villagers here say that there is no such debt, that electricity and water have been cut for a year and a half. Won't there be epidemics caused by thirst in this village? And how will hygiene be provided? How are they gonna do the laundry? How will they cook their food and drink clean water? Isn't it the government's job to provide them? Schools are said to be very advanced in technology when the tablet is distributed to computers, but our villages are left thirsty, without electricity, without doctors, without teachers. Another example is that even though there is no debt, electricity costs are paid regularly, the service is not available. In one province -- in fact, in many of our provinces -- our citizens say that electricity has been cut very often and very long. They say they can't get their money's worth for a service sold with money. Especially because of these power cuts, the tradesman tells us that they use power sources and generators, that they cost too much and that they are victims. So they stress that they can't get a service they've bought, and they also say there's no guarantee of a service they're paying for. And the third example is that I'm giving myself up. Like most citizens, I'm a consumer. I've been exposed to the injustice of their complaints. Nine thousand liras, nine billion lira bills for misreading an empty house with no electricity at all. I objected immediately. The first thing I was told was that I had to pay first, and then it could be processed later. But as a congressman, I took care of it quickly. And what would a citizen do? Their main complaint is that they pay by borrowing money from neighbors in the tyrannical errors in the electricity bill. And then there's a refund? No, it's being cut off from future expenses. The citizen is desperate, paying for the electricity they don't use in advance and borrowing money from their neighbors. Mr. President, we see that the government has left electricity distribution services entirely to market conditions, but let's remember that according to Article 172 of our Constitution, the state must protect consumers, and also the Law on the Protection of consumer 4077 protects our citizens. Well, is he sleeping? No. Mr. President, lawmakers, as a result of the Constitutional provisions, according to the decisions made by the State on behalf of the consumer, the price of reading the meter is unfair, the price of missing fugitive is unfair. These names are not to be taken, but those who are taken must be extradited without forcing the citizens to press charges. You must not receive too much money due to the misreading meter, and you must return the money immediately if you have it. First of all, the government has to protect the citizen. Again, citizens who regularly pay say that the power meter for the service they have purchased should be constantly turned around. As I've just said, part of the trade is particularly difficult because of a long-term power outage in our provinces, and they say that electricity bills must be organised to protect the rights of citizens. Again, I say the state must protect the citizen in every situation, in every situation, and I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0038par0114	Thank you, Mr. Trust. The first word against the Republican People's Party group proposal is from İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0039par0117	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the CHP group proposal. I hereby salute your high council. The CHP group's proposal is to investigate anti-consumption practices due to the privatisation of electricity distribution services and determine consumer rights and preventive measures. The issue is important, and I'm also taking into account the details expressed by our Hülya MP, a really important title, but today the amendment to the Civil Charter's agenda is on the agenda. Because the Turkish Parliament's internal charter is on our agenda, I have expressed my opinion against the CHP Group's proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0038par0120	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mr. Necati Özensoy MP. Here you go, Mr. Özensoy.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0040par0124	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group in favor of the group's proposal from the Republican People's Party. I salute you all. But as far as the law is concerned today, I think the group proposals will be our last day to be promised to each group ten minutes at a time like this. Precious lawmakers from the ruling party don't come up here and say that this law is important, so the problems of fishermen, the problems of fishermen, the problems of the driver's business, the victims of consumers because of some tax loads of electricity, but that law is more important, but group proposals and research proposals are really important for this Parliament. And then, in this law, our friends will express it, but at least I'll tell you this: while we're talking about these problems here in order to solve the problems of the citizen, some of the boards are also considering what we say at times. Last year, after I brought up an issue about these electrical tariff components, the EPDK also removed the TRT share from the missing fugitive. So at least what we've said from this platform, as I've said, we've been doing this as an opposition to some of the problems of the citizen, but unfortunately from now on, the group proposals that the groups are bringing in are only going to be discussed in favor and against each other for five minutes, so the problems of the citizen will be avoided by the opposition from these platforms. This is what the ruling party officials see as a bit of a chore, but when they look back on it, I want to say that it's very important for the citizens to express their problems from here on the stand. Here, the Republican People's Party has mentioned some problems due to the privatisation of electricity distribution services, but not just privatisation problems, but electricity-related tariffs are being created, cost-based tariffs are being created in 1/9/2006, and again in 1/7/2008, the High Planning decision is starting to implement cost-based pricing. However, as I've expressed in the past term, I have specifically brought up these recipe components in my talks about energy from the platform, expressing these numbers that TEDAS sent us, but then, as I said, the EPDK paid attention to that. And I also think that with a little press coverage, the missing number of illegals and some other taxes being canceled by the courts, it's become more of an issue. Indeed, when we look at these tariff components, the real electricity money that a citizen pays on electricity consumption bills is only 58 per cent. So 42 percent of what you pay is about tax and tax-related wages, 58 per cent of the amount of electricity it consumes. So, that's a huge injustice. I said that here, not to the Minister of Energy, but also to the Minister of Finance when we were having budget talks. I'm telling you exactly what our Finance Minister said when he was sitting here: Is this an unfair practice? I mean, getting taxes again, getting VAT. The tariffs here are in the middle. So here's what you do, including the TRT share, including the missing fugitives, if you think it's a fair practice or an unfair practice to collect taxes from all of this. But is it the right app? It's the right thing to do. Now, the logic of this, or the proper practice, means that it's true in terms of rules. If it's an unfair practice, if we're really wronging the citizens with these practices, it's the duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to change the rules. With these research, I think that if research commissions are set up again in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with their research proposals, then, of course, the victims of these citizens will be dealt with in this way, given that injustices have become clearer. See, electricity consumption isn't just about taxes, it's not just about missing fugitives, it's about the citizens. So when we look at the world averages, we're paying about 17 cents for electricity when the average electricity consumption is 12 cents an OECD average, so what does that mean? That means we're paying for over 40 percent of the OECD average. So, in this sense, in these tariff components, there's actually a number of missing fugitives at the top of the issues that are most disturbing to the citizens, so when we look at the world averages, there's no mention of the number of fugitives in the developed countries, while the number of casualties is six to seven percent and the amount of fugitives has reached 17 to 18 percent. So, when we think about it like this, unfortunately, citizen, when we move out of here, the amount of loss is going to cost 10 percent more for the fugitives. And the numbers actually go up to billions. And that was cancelled by various courts. When I say cost-based pricing, maybe it's the right thing to do, but then I suggest that we go from here to regional cost-based cost-based pricing. If there is a need in these areas, if these citizens need electricity distributed as much as coal is distributed, let the government subsidies them. On the other side, there's 65.25 per cent of the missing fugitive in Dicle, 57 per cent at Lake Van EDAŞ. The number of missing fugitives in a number of areas like this is very high, but it's being collected by citizens who pay the price for the high number of missing fugitives. Thus, the government does such injustice. I tried to illustrate with an example of this, as I spoke earlier: Imagine going to a shopping mall. We shopped at various stores, paid our bills. And just as I'm leaving, the doorman says, "Wait a minute, let the shoppers move aside. From here, here, sir, there's about 10 percent stolen goods per day." So on top of these bills, we're going to collect from you for the payment of these stolen goods. I mean, it's a real pain in the ass to have these doors locked in a shopping mall or shoppers surrounded and paid for it. Of course, among the government's goals, this TRT share has been lowered and removed as soon as possible. I'm not just saying it's for this semester. TRT will make the trumpet of power come, and so far, whoever is in power will make his horn. So it's not like there's a lot of public interest for TRT. It is wise to remove the TRT (TRT) immediately from being a burden on the citizens, and to compensate the citizens for their injustices. It means that we're in favor of this proposal, and I'm paying all of you respect.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0041par0139	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. The last word against the Republican People's Party's group's proposal belongs to Mr. Hussain Sahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0042par0143	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party Group's research motion. In accordance with the parliamentary work agenda set at the beginning of the week, we have a commitment to the immediate agenda of the group's research proposals not to be put on the agenda and to the agenda, and the Republican People's Party declares that we do not participate in the group's proposal for the determination of consumer rights based on the privatisation of electricity distribution services, and that we do not participate in the study of consumer rights based on the privatisation of consumer rights.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0041par0146	Thank you. Y O L A M A
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0043par0149	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0041par0150	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Kart, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Güven, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Ershi, Mr. Burk, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Topal, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Seçü, Mr. Öner, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Pine. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. Mr. Ayşe Nurkaplı, Kayseri MP Mr. Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Mr. Ahmet Aydın Üdıyaman MP Mr. Ahmet Aydın will begin negotiations with Tunceli MP Mr. Kamer Yün on the changes of Articles of Turkey's Grand National Assembly and the Constitutional Commission on the Institution of Turkey. Commission?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0044par0166	Mr. President, sir, the report is incomplete. Here's the thing: in the report...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0041par0167	Wait a second, let me get people to sit down... Commission? Here. The presidential representative? Here. The commission report was printed and distributed with 156 rows. Yeah, here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0045par0172	Mr. President, the Commission has also received my proposal for a amendment to the Civil Code, but the AKP has decided to combine the amendment with the proposals made by the AKP group's representatives, but not in the subcommittee report... in fact, the subcommittee report has accepted my offer... if you agree, if you promise me from the bench, because the commission report is incomplete. My proposal is either to be rejected according to Article 80 of the Civil Code, and when rejected, the grounds for rejection should be made known to us here, and there is no such thing. The 80th article of the Civil Code states that there is a demand for rejection in the Law. My offer was neither accepted nor rejected!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0041par0173	Now the Commissioner will make a statement, then I'll listen to you again, one second, there's a demand.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0045par0174	Yes, well, let him explain, sir, if he agrees, where he agrees.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0041par0175	Here you go, Mr. Lamb.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0046par0176	Mr. President, the AK PARTI has agreed that it is not appropriate for the group to enter into this text. (x) 156 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0047par0178	Where is it written, where is it?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0046par0179	It's in the report, it's in the subcommittee report.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0047par0180	Where's it written?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0046par0181	If you look, it's right there, it's open. So it's just to buy time, to lose time, Mr. Young, and there's nothing else.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0047par0183	Yeah, you're wasting time! You're wasting time! That's no way to talk!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0046par0184	So there's nothing to consider, Mr. President, he's doing what this claim always does. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0047par0186	Mr. President, look, let me explain, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0048par0187	Mr. President, let the President explain where you were in the report.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0046par0188	It's in the subcommittee report.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0048par0189	Where? Where's that report?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0049par0190	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0046par0191	You look, you almost find it, and I'll find out why. In the subcommittee report, you'll see it there.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0049par0192	No, sir, no.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0050par0193	Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0049par0194	It's not in the subcommittee report. You can read and write!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0051par0195	Sir, there's no subcommittee report on this, there's an assessment of the top commission...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0049par0196	It's not on the top commission either, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0052par0197	Our senior commission has discussed the subcommittee report, and look what he said in the subcommittee report. Listen to me.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0049par0198	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0053par0199	Then you didn't take it. You don't get to be President of the Commission like that, so get on with what you know. You come to what you know.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0052par0200	You've got the tail pain, the tail pain. You're a pain in the ass, you can't take that away from me. You have a pain in your tail. I'm reading.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0053par0201	You talk about things you don't know.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0052par0202	It's your understanding. For the second time, what the hell do you know about these things?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0053par0203	You wouldn't understand. If you only knew...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0052par0204	Now, look, what does it say here, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0054par0205	Sir?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0055par0206	The rush of criminals!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0052par0207	A member of the CHP has said that there should be an opportunity to submit the motion with one signature after the talks have begun in accordance with the 2/80 original proposal -- the arrangement of Mr. Youth's arrangement. It has been approved by our Article Commission with a majority of votes. It says so. So...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0056par0208	Well, if the substance is accepted... What's in Turkish... accepted by a majority of votes?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0052par0209	No, the motion not to enter, not to enter.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0057par0210	Mr. Young, let him finish.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0056par0211	Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0057par0212	Let him finish, then.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0056par0213	All right, let him finish.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0057par0214	I didn't say no. Let him finish, then.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0056par0215	Yes, sir. Yes, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0058par0216	Yes, that's all I have to say, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0057par0217	Here you go, young man. Mr. Original, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0059par0221	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are missing the Commission's report first. Now Burhan Lamb says... that these things... how does he make this Commission Chairman? The proposal now states in the subcommittee: "The 12th article of the proposal is considered the 11th article; it is not our concern that the existing application is regulated, that the motions be read twice. This is 2/80 -- which is my proposal -- and after the negotiations began in accordance with the original proposal, the opportunity to submit the motion with one signature. It has been approved by our Article Commission with a majority of votes. What did you agree to here?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0060par0222	The agreed clause is not a motion, Mr. Young. The motion is not accepted, the substance is accepted.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0059par0223	If it's been approved by a majority of votes, then my offer is accepted. So, guys, look, there was once a change in the Civil Code here, at the time of the trilateral coalition, the man died on this stand. Look, this is very important. You want to lower the voice of opposition in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The AKP's deputy presidents lie so much that at the beginning of his motion, he says, "Sir, the words of the MPs are not cut off." You reduce the speech to one hundred and sixty minutes in five minutes. You're opening up the procedural debate everywhere, cutting off the MPs' rights. You've brought the Dicta regime, and you're implementing the dictatorship in Parliament. Is that a Parliament, Mr. President? Actually, we need to lock the door to the House. After this amendment to the Civil Code has been adopted, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey no longer has a function; what questions can you ask, questions are left to the pleasure of power, the end of the process debates, and that will not happen. If there's going to be a settlement here, let's make a amendment to the Civil Code, or else the Civil Code won't pass through here, folks. Opposition parties, if this amendment passes through here, unfortunately, you no longer have the right to speak here. I mean, here's the whole power thing, I think, look, we're missing the report first, guys. We need to return this report. Let the commission take this report, sir, and bring the grounds for my motion. The commission and the subcommittee were approved by a majority of votes, but there's no mention of my offer in the top commission report. So, first, the Commission has to take this report and bring up the grounds for either rejection or acceptance of my proposal. According to Article 80 of the Civil Code, I have the right to speak on this. Therefore, the Civil Code can't be so arbitrary. I'm afraid I don't know what... The Deputy Speaker of Parliament, who participated in the commission, says everything is said in five minutes. Mr. President, you may be able to say anything once in five minutes, but how can they not do demagogy in five minutes? Do you have the right to call your MPs Demagoji? What kind of a thing is that, guys? Is that a thing? So after that, he says, "The MPs do demagogue, but if they don't do demagogue, they say everything for five minutes."
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0061par0227	Thank you, Mr. Young. Now, Mr. Original...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0062par0229	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0061par0230	Wait a second. I'd better take turns. I mean, I'm confused. Mr. Original Day has an objection to the fact that the commission report contains a contrary statement about his own martyrship, which will correct him. I'll give him my word on his location. Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0063par0234	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I object to the discussion of Article 63 of the Civil Code, replaced with Article 9 of the proposal. We object to the proposal that the debate over the procedure be put on the initiative of the Parliamentary Presidency. The Commission has made a statement in its subcommittee report that it is as if we have given the General Assembly an opinion on the position of the President. That wasn't my proposal, it was a motion brought by friends from the ruling party, so it was accepted. Therefore, I would like to see the subcommittee report corrected this way. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0064par0238	Thank you. Mr. Hamzacebi, come in now.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0065par0240	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0066par0241	Sir, this report is non-negotiable. He doesn't know how to write a report, Mr. President!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0064par0242	Now, let me listen to Mr. Hamzacebi, and then we'll take turns.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0067par0243	Pain in the tail, pain in the tail!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0066par0245	Come on... come on...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0067par0246	It's a pain in the ass.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0066par0247	You've got the tail. Lambs have tails.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0068par0248	Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0066par0249	You'll see, you...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0068par0250	As long as you don't change that tone, you're gonna get a lot more talk!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0069par0251	Mr. Turkkan, Mr. Vural, please...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0066par0252	I'll eat it...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0069par0253	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0070par0254	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0066par0255	Mr. President, would you please warn this Commissioner? Either let him sit with literature like the Commissioner, or let him get out of here.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0071par0256	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0066par0257	What kind of commissioner are you?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0072par0258	Stop... stop...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0071par0260	Mr. President, that's no way to address a group president.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit02spe0073par0261	I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger, inviting the members of the group to the rear.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0073par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 59th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Interior Charter Proposal 156 and the Constitutional Commission Report. The commission is here. The presidential representative is here.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0074par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0073par0006	What would you like to say, Mr. Korkmaz?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0074par0007	Mr. President, I, as a member of the Constitutional Commission, would like to take a moment's notice.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0073par0009	One second... one second...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0075par0010	Turn on the mic and we'll hear it.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0073par0011	Wait a second... we're going in rows, we're going in rows...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0075par0012	If you could turn it up...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0073par0013	But first he'll tell me what to say, and then he'll tell Mr. Korkmaz... Wait a second... Mr. Shandır is a...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0076par0016	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0073par0017	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0076par0019	A rude and hurtful statement has been expressed here in the previous session. So I'd like to invite the Presidential Court to apply the relevant clause of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0073par0020	Okay. Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0077par0022	Mr. President, a moment ago, before we took a break, there were some very unpleasant, unbecoming remarks from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Our regret was that it was the President of the Constitutional Commission who had to respect the highest rights, law, political party groups and representatives of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I'd like it to be absolutely known that as a member of the Constitutional Commission, it's not a way of connecting us, representing us. The work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey prevents healthy, healthy conduct of the General Assembly, and it does not suit the reputation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I apologize to our entire General Assembly as the Constitutional Commission, and I hope that Mr. President does not sit in the General Assembly in the order of the Constitutional Commission in terms of further healthy work. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0078par0024	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0079par0025	Mr. President, on the same subject...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0080par0026	Now, all together...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0081par0027	Representing the commission...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0080par0028	So I guess you'll say the same thing, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0082par0029	I'm a member of the Constitutional Commission.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0081par0030	Since the president is speaking as a representative of the commission, not himself...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0080par0031	Wait a second... Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0083par0033	Mr. President, on the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group, I stated yesterday that the talks on the proposal for today's Interior Charter would be held on the General Assembly of Turkey in 48 hours: This is clearly against Article 181 of the Interior Charter. The 181st Article of the Civil Charter of Turkey organises that proposals for amendments to the Turkish Parliament's Civil Charter can only be made by lawmakers, so the Civil Code does not give the political parties any authority to change the Civil Code. Our Civil Code wanted to open a way to a settlement of the Civil Charter amendments, as it referred to political parties in various articles, and provided them with some rights in other matters. However, it was an offer made by the 5 members of the Justice and Development Party as deputy chiefs of the group. So there is a clear violation of Article 181 of the Civil Code. The main feature of this offer is the silence of opposition. In 2001, at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the government, or the political parties at the time, offered a amendment proposal by some political parties, while a member of the ruling party today has a very heavy statement that criticises the proposal. I'm giving an example. That Civil Code amendment proposal brought in a fundamental law order. However, in order for a bill or a proposal to be considered as the basic law, the Turkish Grand National Assembly's General Assembly would have to be accepted by three-thirds of the vote, seeking a qualified majority of three-to-five. Although it was an offer that was important to compromise, that offer was considered by some of our friends in the ruling party today as a lack of common sense and common sense. On top of that, the Justice and Development Party went a lot further and made different ground rules in the past. He removed the qualified majority, the parliamentary majority, and the Justice and Development Party made an offer based on the majority. This offer we are meeting today is, in essence, an offer to lower the voice of the opposition, a proposal that lacks common sense and common sense. It will be accepted by your fingers, but these fingers will not be wise, these fingers will not rule by reason. I'd like to entrust these fingers to your mind, as your MP in 2001 stated, but I don't know how much your mind will guide your fingers. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0084par0036	Mr. President, first of all...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0085par0037	Now, I'll give you my word. Wait a second... I, first of all, in the talks that we're going to hold from now on, without distinguishing between our friends sitting on this side and all the MPs representing the House, in these meetings, in the courtesy of the House, in the presence of our Parliament, in the respect of our Parliament, in the language of our Parliament...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0086par0039	Sir, let the ruling party take responsibility, sir. Let the ruling party act responsible. To silence the opposition...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0087par0040	You talk the most.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0085par0041	May I finish, Mr. Young? Can I finish...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0086par0042	The ruling party is being irresponsible.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0088par0043	Mr. President, we're listening.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0085par0044	I'd like all our friends to pay particular attention to what I'm saying. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0089par0046	Mr. President, first of all, we have to say that we have no doubt made this offer as an MP. We're the vice president of the group, but we're also the MP. The 181st article can be made by lawmakers, which clearly stipulates amendments to the Civil Code. It prevents it from being brought in as a bill, it forbids it. So it's an offer we make, not a bill. Therefore, it has nothing to do with the ban laid out in Article 181. So the group's vice presidents can't or can't offer as MP?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0090par0048	No, you're giving it to me as a group vice president, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0089par0049	So there's no problem with that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0091par0050	An offer like this is not to be discussed here at headquarters.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0089par0051	It's also important to point out...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0092par0052	Yes, Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0089par0053	Mr. President... allow me, Mr. President. I'm not finished, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0092par0054	Sorry, he didn't finish.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0089par0055	So we listened very calmly to the talks just now.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0093par0056	Mr. President, such an offer is impossible to negotiate.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0089par0057	We expect the same kind of understanding from our friends, Mr. President, in the same frame as you just expressed. So we want everyone to follow it, we demand it. Finally, the fingers that rise here are the fingers that reflect the will of the nation. That shouldn't be insulted.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0094par0059	I'm just saying the words of your friend.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0089par0060	It needs to be respected. That's true of all fingers, Mr. President, and our nation knows first and foremost that he's a mind cube.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0094par0061	Mr. President, I want to make something right, sir. My words on the direction of the minds of the fingers are the words of a commissioner who is doing an important job at the ruling party today in 2001. I remind you of the promise of your friend.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0095par0063	Yes, that's clear. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0096par0065	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0095par0066	Okay. So we're taking turns.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0097par0067	Mr. President, we're going to discuss the amendment to the Civil Code, but in accordance with the Civil Code, it must come to the General Assembly. Yesterday we had an argument: the 52nd article, the 48th hour incident. The young man has a legal proposal on the matter. It wasn't illegally processed on the commission. And since it wasn't taken, the commission was short-processed and came in. There's also a deformity here, an injury. So I'm going to point out to you, Mr. President, this proposal of the law. The Civil Charter 181 says it is very clear that it is not the government, it is not the groups. It says, "Only the MPs decide how the Civil Charter shall work, the Parliament shall work. For it is the constitution of the Civil Charter, the constitution of the Assembly. According to the Constitution, the 6th article is the nation of government. It says that the 7th article cannot be transferred. But notice, the offer, the official signature that came to us, was signed as the group's vice president. So he's going to sign off on the group, the binding, the band.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0098par0070	It says Congressman, Congressman.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0097par0071	Now, in the face of this injury, there is...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0099par0072	It only prevents it from coming as a bill, prohibits it, nothing else.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0097par0073	...that we can't start seeing each other in this situation, since similar law proposals have not been accepted. If Mr. Young had a proposal here, perhaps he would have withdrawn it. Now, in this case, we would like you to take this offer from five of the members of the EC PARTY's group, in line with your defences here in 2001.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0099par0074	We weren't there in 2001, there was no AK PARTY.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0097par0075	Whatever was spoken on this bench in 2001, stand behind it. Stand behind him and pull him back. It is necessary for the safety of this House.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0100par0076	Roger that, Mr. Kaplan. Over. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0101par0078	Mr. President, these talks must be monitored by our people as well. So either these talks have to be held either from the stand as part of a general discussion, because the procedure is in the way of the basics.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0102par0079	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0101par0080	What's wrong with this place is going to cause trouble later.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0103par0081	Mr. President, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's hear it, sir, the citizen's here.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0101par0082	It's a very important matter, Mr. President, and if you promise me on the stand, I'll try to explain the reason for what's being said.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0104par0083	You want to discuss the procedure?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0101par0084	We'd like to discuss it in a manner of speaking, if necessary.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0105par0085	According to what system?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0106par0086	Yeah, I mean, there's no legal proposal.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0107par0087	You want a formal debate.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0108par0088	It's a formal debate...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0107par0089	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0109par0090	Uninterviewable, Mr. President!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0110par0091	I mean, it's impossible to see!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0107par0093	I'm not saying anything, honey. I have a request for a formal debate, and now I'm going to say yes.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0109par0094	It's not a formal debate, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0107par0095	In favor, against...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0111par0096	In favor, Mr. President, in favor.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0112par0097	In favor, Mr. President, in favor.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0107par0098	In favor, against...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0111par0099	In favor, Mr. President, in favor.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0112par0100	In favor, Mr. President, in favor.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0113par0101	Against...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0114par0102	The MPs who proposed the Civil Code were asked to have a formal debate as to whether or not there was any violation of Article 181 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0115par0103	Against...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0116par0104	Mr. President, it's against...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0117par0105	In favor, Mr. President, in favor.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0118par0106	In favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0119par0107	Against...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0120par0108	Against...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0121par0109	Against...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0122par0110	Lehte...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0123par0111	Okay, now, did you write it down? I'll read it again if it's written correctly. Mr. Shandır at the end of the day...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0124par0113	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0125par0114	We're the first ones to stand up.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0126par0115	In favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0127par0116	You, okay, Mr. Canicli...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0128par0117	Against...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0129par0118	Against...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0127par0119	...and Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0130par0120	Mr. Elitaş is in favor, in favor.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0127par0121	Against Hamzacebi at the same time...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0131par0122	Against my better judgment.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0132par0123	Against...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0133par0124	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0134par0125	Mr. President, you don't see us.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0135par0126	Then I'll draw lots.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0136par0127	Mr. President, if you look at the transcripts, I wanted to be the first to go against them.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0137par0128	Mr. President, Mr. Canicli and I are the first ones to make the noise.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0138par0129	There's Mr. Kaplan, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0139par0130	Okay, then look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0140par0131	Do it according to the records.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0141par0132	Look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0139par0133	Okay, okay, I'll take a look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0141par0134	Mr. Canikli and I, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0142par0135	Sir, let the reports come in, so...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0139par0136	Now, I'm going to look at the transcripts, and I'm going to go along with whoever asked me to, because it's a different matter.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0143par0137	Mr. President, make a promise from each group to a vice president.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0139par0138	If there's one person in each group, make a deal, and I'll give it to you accordingly.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0144par0139	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement. I'm the first one to bring this up here yesterday and today.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0145par0140	You've already talked about the necessary things.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0139par0141	Okay. Look, Mr. Hamzacebi, I'm going to have to look at the reports now that everyone's objecting at once -- in order -- or agree between yourselves...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0146par0142	One in each group.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0145par0143	Mr. President, look at the transcripts, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0147par0144	Friends from each group...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0148par0145	I'll give it to one person in each group.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0145par0146	Mr. President, check the transcripts first.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0148par0147	Okay, I'll take a look.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0145par0148	Look at the reports, let's see if the objections are right or wrong.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0149par0149	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0150par0150	One in each group.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0151par0151	That's not for me to decide. Talk amongst yourselves. Look, I'm going to look at the transcripts, so whoever wants it first, I'm going to give it to him, or you can agree between yourselves. You're four groups, so I'd like to give it to all four of you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0152par0153	Let's make it one person at a time.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0153par0154	It's a deal, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0154par0155	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0155par0156	One in a group, sir. Over.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0156par0157	Mr. Original...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0155par0158	There's a Covenant, sir. One of the groups...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0156par0159	Okay. Now, then, Mr. Shandir, Mr. Canikli, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Kaplan, do we have a deal?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0157par0160	It's a deal, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0155par0161	Deal.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0156par0162	Are we done...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0158par0163	When you look at what's in the reports, Mr. President, you'll understand that we've given our friends the right to make a promise.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0156par0164	Okay.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0159par0165	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0160par0166	Mr. President, let's have a congressman speak for the independents.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0156par0167	There's no such thing as...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0159par0168	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0156par0169	Mr. Original, what do you say?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0159par0170	Mr. President, before we discuss the procedure, we have another objection. We told the subcommittee report we got the wrong idea. At the same time, it is unclear what the Commission has agreed to regarding the proposal of Mr. Kamer Young. In this state, it's invisible. Please return the Commission's report to the Commission and we'll close the talks here.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0161par0171	The president has no right to return it.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0156par0172	So... Yes, the first word in favor of the procedural debate belongs to Mr. Shandir. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0162par0178	Mr. President, there's a beautiful saying in Turkish that the arrival of Thursday is on Wednesday. While we're talking about it, Mr. Commissioner leaned over to his laptop, ignored the speakers, on the Commission, but he needed to see today. Dear friends, like the Civil Code, we're discussing the Constitution of Congress. When we talked about it, we had to come up with a compromise before we got here. It is the responsibility of the ruling party group to negotiate, to insist on compromise. I mean, what's the use of fighting, tension, conflict, that kind of ground is being set up? I offer it to my people's discretion. We talked yesterday. This law is not to be brought up by the group's proposal, but by commission and the government's proposal, you can put a law on the line without waiting 48 hours, but you have ignored it. This is what you call the mind of the fingers. I mean, it's obvious what it's going to take to be stupid. We're all watching what it takes to get these fingers up and down. For God's sake, I mean, what if it had been brought in today, and it hadn't started yesterday, and we could have just started today? But you didn't. Now, here's the thing: Look, dear friends, let's not race each other's minds. The spirit of the law is as important as the word of the law, and the word of the soul is as important. Now, here, to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey... the Deputy Justice and Development Party Group Chairmans... have no right. Yes, members of the group are MPs, but the group's vice president is an institution, an institution defined in the Civil Code, an institution. That's why, as members of the group, you can't offer this law, if you give it to them, it's illegal. I told you yesterday, dear friends, if you change the law by staying within the law, it's legitimate, or it's illegal, it's illegal. Now, what you're doing here is, if you insist, you insist on illegality. We'll do the constitution, we'll compromise in the Constitution. But as the side that dynamites the settlement, it's the ruling party group, in its manner, unfortunately. That's why I'm repeating what I just said. A commissioner has no right to say that kind of thing to a party's deputy leader, the group's president, the group's president. I'm returning that promise to whoever said it. He who speaks the word must come back from this place, which is beyond his purpose... because we have always called him Hodja, but because of his unbecoming attitude to the teacher... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] At least we're upset and he should be ashamed. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0163par0187	Against Mr. Hamzacebi. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0164par0189	Mr. President, I've expressed it yesterday and today, and I'd like to say again: the political parties' group' deputy presidents cannot offer a change in the Civil Code as the group's vice president, and if they do, it would clearly violate Article 181 of the Civil Code. They can, of course, offer to change the Civil Code, as a member of parliament, putting aside the role of deputy leader of the group. Unfortunately, the Justice and Development Party's 5 Group Deputy Directors, and 5 others who have skipped it, will come up here and defend it because they missed it, just like the crisis they created in the Presidential Election Act. In the constitutional amendment at the time, the Justice and Development Party's legal establishment -- not the vice presidents -- has misled their own parties, their own party's establishments -- there is a mistake they have done here, which is definitely against Article 181, which is why it is not possible to discuss. The 181st article wanted to open the way for reconciliation in the Civil Code amendment, by giving lawmakers the right to change this right to the political party groups, by not giving them this right. He said, "Call for reconciliation." But since there is no consensus in the implementation of the Justice and Development Party in its culture, he wants to take away the opposition's limited rights of speech, which the opposition has used here due to parliamentary research proposals, because he cannot tolerate criticism from this platform, because he has no tolerance for criticism from it. It's as if this Parliament is not able to negotiate, as if it can't do so. He says, "I don't need compromise. I will not knock on your door for reconciliation." However, this Parliament, the previous Parliament, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, has provided a fine example of reconciliation. Look, there's a painting in front of me. Between January 11th and January 14th last year, he adopted the Turkish Trade Law and five laws within the Turkish Law on Debts in four days. The number of these five laws is 2,698. In four days, this Parliament has passed five laws of 2,698, a fine example of reconciliation, but this genius is not in your best interest, which now you want to come and take away the opposition's small rights to speak. The famous liberal philosopher Thomas Hobbes has a scale, a scale in the balance is not good because it can be broken at any moment, but if you place a great weight on one side, a smaller weight on the other, there is no balance, but it never breaks. You want such an imbalance. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0165par0194	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Canikli, please come in.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0166par0197	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Of course, you guys need to get up here and look back a little bit before you say some big words. So a comment from Article 181 that the members of the group will not be able to propose a change in the Civil Code has nothing to do with Article 181. Also, look, there's a lot of examples in the past, and I'm going to read you one.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0167par0199	Can the minister, the congressman, give it to you?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0166par0200	Under it, Mr Kemal Anadol, Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0167par0201	Can the minister, Mr. Canikli, give it to you?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0166par0202	There's been an offer to change the Civil Code with the signatures of four group vice presidents under it, and it's been accepted...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0167par0203	They did it wrong.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0166par0204	...no objections from the Republican People's Party or other parties, under which is the signature of the Republican People's Party Deputy Chairman, dear friends. So up until now, all Republican People's Party members of the group have made a mistake.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0167par0205	Wrong, wrong...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0166par0206	All Republican People's Party executives did it on the line.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0167par0207	Is the minister a minister?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0166par0208	It's always been a mistake, but right now, it's been discovered, it's been tried to fix.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0167par0209	No, because you're lowering the word of the opposition because you're lowering the voice of the opposition.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0166par0210	Look, dear friends, please, if there's any right criticism, it will be considered, of course, but these facts, the practice of this group, after the signature and application of the vice presidents of the Republican People's Party, the members of the group, are not really against the 181st Article of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0168par0211	It's a compromise, and we can change it by compromise.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0166par0212	See, the 181st article is very clearly only as a bill that prevents the proposals of the Civil Charter from coming as a bill, it's a math to him, and that's his speech, and that's his speech.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0169par0213	What do you think is the logic of this?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0166par0214	It says, look -- how do you get out of this sentence, I as an MP -- that the proposals for amendments to the Internal Charter can be made by lawmakers. That's the expression.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0169par0215	The Prime Minister is a member of parliament and the ministers are a member of parliament.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0170par0216	A bill, no offer, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0166par0217	So, guys, what are we? I'm not a congressman? So the fact that I'm Deputy Director of the Group rules out my being a congressman? (CHP and MHP rows) Can such a comment be made, dear friends? Please, I mean... when you make the comments, you really need to be more careful.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0171par0218	Then have the Minister sign it behind you. Have the Minister sign it as the Minister of Youth Sports.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0166par0219	Yeah, I understand that you're trying to stop it, and we're not saying anything, and we respect it, so we respect the attitude that is wrong with us, and we respect it. You're trying to block it, you're trying to block it. Over.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0171par0220	Wrong...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0166par0221	But while you're at it, please take a look at the Civil Code, the practices, even the practices of your own party. So let it be in accordance with the Civil Code, in order to block the campaigns, in order to block the Parliament.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0172par0222	You're the one who blocked the House, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0166par0223	And let not a critique be heard again, let there be no wrongful interpretation, and let there be no false accusation. If not, your method of appreciation, how you apply it, is none of our business, but everything here must act in accordance with the Civil Code. All of us, without exception, must act in accordance with the Civil Code with our speeches, our attitudes, our actions, and our own, first, especially ourselves. We must adhere to the provisions of the Civil Code. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0173par0226	You didn't even adhere to the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0174par0227	It's not right to give an example that all groups of members of the group have agreed to sign. It's signed by the entire group of vice presidents...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0175par0228	Mr. President, isn't that a violation of the Civil Code?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0176par0229	Four groups are being given to three groups, Mr. President, even worse.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0177par0230	Mr. Kaplan, may I present...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0178par0231	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we're negotiating the Civil Code talks, and this is the constitution of the House. Look, the government is sitting in the seat of Parliament, the Parliamentary Chair is sitting, so be careful. We're going to make the constitution of the House, and we're going to decide the laws of the future by election in the days after us. The government belongs to the nation unconditionally. The Constitution says six, right? This sovereignty cannot be handed over. It says in the 7th article. Well, in this case, in the face of this clarity, friends, a draft amendment was made here in 2001. Then the ruling party was the opposition. Look, then Ahmet Cemala, what does your Justice Commission President say now? "Fast living is dangerous living, " he says. The law of the law says......... I'm counting his words... let him go, Mr. Bulent Arinc is now Deputy Prime Minister. What does the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Bulent Arinc, say? You want to lower the voice of the opposition. The opposition is the indispensable of Parliament and democracy. It says, "There is nothing that can be done without opposition." It says, "There are much harsher words." There's no need for me to read them here one by one. You're making a ham hum sohorolop law, he says. In five minutes, Beşiktaş says. What's going on... no apocalypse, the congressman died here. Did you forget this quickly? Shall we read more? We'll talk one at a time, one at a time, one at a time, one at a time, one at a time. Memory, nothing's missing. We'll come up with the words you said when you went against what was done to you yesterday. This is against the Civil Code of 181, which is against 52. There's an offer, you didn't take it on the commission, you didn't take it off. In these circumstances, I protest with a black ribbon, you can't determine the will of the nation alone, you can't determine it alone. We won't let you know. We promise you this chair, we will not allow this Civil Code to be discussed here. We'll stand on this bench, and you can't do this Civil Code interview. It happens with compromise, it happens with the partnership of groups, it happens with democracy, it doesn't happen with your orders, it doesn't happen with your orders. We want you to know that we want you to act accordingly, and we demand that you be taken back.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0179par0237	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0180par0238	This isn't a fight.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0178par0239	We'll see... we'll see...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0179par0240	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0178par0241	We'll see... come and see... come and see your Civil Code. We'll see about that. Well, this Congress isn't your farm. It's nobody's father's farm.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0179par0243	Members of parliament, the difference between the bill and the proposal is that the bill comes from MPs from the government. The bill is signed by the Prime Minister and all ministers, and the group's presidency is an adjective for parliament, not the government, and there is no harm in the use of it in presenting the proposals to the Parliamentary Presidency. I'd like to bring something to your attention on this occasion. A change in the Civil Code is a delicate issue. A balance must be set between the government's desire to make a quick law and the ability of the opposition to control it. I hope both the power and the opposition will consider these issues during the talks. The commission report...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0181par0246	Mr. President... Mr. Group, since our Deputy President has made a rude and hurtful statement, according to the Civil Charter 160, the President of the Constitutional Commission has been charged with contempt...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0182par0248	No, sir, it's not like that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0181par0249	...he had a request.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0182par0250	Mr. President, if you look at the harsh and hurtful promise in the transcript, you'll see who said it.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0183par0251	No... it's a warning from me. We had that conversation.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0181par0252	You can evaluate it later. Mr. President, we are now discussing this report. This report can't be read because it's distributed. So this disseminated report, first of all, needs to reflect the views of the commission so the MPs can be informed. Otherwise, there won't be any reports since it's been said. Now, this report says that an offer from a member of parliament has been accepted, but there is nothing in the report that states that this has been accepted.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0184par0254	It's all in the subcommittee report.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0181par0255	Another MP says his opposition to the report, regarding the proposal, which is not in this report. So we can't discuss this report. This report is a report made at AKP headquarters. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is not a report where MPs demonstrate their will, it is a custom report. What part of this report will we discuss? So, Mr. President, in this regard, it's about a member of parliament that they've merged with, it says that the 12th article is accepted by our Commission. It says, "Where is it?" Show us.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0184par0257	It's got his signature on it, Mr. President, under it, signed by the Commission, mostly signed.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0181par0258	So there's no accepted text. This report cannot be discussed that way. One more thing... Mr. President, since we've discussed the report, it's clear and clear that this report must fully reflect its commission activities and its will. This report is not carefully prepared, it is done. In this regard, it is imperative that this report be extradited as the General Assembly of Turkey and ensure that the Commission conduct a healthier study.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0185par0260	Mr. President, you just read a text, we don't know what it is.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0186par0261	Wait a second... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0187par0263	Mr. President, the subcommittee report clearly states that the proposal has been considered, evaluated, undisputed. So it's been merged according to procedure, and it's been compiled into the report. There is no shortage at this point, Mr. President. However, the expression that this cannot be processed is not an accurate expression, it is not a legal expression, it does not have a residence.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0188par0264	No, sir, no!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0186par0265	The presidency doesn't have the authority to extradite.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0187par0266	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0188par0267	Mr. President, this is a non-report report, a non-report report. I mean, can we bring him in here and discuss this report because he's agreed to a position?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0189par0268	Mr. President, when do we start the negotiations? But, Mr. President, we need to be able to start the negotiations, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0190par0269	I hope we get started.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0188par0270	So this report, according to the Civil Code, is in Turkey's Grand National Assembly...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0189par0271	The opposition wants to keep the Grand National Assembly from working, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0188par0272	Would you excuse me for a moment, Mr. Mustafa?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0189par0273	But you're talking to one another.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0188par0274	Are you going to cut it here, too?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0189par0275	Talk to me when we get to the interviews.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0191par0276	Does the Commission wish to make a statement about this?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0188par0277	Mr. President, we exercise sovereignty on behalf of the Turkish nation. The government is the nation of unconditional and unconditional. As MPs, we use this will in the commission and in the General Assembly. No commissioner can ignore our will or ignore it. This means reducing the authority of lawmakers who exercise sovereignty. Lawmakers who exercise this authority have no will in the commission, how can a report that has no will be drawn up, how can it be discussed?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0192par0278	Mr. President, isn't the majority signature under the report of the people's will?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0188par0279	No, no... it's not a commission report.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0192par0280	So what's his will for the people, Mr. President, is his will for the majority, is that understanding? Would such understanding fit into democracy?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0193par0281	Yeah, it's all in the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0188par0282	Mr. President, would there be any such thing as not writing the words of the opposition or others here today? No. So I'm saying that the MPs' will is not reflected in the Commission, so there's no way to discuss this commission report.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0193par0283	Okay, we get it.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0194par0284	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0193par0285	The commission report was printed and distributed with 156 rows. Members of parliament, this proposal will be considered as the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the proposal has been completed with all the talks...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0195par0287	Mr. President, no, you can't.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0196par0288	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0193par0289	...will be discussed in sections after the transfer to their material, and the clauses in the sections will be voted separately.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0195par0291	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0196par0292	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit03spe0193par0293	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger. I'd like to invite the members of the group to the rear.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0193par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 59th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Interior Charter Proposal 156 and the Constitutional Commission Report. Commission? Here. Representative to the presidency? Here.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0197par0005	Mr. President, there is no proper report. Sir, Mr. President, look, our Constitution...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0198par0006	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0193par0007	I'll take care of you, too, just a minute.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0197par0008	Article 38 of the Civil Code states that the Commission is obliged to first examine whether the bill or proposals referred to to them are contrary to the text and the spirit of the Constitution. In this report, there is not one assessment of whether the amendment to the Civil Code is in accordance with the Constitution. How are we supposed to accept this report? Mr. President, I'm asking you, if the Speaker of the House brought in this match here with the Beşikstone and reported it, will we discuss it as well? Is that even possible?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0199par0010	Mr. President, if the Commission had found it unconstitutional, it wouldn't have discussed it anyway.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0197par0011	So he didn't do his constitutional duty, he didn't do his duty with the Civil Code. Therefore, with the necessary warning on this issue, let the Commission film this and therefore do so in accordance with the procedure. There's no judgment here. Can you tell me what this Civil Code is for? If he's not going to sleep, what's the Civil Code for?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0199par0012	Mr. President, if there is a breach of the Constitution, the Commission will consider it and will not discuss it, sir. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0197par0013	Sir, no. That's the commission of the commissions, this mission is not done, it's not done.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0200par0014	Mr. Card...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0201par0015	Mr. President, it seems you've assessed and decided against the Civil Code. Next to him is a clear violation of Article 38 of the Civil Code. Although we insisted on bringing it up in the Commission, there was no discussion about it. In that sense, we would like to discuss this issue in the General Assembly and present it to the General Assembly's assessment.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0200par0016	You want to start a formal debate?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0201par0017	Yes, according to Article 38.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0202par0018	No, the procedure depends on what, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0200par0019	In favor, against?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0203par0020	Mr. President, in favor.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0202par0021	In favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0200par0022	Now, Mr. Card, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Elitaş or Mr. Canicli? We'll give each group one, that's what happened.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0202par0024	This is Mr. President, over.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0200par0025	Mr. Canikli, Mr. Vural... Now, is Mr. Vural against or against?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0204par0027	Against you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0200par0028	Mr. Card is against you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0205par0029	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0200par0030	Mr. Kaplan and Mr. Canikli are falling in favor, so naturally, you'll have to speak against it.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0206par0031	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0207par0032	Mr. President, Mr. President, under Article 68 of the Civil Code, if there's a fight and noise in the General Assembly, the President will recess once and for all if the fighting and noise continue. Please, the House isn't working. Don't bring this coven to so much fighting and noise.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0208par0033	It didn't stop from fighting.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0209par0034	No fighting yet.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0207par0035	Assembly of neutral governance, sir, act objectively, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0209par0036	Come on, Mr. Young, Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0207par0037	So the Civil Code had a clear ruling, and yesterday you neglected Article 52, and today you cannot neglect Article 68.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0209par0038	Okay, okay, I don't mind.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0207par0039	Look, you'll be responsible for what happens next. Is that possible, sir? This House hasn't spoken in two hours. So you have to shut down the merger.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0209par0040	All right.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0207par0041	Take a break at once like this, will you? We're MPs, not toys, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0209par0043	The proposal was launched due to a violation of the Constitution. The first word against him belongs to Mr. Attila Kart. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0210par0048	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, at the point of violation of the Civil Code, you are continuing your misdeeds as the Presidential Court at the point of violation of the Constitution. Dear lawmakers, see, the 175th Article of the Constitution and the 181st Article of the Civil Charter of the Constitution are the articles that complement each other, the articles that are parallel to each other. It's a whole substance. The basic joke in both articles, my dear friends, is that as it is known, the Parliamentary Civil Charter is the constitution of this Parliament, which regulates the rules of work. If the Constitution is an arrangement that must be made with a social agreement, with a contract, then the Parliamentary Civil Charter will have to be made with a dialogue, with a compromise in that sense. In both regulations, the constitution maker voiced the issue of an arrangement without the imposition of political party groups, in agreement, collaboratively and in response to the need. So the procedures and foundations of the Constitution are also involved in the Civil Charter. But what do we see here? In all phases, the five-group vice presidents of the Justice and Development Party have been cited, stressing a proposal. What does that mean? It's a group offer, it's the group's will, it's not the MP's will. Of course, as lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party, you could have given one of you, three of you, four of you as MPs. But what are you all doing? Five group vice presidents bring such an offer, stating their position as the group's acting president, their status in particular. It's not really an offer, it's a technical design. The amendments of the Constitution, if the bill is not in question, will not be involved in the amendments to the Civil Code. You can call it a formal offer here, but the bottom line is, the AKP Group has a bill that is essentially driven by a cognitive understanding. Mr. President, in this respect, there is a bill that clearly violates Article 38 of the Civil Code. At this point, you have to act on the basis of your duties and responsibilities as the Presidential Court, and you have to decide. Once again, we feel the need to express it at this stage, and we salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0211par0056	Thank you, Mr. Card. Lehte, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0212par0059	Mr. President, it is imperative that the Council of Interior be in accordance with the Constitution, especially in the Constitutional Commission, that this be discussed first, and that this be mentioned in the report. Now, this isn't done, it's not in the report, there's no 181, there's no 52. Five vice presidents, five of them, all in one place, they signed a signature. Look, listen to these words, friends, a number of changes in which the opposition parties or parliament are thought to be an obstacle to the work of the opposition are particularly involved in this proposal. There's always power in democracies, but it's the opposition that counts. What makes that regime democratic is the opposition, the public display of the rights of the opposition, and the protection of those rights; otherwise the totalitarian regimes don't have a problem with power, but where the opposition is, what the possibilities are, we need to look at them. I'm going to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Disregarding this right is not a joy seen in democratic countries around the world. In the United States, it is even possible to talk for hours with an application called "philibuster" in the United States, but no member of the House of Representatives or senator can think of much of that right. Now, I'm asking you: this is the words of your current Deputy Prime Minister, Bulent Arinc, in 2001, on behalf of your party's group. What happened to you? Where did you come from in nine years? Where did you wind up? You don't know the Constitution. You don't know the law. You don't know the Civil Code. You don't deserve it. You don't know the law. You don't know justice. You don't know human rights. You don't know the law. You don't know God, it's gone...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0213par0064	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0212par0065	You do not know God. Because that faith of yours, that belief of yours, is persecution. Snap out of it!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0214par0066	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0213par0067	Mr. President, please, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0214par0068	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0215par0069	This House is not your farm. This is the House of the People. The will of the people is here. In the name of the people, we will speak on this stand. No one can silence people's will on this stand.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0213par0070	Mr. President, the speakers invite you to comply with the Civil Code. Please notify the speaker of Article 67 of the Civil Code, Mr. President. Sir, you need to warn him according to Article 67.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0214par0071	I did, Mr. Elitaş. I did, Mr. Elitaş, but he can't hear.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0215par0072	Look, what did you say? See? Takri is like Sakun. This is the Law. This Law is not like Takriri muzun, it is like the laws of Mussolini the Fascist. (CHEERING) That's what I'm saying. You will not make us accept the laws of Mussolini the Fascist.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0214par0073	Yes, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0216par0074	Mr. President, all the oratories here are speaking to themselves in the Civil Code. But the Internal Charter 67 is clear and clear. The speaker has to watch his language. And that's your job to invite me to come out with you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0214par0075	I told him, but he didn't hear Mr. Orator or anyone else in that noise.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0216par0076	Mr. President, but not by saying it, if you have to.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0217par0077	Mr. President, I read it in the language of your own friends.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0214par0078	Anyway... yeah, it's in the transcripts that I said, but no one heard it in that noise.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0216par0079	But, sir, you can stop talking.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0218par0080	Sir, is he probably doing something about your attitude? If he warns, he will make demands according to the regulations of the Civil Code. You don't have to talk in there, Deputy Speaker of the House.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0216par0081	We don't need your mind.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0218par0082	You're the mouth-to-mouth officer? Are you his officer? Come on, get your heart out and ask for a discussion!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0216par0083	We know what the Civil Code is.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0219par0084	Against Mr. Oktay Vural, MP of İzmir. Here you go. Are you his lawyer?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0220par0087	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0221par0088	He's got you suspended from custody. He kicked you out. He gives it to everyone, he doesn't give it to you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0219par0089	Mr. Elitaş, I believe that all lawmakers are my lawyers, so don't. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0222par0092	Elistash, come out properly, say...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0223par0093	I'm a man, man!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0222par0094	I want you to say something to the President of the Parliament. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0223par0095	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0222par0096	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0223par0097	Mr. President, invite him to speak properly.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0222par0098	Sit the fuck down!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0223par0100	Invite him to speak properly! Invite him to speak properly!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0222par0101	I mean, look, I'm, we're here to...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0223par0102	Mr. President, he has to speak properly there!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0222par0103	I'm talking like you!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0223par0104	Then you sound like a man!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0224par0105	Please...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0222par0106	I sound like you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0224par0107	Please...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0225par0108	Now you're a man!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0222par0109	I'm talking like you!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0225par0110	Now you're a man!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0226par0111	I mean, at the beginning of the interview, I told you all...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0222par0112	Don't jump, sit down! Sit down! Don't jump, don't jump! Sit down! Don't jump, don't jump! Sit down, sit down! Now, you're Group President Veki. What are you saying to the Deputy Speaker? If you don't like your attitude, you'll come out and you'll say, "I want a word about your attitude." Why didn't you cut it off?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0227par0114	We always have these conversations.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0222par0115	You can't say that, you're talking to the Deputy Speaker!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0228par0116	Something you've never done!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0222par0117	Mr. President, we're here now to discuss a report. Look, one, in this report, our lawmakers, their sovereignty is not fully reflected. An MP's proposal is unknown; you've left the perpetrators unknown, and the MPs' motions are unknown. The motions are unknown. Can such a will be lost in the commission? So, given another aspect, Mr. President, I'm asking the Commission here, to look at it, did the Constitutional Commission, according to the Civil Charter 38, examine whether the Constitution was in violation of the text and the spirit of the Constitution?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0229par0118	It's unclear.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0230par0119	I'll tell him.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0222par0120	It's loaded. It says.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0230par0121	I'm sure he did. Mr. President, otherwise he would refuse.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0231par0122	Where's it written?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0222par0123	Now, if it's not clear here that a commission is responsible, why is this Civil Code written? I'm asking. I mean, with the majority of fingers? In that respect, Mr. President, what needs to be done is to end these negotiations on this matter. It's about these negotiations, and I'm already -- I'm about to -- I'm going to -- I'm going to talk about that and I'm going to bring up the Deputy Speaker's position in a moment. There, I will also speak to you the statements of Mr. Mehmet Sağtah, but I would like to read to you, my dear President, that the triumph of the great revolutions will become a symbolic will, a symbol of the will to make Kuva a member of the nation. Because of the commissions, of course, the opposition's arms, his fingers are locked, their voices are locked, and the government has no say in this matter, the motion, the negotiations and so forth... there's no way to call it a democratic Parliament. Dear friends, this is the Order that destroys the opposition. The regime may be called communism, the regime may be called fascism; but there are elements that may be democratic, but if you, with this imposition, cannot see the Turkish Parliament as democratic parliament... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Because it is the opposition, because it is the seat of the people's will, because you eliminate the people's enlightenment, the possibility of political enlightenment, and you're being dynamited. Do you know who said those words? President of the Justice Commission Ahmet Sapima.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0232par0130	He told you that, to you.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0233par0131	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0232par0132	Who did he say that to? Who did he tell that to? Who did he say that to?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0234par0133	Who's democracy, who's freedom of opinion, who the hell are you! What do you know about democracy? What do you know about Parliament, national will?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0233par0134	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0234par0135	In that respect, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0235par0136	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0234par0137	Mr. President, this is a very serious matter. It is not possible for the commission to bring this report here and discuss it with an imposition. We will not submit to such a blow, the coup of September 12th, or the coup of the AKP. So, pull up the Civil Code amendment.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0236par0139	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0235par0140	When the preacher spoke on the stand, he insulted me by mentioning my name, so if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0237par0141	Read from the transcripts, sir, there is no such insult.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0236par0142	If you'd like, Mr. Canikli...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0235par0143	Mr. President, he's...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0236par0144	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0235par0148	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0238par0149	Mr. President, what did you promise me?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0236par0150	I gave it to him without teasing him.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0235par0151	Don't make fun of me. You'd understand if you listened.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0238par0152	What did I pick on you about?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0236par0153	I promised you I wouldn't pick on you because you used it by name.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0238par0154	Sir?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0236par0155	I promised you no bullying, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0238par0156	What did I pick on you about?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0236par0157	You had a manly, manless speech, and I gave it to you about him.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0238par0158	On a matter of manliness, yes.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0236par0159	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0239par0160	Mr. President, the speakers here need to know where they're going with this. Mr. Group Vice President's first sentence in his speech: How dare you lecture the Deputy Speaker of Parliament?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0240par0161	Right.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0239par0162	If you're a man, if you're a man, you're a man. And I said, Mr. President, in accordance with Article 67 of the Civil Code, invite him to speak in a clean manner. Now, I speak like you. He said. Right, before that, you were talking differently, and when you started talking like me, you started talking like a man.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0241par0164	It's hard to tell if he's got a permanent one or if you've got a permanent one.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0239par0165	And it's interesting, and we say here, in the squares, in some places, we say, "Is theCHP caught in the tail of the MPP, or is it on his tail?"
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0242par0167	Let him take it back and take it back, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0243par0168	Watch your mouth! Mr. President, that's no way to talk.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0244par0170	Here's the Republican and National Movement Party Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0245par0172	You take it back, you take it back!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0243par0173	Don't be rude! You dirty man!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0246par0174	Take it back, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0247par0175	Did we hit a nerve? Wait a minute... wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0248par0176	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0247par0177	Who went after whom?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0248par0179	Mr. Elitaş...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0247par0180	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0249par0181	Head of Fitness, you will take it back!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0248par0182	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0249par0183	You will be the tail of the PKK!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0250par0184	Don't try, don't try!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0251par0185	I can see you have nothing more to say.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0250par0186	Today this Civil Code will be spoken, and today this Civil Code will be spoken.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit04spe0252par0187	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0252par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 59th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. 156 rows...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0253par0003	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0254par0004	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0255par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0256par0006	Shall I read this? So I'll read it, and then it's done.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0257par0008	He'll have to read it before he can open the session, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0258par0009	We're not on the tail of America, Mr. President. Let those who are on the tail of America come to us. Let those who follow the line of America come before us.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0259par0010	Mr. President, Mr. Elitaş, who used a word in an incomplete session to inform our group's spokesman, has to take back that promise or apologize.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0260par0011	Mr. President, open a session. Mr. President, open the session, sir. The hearing is not open at this time, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0259par0012	It is not appropriate for you to continue the session without providing it.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0261par0013	Mr. President, open a hearing, and then listen, sir, it's not in session yet.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0262par0014	Now, I'll open it, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0263par0015	What are you talking about? You do it all the time! You always talk so hard, you make these people hit each other!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0264par0016	No, they don't run the House, Mr. President. They don't run the coven, they do it on purpose.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0265par0017	That's your intention, that's your intention!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0266par0018	This Parliament will not accept American tailmen!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0267par0019	All right.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0268par0020	He's making people mad at each other! Every time he comes out, there's always temptation, mischief!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0269par0021	Sir, Mr. President, this Parliament cannot work according to Article 68. Sir, close the merger, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0268par0022	Mr. President, now, what an insult he can make!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0270par0023	So maybe he'll apologize.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0268par0024	Sir, I'd like to apologize... for what it's worth, to punish him or to warn him.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0271par0026	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0270par0027	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0271par0028	Now, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, Deputy Director of Justice and Development Party, is leaving today, Mr. Lamb, Mr. Elitaş. I believe the terminology of these two distinguished MPs of the Justice and Development Party has no other word, except their own creativity. Now, this is a separate issue of evaluation, there is an insult, but according to Article 68 of the Civil Code, you had to close the session twice, twice.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0272par0029	Why did you shut it down? It's the noise.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0271par0030	According to Article 68, the continuation of this meeting is not possible. The apology of Mr. Elitaş is a separate joy, it will be provided, it must be provided, but the continuation of the session is not possible according to Article 68. As a neutral acting Speaker, you must close this session as a continuation of the practices we have so far admired and admired, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0273par0031	Mr. President, they are persistently, persistently trying to shut down the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is the will of the nation, trying to shut it down. Mr. President, this is the People's Assembly, where the people's will is granted.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0272par0032	You're the one who did it, you're the one who attacked!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0273par0033	Let's talk, talk about everything, discuss it, consider it. But the National Assembly is persistently...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0272par0034	Mr. President, they're the ones who attack, they're the ones who provoke, they're the ones who insult, they're the ones who get up and talk like olive oil!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0274par0035	You're the one yelling! Is anyone else yelling?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0273par0036	Let's talk about everything, if there's an insult. Let's make the most of it. Let's talk. But why are you so persistently trying to shut it down? If there's a mistake, let's correct it.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0272par0037	So it's not your Group Vice President who's picking on you?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0273par0038	Mr. Vural, let's correct any mistakes. Let's talk, let's fix it. This isn't about shutting down the House, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0275par0040	Every time he talks, he provokes.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0276par0041	According to the Civil Charter 68, the working order is not possible to continue. We demand that the session be closed so that we don't cause worse incidents.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0277par0042	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you'd be so kind as to take your seats...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0278par0043	Did we say something to your group? Did we say something to you?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0279par0044	Let's correct the mistake, Mr. Vural. We'll fix it. I say. Let's talk.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0278par0045	Your vice president of the group is attacking, insulting...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0279par0046	It's fixed, everything's fixed. But he'll do it by talking.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0278par0047	You attack, you insult, and then you accuse us.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0280par0048	He's always insulting our group. You're always insulting me.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0281par0049	Civil Code 68 is clear. The failure to maintain working order...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0282par0050	I know. Mr. Kaplan, what do you say?
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0283par0052	Civil Code 68 is clear, the last joke...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0284par0053	Mr. President, look, the majority party, they're teasing us, they're insulting us, they're blaming us! Oh, my God! I swear to God!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0285par0054	They're the ones who attacked, they do everything! He's swearing, he's sitting there.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0286par0055	Mr. President, there's no way to proceed, sir. According to Article 68, it must be closed.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0287par0056	Mr. President, the President of the Commission is insulting, the Group is insulting the Vice President...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0288par0057	Then he gets up and attacks us.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0287par0058	We've never-- I mean, it's not something to put up with. First of all, this offer needs to be withdrawn.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0288par0059	If you love your God! They're both criminals and powerful.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0289par0060	And they come in here swearing.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0290par0061	Mr. President, I propose that the merger be closed. It's not to stop the House, it's to protect the House's dignity, it's to protect its well-being. Otherwise, I'm worried there'll be worse trouble here if we insist.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0288par0062	Mr. President, the purpose is clear. While the ruling party lowers the voice of the opposition with the majority of fingers, they want to create tensions here with provocation, provocation, trial, corruption, and place responsibility on the opposition.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0291par0063	Mr. President, look, this Grand National Assembly of Turkey hasn't even closed in the war years, it hasn't been closed. Everything here is people's will. It's against the will of the people, Mr. President. I mean, people want their will shut down, people want their will destroyed.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0292par0065	Even during the war, this National Assembly has not kept the opposition quiet.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0291par0066	You can't allow that, Mr. President. This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. People voted for us to protect their own interests here, they supported us.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0292par0067	Even during the war, the voice of opposition has not been silenced. Even during the years of the war, the sound of the cannon was heard in Polat, and there was opposition, and he spoke out of it.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0291par0068	How does a political party in the interest want the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to be shut down? Is that possible, Mr. President? This is the will of the nation, this is the House of the People. No one closes the House of People.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0292par0069	Even as the cannons were heard in Polatlı, the opposition spoke here.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0293par0070	Civil Charter 68 will have to be implemented.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0294par0071	The Civil Code must be closed according to 68.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0295par0072	If it were you, you'd be American will.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0296par0073	You're American or something!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0297par0074	It's obvious who's taking orders from America!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0296par0075	Shame on you, you don't run the House.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0298par0076	Where the hell are you in Libya, Syria, Iraq, Iran? Where are you? Thousands of Muslims are being raped, where are you? Speech!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0299par0077	You've got a lot of people lined up. He's gonna come out and apologize.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0300par0078	Congressmans, please sit down. Please...
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0299par0080	We'll never sit down, sorry!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0301par0081	He'll come out and apologize! None of us will.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0302par0082	They'll apologize!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0303par0083	I propose that Elitas be condemned. They're gonna attack us!
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0301par0084	In this House, we face 50 schemes to silence the opposition. We're not going to pay for the entribution, Mr. President, we're not going to pay for the plot.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0304par0085	They're gonna withdraw this offer, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-02-01sit05spe0305par0086	Since the noise and the fighting continue, I'm shutting down the merger according to Article 68. [[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] In accordance with the decision taken, it is Thursday (February 2nd 2012) that we discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of talks on whether or not the motion to ask for a motion on Mr. Sadullah Ergin will be taken into consideration. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
