tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 87th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A nickel mine has been mined in the forest area of Çiçı Mountain, 10 km north of the district of Turgutlu, Manisa Province. In the area of Çi Mt., 12.5 million m2 areas are used to extract, decouple and enrich them using sulfuric acid in the open form of lychee. Nowhere in the world today is an open-liquor nickel mine. Only 1/200 of the total land was used for testing production in the region, so many trees were cut down and damaged the forest area. Over 200,000 trees are expected to be cut down during the operation. That means the forest area in the area is completely destroyed. Due to the deforestation of trees in the region and decomposition of streambeds, erosion has increased, and some villages have suffered floods, even though they have never been seen before. There have also been complaints about the negativity caused by sulfuric acid used to remove the nickel mine. South of Mount Çi is the Gediz River and Basin, one of the most important agricultural areas in the world and Turkey. The Gediz River has been taken into international protection, as well as in the additions of the Convention on International Responsive Waterfields (RAMSAR) where Turkey is on the side. However, using sulfuric acid, the open licature has continued to mine nickels. The region's most important water basin, Gediz River, passes very close to Mount Çiç, and the minefield. So underground and above ground water resources and natural resources will be negatively affected. When the mine, which is set to last 10 years in its project, is exhausted, our Turgutlu district center, which has a population of over 100,000, will suffer substantially from the pollution of the environment, along with forest and agricultural areas in the region. There are Musulcani, Akköy, Çampınar, Izzettin, Jacobs, Temrek and Sarıbey villages in the Turgutlu Çaldağ region, where the people provide for themselves from agriculture and forestry. The region's citizens are sensitive to the issue in order not to darken their future and oppose the creation of nickel mines to take care of its forest areas and its farmlands and villages and ask that the country not be allowed to operate in order to prevent the country's biggest environmental disaster. We propose that the operation, which will be built to create nickel mines in the Turgutlu Sil Mountain region, and protect the standards of living and health of the surrounding villages, and to investigate the measures, to determine the effects of its efficiency analysis on forests and agricultural land, to determine the effects of sulfuric acids, subterranean and aboveground water sources, the pollutants of agriculture and environmental villages, and to open up the Constitution's 104th and 105th substances, and to identify the measures of the environment's living standards and health, to determine the problems that will arise when the business is closed, to determine the solution proposals of the Constitution. [[Manisa]] [[Ankara]] 3) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 4) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] 6) Cervix of Love [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] [[Inconceived]] 15) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Tunceli]] [[Manisa]] 19) Thanksgiving Güldal Mumcu [[İzmir]] [[Denizli]] 21) Bedii Suheyl Batum [[Eskişehir]] 22) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Gediz River is one of the great and most important rivers in our country. The Gediz River, which began in the southeast part of Gediz district and poured into the Gulf of Izmir, contributes significantly to agricultural production, economic and level of development. The Gediz River, which is vital to the region, is highly contaminated, along with the erratic industrial and urban development of the 1980s. The Gediz River, which is so important to our country, has been taken into international protection, including in the additions of Turkey's International Responsive Waterfields (RAMSAR). The footman, Manisa, is a major settlement in the Gediz Basin, which enters the provinces of Izmir. Manisa Turgutlu, Salihli, Ahmetli, Alaşehir, Demirci, Gediz, Kemalpaşa, Foça, and Menemen are some of the settlements. There are still no decontamination facilities or capacity in districts with populations of over 100,000. Despite pollution, municipalities do not allocate funds for the treatment plant. The government doesn't have any sanctions. The settlements and industrial institutions in the Gediz Basin are the main reason for the pollution of the Gediz River. The pollution of the river has become threatening because industrial and domestic waste has been disposed of without decontamination. By investigating the reasons for the pollution of the Gediz River, we propose and propose that a Parliamentary Research be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to ensure national and local co-ordination of the solution pathways, to clear Gediz of harmful and dangerous waste and identify those responsible for contamination. [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] [[Inconceived]] [[Ankara]] 5) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 6) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] 8) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] 14) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Tunceli]] [[Manisa]] 18) Thanksgiving Güldal Mumcu [[İzmir]] [[Denizli]] 20) Bedii Suheyl Batum [[Eskişehir]] 21) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the 1970s, Turkey has made significant breakthroughs in the white meat industry and has ranked top of the world's rankings. In the 1970s, family business was dominated by limited capacity, expensive production, replaced by structural change in the 1980s, modern, integrated facilities and the contracted production model, world standards were adopted in the 1990s, and production continued to increase steadily by the 2000s. In recent years, the rising price of red meat, such as the reduction of public buying power due to economic crises, has generally highlighted white meat, especially chicken production and consumption. White meat production has played a very important role in meeting the public's animal protein needs in recent years. This role is expected to increase in years to come. Chickening within the white meat industry is a strategic product for Turkey, which has a very positive impact on expectations in the sector. In our country today, the production of chicken eggs has reached 1,07 billion chickens, 84 million slaughtered chickens, 135, 953 tonnes of chicken meat. About 85% of the produced white meat is performed in very modern facilities, and most of the facilities are much more modern than those in developed countries. The industry, which reaches around $3 billion of annual turnovers, faces a number of problems -- producers, bait, medicine, side-industrial, vendors, tradesmen, shipping, marketing staff -- that is, up to two and a half million people. One of the most important problems in the white meat industry is external addiction. The industry is dependent on animal material, bait, vaccines, and many issues. Feral chicks come from abroad. Competitiveness with the United States and EU countries, which provide the food materials and breeding needs of a sector that is so dependent on the outside, is weak. The economic crises, the surplus of production, the fluctuations caused by the increasing price of raw materials due to courtship fluctuations are another problem. Another very important problem with the industry is the unlicensed henhouses. In our country, about 85 percent of the henhouses serve with high quality, but are not registered. Since there are no building licenses, many henhouses are in danger of being shut down. It is estimated that there are 3209 clusters in Bolu County, which meets one-third of the production across the country, with no building licenses, and that number is estimated to be around 6,500-7000 with undetectables. The license issue in the sector has been unresolved for years and has come to date. This sector provides jobs for 10,000 people directly in Bolu Province alone. In our country, 35 percent of its population live in rural areas, where most of the rural population is unemployed or without a secret job, it is important to create chicken farming jobs. In all these issues, policies aimed at the well-known and resolving of the sector's problems need to be developed. For this purpose; I respectfully present the opening of Parliamental Research under Articles 98 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to establish economic policies that could be taken in order to end the problems of the white meat industry and in particular the problems of chickenism, to bring an end to the suffering and to lead to the development of the sector. [[Bolu]] [[Ankara]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 6) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 7) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[İstanbul]] [[Army]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] 14) Osman Faruk Logoglu [[Adana]] [[Adana]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Sakarya]] 19) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Amasya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Artvin]] 26) Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan [[Ankara]] 27) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. There's a motion to withdraw a motion for a gene question, and I'm going to read it: 30.03.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is dated 29.03.2012 and 85 of the Grand National Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We withdraw the primary Gensoru Proposal (11/10) of Interior Minister İdris Naim Şahin (11/10) read in the Union. For your information. The gene motion has been returned and has been taken off the agenda. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation headed by Turkey's Grand National Assembly Foreign Affairs Commission President Volcano Bozır is scheduled to participate in the Turkish-Arab Parliamentary Dialogue Fourth Tour Talks, which will be held in Cairo on 16 April 2012. Attendance of this meeting is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on Organising Foreign Relations of the 3620 Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Cemil Cicek, is the head of the Hungarian National Assembly, Mr. Dr. The Law on International Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990, and 3620, on the issue of an official visit to Hungary to respond to Laszlo Köver's invitations. In accordance with the clause, it is submitted to the approval of the General Assembly. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Your Honor, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0002par0212	Thank you very much, my dear President. As the National Movement Party Group, I wish all of our children success tomorrow's college exam, and I ask God for clarity of mind, and I ask his parents for patience. I hope everyone will be happy with the results of this test. Also, today is the Holocaust Day of March 31st against the Turks of Earth, Azerbaijan. I also condemn the genocide of the Turks with violence and hatred all over the world, and ask for the mercy of our brothers and sisters, who have died in this genocide. And thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0003par0216	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Mr. Slim, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0004par0219	Thank you, Mr. President. And we, the Republican People's Party Group, wish our young people the best of all who are about to take the university exam. Tomorrow is a big day for them, a big day for their families, a fateful day, but it's not everything, I want our young people to think that way. I wish them all the best as someone who has prepared 16 years of youth for the university exam and as Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0003par0221	Thank you, Mr. Slim. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0005par0224	Thank you, Mr. President. Tomorrow, about 1,900,000 young people will take their college exams, and we wish them all the best. We wish, we hope, that one day they'll survive this test race, because we're still living in Turkey, where millions are in the exam race. We wish them all the best. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0006par0227	Thank you. Mr. Ünal, please.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0007par0230	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, our children will take the university exam tomorrow. We, the AK PARTY Group, wish our young people clarity and success. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0006par0232	Thank you. Mr. Right, is your request relevant?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0008par0234	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0006par0235	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0008par0237	Thank you, Mr. President. And I wish all of our students and their families the best of luck tomorrow, and I wish them patience. Hopefully, everyone gets tested the way they want and gets into their school. Of course, I'd like to say that it's probably time for college without exams. Hopefully, she'll be in college by next semester without a test. Besides, it's March 31st, Azerbaijan Genocide Day. We must always express the righteous struggle of the Turks of Azerbaijan. Currently, most of Azerbaijan's territory is occupied by Armenia. Hopefully, we'll all see the days when the occupations are over, the massacres are over, and the Turks of Azerbaijan are back on their own territory. Thank you for your promise, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0009par0242	Thank you. Congressmans, under the decision taken, we are moving on to the special agenda's part of the agenda. We are starting talks on the opening of a gene question about Youth and Sports Minister Suat Kılıç (11/8) for the alleged abuse of public officials, where Ankara MP Levent Gök and 22 lawmakers used their political influence to gain and gain a runt, thus exploiting their position (11/8). Government? He's in position. I'm not having the motion re-readed because it's already been printed and distributed and read in the 83rd edition of the General Assembly, dated 27/3/2012. Members of parliament, under Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the Council of Ministers, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a prime minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers will be promised in this meeting. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motionr, 20 minutes for the group and the government. Now, I'm reading the names of the members who have been mentioned: Proposed owner Hasan Ören, Manisa MP; on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Levent Gök, Ankara MP; on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP. The first word belongs to Hasan Koren. Here you go, Mr. Kören. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0010par0257	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have a ten-minute speech on behalf of my motion to address the minister of sports. Now, it's really hard to accuse a minister of that, to accuse a minister of a crime if he doesn't have the base, if he doesn't have the documents, if he doesn't have the right to lie in our religion and in politics, there has to be a great weakness in people. But I do know that I'm about to tell you what Mr. Minister did in his relationship with the Turgutian City during his undergraduate period about the friendship bonds of that day. My other friend will tell me what happened during the semester. Apprentice period, phalanx, mastery period, probably three to five months from now. My dear friends, when our Minister makes a statement, he says one word in three or four positions and has a good conversation, and he talks a lot about ethics. Here's what happened in 2004... I have two questions for the Minister. Of course, with the answers to these two questions, if he convinces our ministers and you and us or says he didn't do it in exchange for these two questions, it is necessary for me to be punished as Hasan Koren, who accuses him of this crime. Just as we're demanding that Mr. Secretary be taken down by his client, when we give him false information, we need to face a criminal action in return. And I'm saying that I'm never going to be on this stand again until the end of the semester, and I'm going to quit being a congressman at the end of the semester, and I'm never going to be interested in politics. But you, members of the Justice and Development Party on the General Assembly, if you agree, I'm prepared to tender my resignation. My dear friends, in the time of our Minister's apprentice, when he was a court clerk -- he had records here, so I'll start reading right away -- the old license plate was 06 AK 755, and the Volkswagen Transporter TDI received a short TDI vehicle, zero kilometers. He took this vehicle to Shushmaz....... and he had it built the way he wanted it to be in the shop and used it in the 2004 local elections in Samsun. The vehicle was sold to the Burgutlu municipality after the local elections. There's so much about Turgutlu that I'll come to him from this bench later. Turgutlu and Izmir are 50 kilometers and 40 kilometers. There are 50 inspectors at Izmir Metropolitan Municipality, but two of them don't want to come and see what's going on. If they came to the City of Turgutlu -- and I'll tell you about it from this platform -- they come out with their hands and feet dirty, one thing, but our Minister sold his car to a mayor's office, sold his private vehicle. It's not ethical for the mayor to buy a car from a city and mayor's deputy, a court clerk, who can sell it to the mayor, the mayor can buy it, but it's not ethical for him to buy a car from a member of parliament whose money is entrusted to the entire community. That's problem number one. Have you sold the car that I've been counting on to the Turtle City Hall? It's unethical. Second, he may, but while he's selling it, in a certain way, he's willing to give up a $40,000 car, $45,000, to help out, for $30,000, for $20,000, for $15,000, that's possible, but our Minister didn't prefer it. It's all here, so I can get the information to him. On that day, in 2004, the price of a zero - mile car is between $37,000 and $40,000. If they're going to make us a gesture in this, it's going to be, like, a billion drops. For $39,000, I've been offered the exact same car from the Volkswagen dealership in Ankara. I want this car as you went to the same place that our Minister made it... as you did to our Minister... which means there is no word on that day, just as you did in the car of our MP Suat Kılıç. So if you put another $5,000 on a $39,000 car, that's $44,000. But I know -- I've had tens of thousands of cars -- and if there's a zero-mile drive that you're costing 44,000 lira, and the car is on sale the next day, it's at least 10 percent and 20 percent. Is that right, fellas?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0011par0263	Wrong, 20 percent won't fall.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0010par0264	Wrong... now our Deputy Director of the Group says it's wrong. I guess he's got a car he's selling to a city hall! I don't know about that.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0011par0265	You've already started slandering me.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0012par0266	Dear Elitaş, please, let's not make promises, let's listen to the preacher.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0010par0267	But no matter where it is, if you take a car and you put it on top of you, and you take it on you, even if you drive it for a day, you can't sell it for the price you buy the next day. You sell it down, you can't sell it up.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0011par0268	Then they're ripping you off.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0010par0269	Now what? The car, which cost $44,000, was sold to the Turgutian municipality for $49,000 in friendly sergeant relations. There's also what bank he's being paid from. My dear friends, if my information is wrong, if there's a problem with this information, I'm prepared to take my own punishment. You guys help, we'll sign here before the end of the semester, and we'll finish. I've been doing politics with the Minister for thirty years, and I've been a member of the legislature for two semesters. In the past period, our Minister was the Speaker here. There's been a lot going on. The Cotton Mensucat has passed, the Meat Fish Foundation has passed, the corruption has passed, but I've said nothing about myself, corruption, or the passing of a lira at his own throat. You'll know where you're going with what you said in politics. But I don't know if it's because of his youth or because he thinks that these relationships have no value for ethics in politics. But what our Minister is doing today is not right, what the mayor is doing is not right. If you...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0013par0272	I don't understand how much he sold it to the city.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0010par0273	They sold it for 49 grand. This car, which cost 45,000 liras, which worked on the election in Samsun, sold 99% of it to the mayor of Turgutlu, 100 per cent of it to the city of Turgutlu, the company of TURKAP for 49 thousand lira. Now, is there anything to talk about here? There's the notary sale, the check, the money from which bank, the car that an MP sold to his own municipality. If you have anything to say to that, I will not bow before you with respect, my friends. If there's going to be a fine for something so obvious, it's either me or the Minister.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0014par0275	Does it have insurance value?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0010par0276	There's a notary sale. He'll be with you in a moment, Mr. Secretary, to brief you on this. Mr. Secretary, I didn't do this job, I didn't sell this vehicle to the Turtle City Hall, and when you say you didn't get the $49,000, Hasan Ören won't come to the stand again, and when his political life is over, he'll be pulled over. If you'd like, I'll sign my name now, and with your votes, I'll be a deputy today. That's a bet, fellas.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0015par0277	Does the guy who sold the car have a name?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0010par0278	That's no way to talk, that's no way to talk.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0016par0279	Give me the insurance value.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0017par0280	Mr. New, please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0010par0281	You'll hire 52 inspectors at Izmir City Hall, you'll let people in because the cold sandwich is being distributed, you won't send two inspectors to Turgutlu City. And because of the Minister's relationship, you're going to be trying to protect the Minister, and you're going to try to talk to me about it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0016par0282	No, you didn't tell me the insurance value.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0017par0283	Mr. New, please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0010par0284	Don't be sarcastic. Don't be sarcastic. When the Minister gets here, listen to him. Did he sell the car to Turtle City?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0016par0285	He sold it, all right.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0010par0286	It's about this car he's selling... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...did he receive more money from the new one? [[Applause from CHP rows]] If he's saying anything other than that, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0018par0291	Mr. Ören, thank you. Please, Mr. Kören...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0010par0292	My dear friends, don't make a mistake. Whoever this is, whoever this is, whoever this is, if he gets out of here, take over.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0018par0293	Mr. Ören, please... thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0010par0294	My dear friends, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0018par0296	Levent Gök, Ankara MP who has asked for a speech on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0019par0299	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to a motion to open a geneor for the Republican People's Party Group on Youth and Sports Minister Suat Kılıç. I salute you all with love. I'd like to say that I'm condemning the fact that these generic talks are being held on a day without television coverage and that the truth is being prevented from being learned by our people. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers will allow the parties to be evaluated in the fight against corruption, for their allegations, for their rhetoric and for their way of implementing it, and in this way, their sincerity in dealing with corruption will be tested. As every argument expressed in this gene is documented, there is not a single sentence that has ever been denied. With some explanations, the issue presents an organised criminal organization. Today, my dear friends, we are discussing a matter which the political institution cannot underestimate, which must be carefully considered. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the citizen Suat Kılıç, of course, have the right to own property like everyone else. That's not what's being questioned in this genome. The debate is not against the citizen Suat Kılıç, but whether Suat Kılıç, the politician, was acting in line with his political identity while he was taking possession. How appropriate is it that a member of the ruling party and his party continue to serve as Vice President of the General Centre Publicity and Media, while politician Suat Kılıç (politicist Suat Kılıç) takes consulting routes from his party to a municipality's development work, through municipal bureaucrats, at the expense of a known to increase in value, and maintains that value during the Ministry, at the same time? That's what the debate is about. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been conducting a restoration study for three or four years under a project in the municipality of Altındağ, Hamamönu. In the area filled with ancient and historical homes, in recent years, it has been systematically increased, and the City of Aldındağ has forced citizens to leave their homes and sell their homes with threats to tear down their homes and insinuate them. Houses sold for nothing have increased in value as the project progresses, serious losses for those selling their real estate, and significant gains have arisen in terms of the fields. When we received information that Suat Kılıç had also acquired immovable property in the area mentioned, the Prime Minister was asked about it with a written motion, but so far no response has been received, and Suat Kılıç has made no statement, even though this motion was in the press. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, after all, the two documents of the move that Suat Kılıç had purchased at Hamaköna are obtained and their deeds have been shared with the public. After examining Suat Kılıç's unmovable record in Hamaöna, it was revealed that on 29 April 2009, the first move was a wooden house and the second was a land and three wooden houses, and that he bought shares from it. Both sides were side by side, 16 square meters from the first move -- pay attention, my dear friends -- to the second move, so that Suat became a shareholder of the first house, with three wooden houses on the sword. The Suat Sword has paid $25,500 for these movers, and according to this, the deed has invested its fees. My dear friends, the first actor of this sale is the one who sold the movers. The Suat Sword has taken them from a man named Erbil Yiğitbaş. We need to get to know this person a little better. Who is this Erbil hero? Erbil Yiğitbaş is a young friend of ours who was twenty-eight years old in 2009. He graduated from the University of Cırıkkale. In 2005, he started there as a research officer and was a graduate student in public administration. This is our friend's 2009 master's thesis on electoral systems, which says, "My dear friends, who is this Erbil Yigitbas?" He is the one who bought the house of Suat Kılıç. He says that the political parties' confidence and reputations are diminishing every day in the public eye. In particular, in recent years, the interference of the names of some political parties and officials has undermined the confidence of lawmakers and political parties. Dear friends, Erbil Herobass, who expressed this view in his scientific thesis, probably wanted to confess the sin of this unclean relationship he was forced into. Erbil Yiğitbaş, the man who has turned over the deed, is one of the most trusted of Suat Sword and his family. As Suat Kılıç took advantage of Erbil Yiğitbaş as a consultant, he brought him to the board of the Federation of Turkey's Digital Games established last year. The other members of the Federation, chosen from software companies, are the only members of the Federation, Erbil Yiğitbaş, who came there with Suat Kılıç. My dear friends, Erbil Yiğitbaş was married on September 4, 2011. At the wedding and wedding ceremony of the army, Suat Kılıç was also present and witnessed the wedding. Erbil Yiğitbaş's close relationship with Suat Kılıç and his family was also revealed in another way: I would like to share with you the preliminary statement of the 2009 master's thesis on violence against the woman of Suat Kılıç. In 2009, when the sale took place, Suat Kılıç's beloved wife wrote in the preliminary statement of her thesis: "I want to thank Erbil Yiğitbaş, who helped me to organize and write my work and did not withhold her labor. Thus, my dear friends, the relationship between Suat Sword and Erbil Yiğitbaş is very clear, and everywhere. As a result, my dear friends, Erbil Yiğitbaş, a man of Suat Kılıç, and Suat Kılıç, have taken over the deeds of this man. Erbil Yiğitbaş later said, when it came to the press, I put it on sale; no one bought it; such a demand came, and so we sold it. Mr. President, when the valuable lawmakers are involved, look where they're going: when we look at the deeds of the deed, it's been revealed that Erbil Yiğitbaş transferred the assets to Suat Kılıç, which was the date of April 29, 2009, two months and twenty-seven days ago. That's the first sale, two months and 27 days ago. Why did this happen? In fact, when Suat Sword deals with this house, he realizes that what he's doing is wrong. He was concerned that this purchase would be heard when he bought directly from the owners of the house. Therefore they did not move, but they were taken in the name of the mighty man, Erbil the mighty, and two months later the work of the handover was done. We're looking at a full-blown, cloaked sale. Mr. Suat, you really know what you're doing, we need to congratulate you on this. As for the second actor of our sale, Suat Kılıç did not go to the deed himself on April 29, 2009 to take over the premises. He gave a person a power of attorney for this, a person named Alparslan Ekinci. Erbil Yiğitbaş and Alparslan went to Ekinci's deed together, and Alparslan took the power of Suat Kılıç, and passed them over to the deed in the name of Suat Kılıç. Who is this Alparslan Sower, my dear friends? Hang on, Suat Kılıç's trusted man, Erbil Yiğitbaş, is the head of the Bureau for the Protection of Historical Areas of Ekdindağ Municipality of Alparslan. I repeat, Chief of the Historical Area Protection Unit.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0020par0318	Oh, for crying out loud!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0019par0319	What do my dear friends do for the city's Chief of Historical Field Protection? Protecting historical sites, restoring homes, renovating houses, deciding which street and which house to restore. This is Suat Kılıç, whose duty is to protect the Historical Areas. He has given a deputy to a city bureaucrat.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0020par0320	It's a disgrace!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0019par0321	Dear lawmakers, is there such a thing? Is that possible? Where in the world has he been seen? Since when do the bureaucrats of an AKP-based municipality, a bureaucrat in charge of zoning, become a real estate agent in the land manager's office, my dear friends? Who lets them, how does that work?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0021par0322	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0019par0323	Suat Kılıç, the ruling party's MP, saw no harm in giving up the power of attorney. My dear friends, the Chief of Protection of the Historical Areas is not only helping to buy the house, but the person who helped Suat Kılıç take the necessary permits from the municipality to restore the house under his power of attorney. He's not the Chief of Protection of Historical Areas, he's the chief of purchases. It's hard to really explain. These relationships are not acceptable relationships. Political influence, public opinion, public knowledge, everything has entered into this trade. In no country in the world, my dear friends can carry such corrupt relationships, no politician or political institution. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The explanations of the mayor of Altındağ, Veysel Tiryaki, also brought another dimension to the event. When it came to the press, the mayor of Altındağ made this statement: (Aparslan Ekinci - the person who took the power of attorney for Suat Kılıç) - a friend working in the development department of the municipality. I swear I didn't know Suat Kılıç was following the sale under the power of attorney. Believe in my sincerity, I have no idea. He said and immediately added: "In the press, it says that he bought for this much, and in fact, he bought for 76,000. Did things get complicated, my dear friends? Mayor Suat Kılıç has given the prices of his house reflected in the press at another price. Now, the mayor of Altındağ swears he doesn't know about the incident, but every line of his speech is classified and goes on, he says if I remember the location of Suat Kılıç, it's 170 square feet. It's hard to get their heirs together. Probably got a power of attorney to monitor the sale from the heirs of the individuals, and it's a very humane job. From here, the Suat Sword creates a runt three or four years later. Such are the explanations, my dear friends. We're discussing a question that doesn't need to explain anything, to explain anything. Here we come up with these stunning paintings: First, if Suat Kılıç paid $76,000 not to move out, as the mayor said, then there is a fugitive who is paid in tuition on the deed. You, my dear friends, are a pain in the ass in the ass in power, and look what a friend of yours did to your ministers while you were missing tax collection. Second, it was discovered that Alparslan Ekinci, despite his public duty, the first owners of the house were not able to move in when Erbil was first sold to Yiğitbaş. In this way, the Chief of the Protection of Historical Areas of the City of Aldındağ, in the first sale, in the sale of Erbil Yiğitbaş, the buyers; in the second sale, in the sale of Suat Kılıç, in which Suat was bought, was both included and included in the sale. Bless you, Mr. Secretary! How dare you stoop to such matters? My dear friends, if that's the way things are seen in the municipalities, these things are out of control. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, corruption is destroying the economy and democracy. According to the World Corruption Report 2011, Turkey ranks 61st among 183 countries in the world in corruption and bribery, following Namibia and Rwanda. My dear friends, you may recall that Adana Mayor Aytaç Durak has been removed from his post and is still on trial because his wife has made a development change that has doubled the value of the land he owns. Mesut Yilmaz had to answer to the Supreme Court for meeting with a businessman about the tender in Turkbank's tender, and the charge was described as abuse of duty. Again, German President Wulff has recently been indicted and resigned because -- as you remember -- a businessman took money from a friend of his at low interest and kept it a secret from everyone. Moreover, when he was Prime Minister of Lower Saxony before his presidency, he could not stop him from resigning. Examples are possible in the world. Everywhere we look, we get Suat Sword. Our friend just told me about the job at the Turtle City Hall. I'll show you another document. Look, there's been a money raid recently at the center of Metro Holdings. The owners of Metro Holdings are now in prison. This issue is being investigated in Germany. The person known as Galip Ozturk has been contacted by drug traffickers, owner of Metro Holdings. Look, I've got the Turkish Trade Register Journal. This paper, dated 18/10/2007, includes Wednesday's Energy Power Production Corporation partners. Who do you think are my dear friends? Currently arrested for black money, Galip Ozturk, Wednesday Mayor Hüseyin Dündar, and, of course, again, Suat Kılıç, my dear friends. This company aims to run an energy business by building a hydropower plant. As you know, the government gives permission and privilege for such plants. The job of the legislature, the ministry, the vice president of the group, are my dear friends involved in all this? I was a lawyer, and on June 20th, I took my desk, and on June 21st, I cut all ties with the IRS, but Mr. Secretary continues to take part in this kind of business after he became a congressman. Mr. Suat Sword, what are you doing in these affairs? Your party chose you over the party members who fought for years in your youth, who held you back, who gave you the authorities you couldn't even imagine, who became the MP, who became everything at the party, who you were the minister of. What is this ambition? Come and tell us about it somehow. My dear friends, the Ministry of Youth and Sports Suat Sword. How will these young men imitate you, Mr. Suat Sword? Explain these relationships? Who recommended the house in the bath house? Explain your relations with Erbil Yiğitbaş, explain your relations with Alparslan Ekcici. Explain how much you really got on the deed. Explain how much money you put on the deed. Come, explain everything. In a moment, the bench is open, and I'll be sitting across from you, so answer them. My dear friends, valued lawmakers, the subject is sensitive, and the issue is very political. Now, the issue is especially in the hands and conscience of our AKP MP friends. In a moment, the move to advance the motion for the motion to be passed, the motion to be processed will be voted, and you will likely raise your hand to ensure that this motion is rejected. My advice to you is to place your hand on your moral values, put it on your moral values, put it on your human values, and choose your conscience over this dilemma that politics imposes on you, because, my dear friends, I know how your morale has improved and what you are rich. I know you know one thing about Muhammad the Lord more than I do. What Muhammad says is: "The hunger wolves who attack sheep can't do the harm of greed and authority to religion." We expect this behavior from you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, Suat Sword, Minister of Youth and Sports. How do we trust our young men to the Minister of Youth and Sports? The Prime Minister says, "Let's raise religious youth. But we have a friend of ours who doesn't observe events, who doesn't observe customs, who doesn't follow any ethical rules of politics." Keeping this friend in this chair will cause the political institution to melt every day. Please don't approve of this. See this account here today. The sword of Suat entered into the bath, and remained there. Now it's your turn to go to the baths, sweats in the baths, my dear friends, get in the baths and get out of this bath. Please contribute with your votes for the processing of this gene. In terms of politics in Turkey, not in terms of your own party, in terms of morality in Turkey, please contribute as well. My dear friends, Mr. Suat Kılıç, who has recently made a statement to a newspaper and says there: "I am their brother Suat, where I am called, my assistants, my governors, my governors, my governors, my governors, and my governors. But the young people, the students I'm addressing, please, let the precious students call me. I am their brother Suat. Mr. Suat Kılıç, don't worry, the young will address you and tell you exactly what you are! I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0022par0346	Thank you, Mr. Sky. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the speaker is Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0023par0349	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group due to a gene question about the Minister of Youth and Sports, Mr. Suat Kılıç. I salute you all. In fact, I'd like to take a very sensitive approach to these things... the system, the philosophy, the structure, all of them together... and bring to your attention a point in which our Parliament in Turkey is so lacking. I'm going to draw attention to political ethics in particular, and I'd like to start with a couple of examples. In the 70s, you know, the Watergate scandal broke out in the United States. You remember that time when Richard Nixon resigned in 1974. Then the U.S. Congress learned from it and passed the political ethics law. Later, Congress received an assessment of lawmakers, senators' livelihoods, fees, revenue resources. We're not going to go far because I want to see something that happened recently. In Germany, you know the recent resignation of the President. Why did he do it? In this regard, Christian Wulff resigned because the businessman was accused of taking a low interest loan from his wife. So, the President resigned as a scandal was about to explode, and in the past weeks, Germany has elected the new President. When we look at our recent history, we don't see that our recent history has a very bright record. So we can count Hurricane, Matador, Buffalo, Parachute, Eagle, Serhat, Dream, White Energy, lentils, Lighthouse, and a lot more, so in the last 20 years, bank siphoning and power overthrows, I want to draw attention to that. Now, there's a verse that says, "God commands you to give the trusts, to the people, to the people who are in power and to the people who are secure. "In fact, a little more than that, when a man is appointed an officer, if he conceals a needle from us or something less than a needle, it is treason." He will come with him on the Day of Resurrection. Now, religiously, that's the way it is, morally speaking, we're talking about a matter of serious political assessment, and the problem arises: transparency, honesty, corruption in Parliament's function, Rant relations and its rise to the level of habit, and as a result, it spreads throughout the country as a common disease. There's no such thing as decrypting Da Vinci, my friends. It's a system problem, it's a philosophy problem because if you want to solve it, you can. The method of this is simple. For example, in 2008, a European Parliament motion to question Turkey was asked whether the European Union countries for corruption in Turkey had taken any measures. I note that the OECD Anti-Bax Group has voiced serious difficulties in implementing the contract. Now, KOM, this is the 2007 report on Trafficking and Organised Crimes. That's what happens when you're a phalanx. A hundred and fifty-six operations are under way in a year: smuggling, gangs, financial crime, smuggling immigration, bank fraud, IT crimes, etcetera. In fact, we see very clearly that the soft belly of power is two points in its mastery; one is freedoms, and one is very clearly corruption; and the next term will be very often on the agenda. There are questions to be answered in Parliament and I ask you, friends, if there is even a drop in the sea -- I mean size, size, proportion, etc. -- on the agenda of the Minister: Why wasn't the political ethics law removed during your ten-year period of power? We want the answer to that, we expect it as the Peace and Democracy Party. There are proposals made in the 23rd term, there are proposals made in the 24th term, and the political ethics law has not been passed. There are also efforts to establish a political ethics commission. In fact, in 2010, the chairman of the Human Rights Review Commission spoke of this in 2009. We live in a country that needs clean society, clean politics, because we believe that the main source of problems affects the very political ethical area of the wheel that spins in the economy. Political ethics not only comes from intellectual jobs, but from private life, starting from tapes during election times, coming to different issues, coming to trial, bringing in opposition, personal courts, special trials, private arrests. So there's political ethical erosion in all areas, unfortunately. The current state of political parties. Remember the MP transfers, the Halle parties. So when we're involved in political ethics, come back soon, and we'll come back to help the parties with the Treasury. Here's the Peace and Democracy Party. Despite being deprived of the treasury's aid, although it was his group, this money was not given from the treasure, the money from our constituent was not given from it. Even in the constitution of the coup attempt of Canaan's Universe, there were seven per cent dams, with a law imposed by power in the days of the apprenticeship, and the groups were removed from the treasury aid. That's not a moral issue either, fellas. The 10% election threshold is not moral, it's in front of free will, and we've come to cross the 10 percent threshold independently, through 36 MPs. Now, I'd like to point out to you that in the past, there have been many parties. In large parties, parties that couldn't get through the dam showed the MP, then elected, then left, moved on to their own party. This is going on until recently. Those are the things we should be politically ethical about. In the 1789 French Revolution, Rousseau's convention of the community states that voters should be able to discharge the representative whenever they want. This system, this sanction, unfortunately in the Constitution of September 12th, has been changed in the constitution of coup, and the elected MP has been elected not only because he is a representative of the entire nation, but because he is a representative of the entire nation, and because the borders are Turkey, the level of responsibility remains in the election. There are parties that sign political ethical protocols. When we entered the election, we signed a protocol that we promised you would choose. In this protocol, we have a promise to our people that we will fight the darkness, corruption, especially the rant, anything that harms the people. We stand by this promise, and let no one hesitate that we will fulfill it. Against political ethics, we benefit from making some reminders of the two terms as members of a party that washed the dams in the 2007-2012 elections, a party that came from a struggle. In the recent history of our political debate, there are necklaces, there are bribes, there are tenders, there are joint companies, there are tender commissions, and 2005, with the signature of the Prime Minister, it was published. It's about the ethics of public officials, the ban on receiving gifts -- it's about taking bribes, it's about crime in the law. Now, there's no prime minister and ministers involved in this, so that doesn't include running the joint. Now again, I'd like to say -- interestingly, I've done some research -- Mr. Mehmet Secret, our Deputy Speaker of Parliament, at that time, I believe, has served as President of the Public Ethics Board. Then there was a visit to Moscow, a lot of public debate. Then he had to return it to the treasure, because a necklace that Kissinger had received was a bit of a commodity. In fact, the necklace from Moscow was forced to return to the treasury with the same adventure. I'm gonna remind you of something, but don't be mad at me. Look, I'm talking very calmly today, and I'd like to share some of this. In the Ottoman tradition, priceless gifts were presented where the sultans went, and the envoys came from their country with expensive gifts. So, in this sense of Ottomanism, in the 21st century, our age has no value anymore. Politicians need to pay great attention to this in democracies, because the padisahs, empires, they were ruling in exchange for revenues, taxes, but now we're in a parliament, a democracy, and in this sense of democracy, if there is corruption involved in the way that Berlusconi can take the testimony of a prosecutor, or if he can steal the Prime Minister's door in Spain, or if he can steal the Prime Minister's door because of the clean society -- look, look, see, it's in this Parliament, it's only because of the incident that has been removed. If you don't see immunity removed from corruption, corruption, and lustrous work. Right now, look inside the debates, who's got their rants, corruption, bids, etcetera on dusty shelves? Then look at our six hundred-odd conflict. Because of what we say on this stand, prosecutors are on our backs every day, our friend... yesterday, just a week later, our former Tunceli MP Sherafettin Halis was sentenced to 15 years and six months in prison... in Tunceli, here and here, on this stand. And here, the best man of justice, his mace, is a little off, so people are going to jail for years because of their thoughts, but the cases of the massacrers are being timed out. On top of that, I want to say something that scares me, and I'll say it clearly, without hesitation. So we're dealing with the historical responsibility of our four groups. What happens if a minister resigns right now and a minister is denied immunity? If you do not correct the root of the system, if this Parliament does not adopt the political ethics law, without a political ethics law of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, without a political ethics commission of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we will face such questions and debates every day. Then, we invite four parties on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party, in the name of justice, in the name of right, in the name of the nation, in the name of all voters. Let's take out the political ethics law this week; let's set up the political ethics commission this week; let's not be offended, let's not be afraid, let's not avoid it. Anyone who avoids it will raise a question mark on us, which means he has a situation to run away from. Every speaker who comes up here has to make a statement about it. Why isn't there a political ethics law in the House? Why is it always discussed, debated, dismissed, filed, left on the shelves? Why isn't the political ethics law coming out? Why isn't there a political ethics commission? Now, I'm not going to go into the privatisation dimension of Rant politics. WHAT happened in TUPRASH, what happened in Galataport, what was going on in the sugar mills? Just this week, we've discussed three or four basic laws, my friends. Until 2023, we're exempting from taxes from public-private partnership, and we're doing the tenders on our own. In the urban transformation of the Disaster Law, we will tear down all the buildings because of the risk of earthquakes from Istanbul to Marmara, from Marmara to Van. Who will do it after that? TOKI will do it. Who does the TOKI depend on? It's up to the Prime Minister. How's he gonna do it? He'll do it without bidding. You won't ask the local authorities, you won't ask the civil society, you won't take any of their will, you'll block the judicial path. One trillion dollars. Look, the cake is $1 trillion, guys. A trillion dollars, under the laws of parliament talks this month, a trillion dollars, because of the money that comes out of this country's treasure... is there any chance that we can afford to leave it at the expense of the government, the Prime Minister and his party? I thought you said there was transparency. Then what do we do as Congress? I thought the House had an audit mission. I thought you said there was a court that served in our name. He will destroy the projects of the cities, and his building of the cities, and he will build the building where he will, and he will do what he will, and he will do what he will, and he will do what he will, and he will do what he will, and he will do what he will. When I think about it, I'm scared, my friends, when I do this comparison of the Ankara bath. We will never, ever leave ground in this House, we will not allow it, and if there is doubt, we will stand against it. As our group, we are clear about this, and we invite you to be transparent. On behalf of my group, I invite you to join the political ethics law, I invite you to form a political ethics commission on behalf of our group, which is one of the best things we can do in this House. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0024par0373	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye MP who has asked for a speech on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0025par0377	Mr. President, I have been promised by the Turkish nation's esteemed lawmakers to share with you the views of the National Movement Party on the 98th, 99th and 106th amendment of our Constitution, under the Article of the Interior Law on Youth and Sports Minister Suat Kılıç, using its political position on its political position and protecting public officials during the ministry's mission and thus abusing their job. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0026par0378	It's slander! It's all coincidence!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0025par0379	This issue, also in print and visual media, appears to have been found by Mr. Minister in April 2009 by the city of Altındağ in April 2009 that two previously known renovating sites in the Hamaön area, where he successfully studied restoration, were purchased at a cheap price, and after restoration, the value of the move has reached very high numbers. For this purchase, it is vital and crucial that members of the City of Altındağ have personally acted as intermediaries and proxy, and then to be promoted and protected by the Minister. In fact, this issue is the most innocent of corruption during the AKP administrations in ten years. Since the day the AKP came to power, there have been many public allegations of corruption. While still in the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, the Prime Minister and his team, named after many corruptions, were naturally involved in similar rumors when they formed the government. The most striking of all: the Ali Dibo incident in Hatay province, the Lzmir State Railways port transport tender, the Aycell-Aria Co-operation contract, the State Railways station renovation tenders, TMSF hotel tenders, the Deepland selling, Balıkesir SECA, People's Bank Net Holding, the Blue Stream formula renovation business, the Soviet Union of Rosche, the Aycell-Aria merger, the Aycell-Siemens agreement, the Bingol earthquake dwellings, the National Ministry of Education 62 primary education schools, the İTÜTÜA, 14 per cent of the Seka, the Seka, the Turkish Bank Net Holding, the White Stream formula re-responsion business, 14 per cent of Turkey, the Black Sea-Air, the Black Sea-Arus, the Black Seanation of Turkey, the Seka, and the Black Sea.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0027par0382	Go on!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0025par0383	You'll do the rest. According to the World Bank definition, corruption, described as the abuse of public authority for private interests, is a hard thing to measure because it causes both economic and moral damage. According to the widely accepted understanding, however, corruption is the main cause of poverty, the biggest obstacle to development. The two key sources of corruption are the bad law and the bad people. Bad administrative, legal, political regulations encourage and correct people to corruption. There's a lot to say about a person who means well. The way to avoid accountability and accountability is to prevent citizens from being informed of what's going on, as a fact that media blackouts are being made, as these generic talks are not allowed to be monitored by the public. The systematicisation of corruption begins with the goal of managing public spending. The politician draws as many resources as he can into the areas where he has power. I'm sure you're reminded of the disaster risk-related bill, the 2/B, the do-and-work model bill, the education law, and the FATIH Project, the Public Contraction Act and a lot of similar arrangements.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0028par0388	There'll be artefacts!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0025par0389	The most common and simple definition of corruption is the abuse of public authority by the World Bank, which I just remembered by the World Bank. On one side of each corruption is either the political authority that uses public power or the bureaucracy appointed by this political authority. Corruption is not a problem that has arisen today, but corruption is a result of the ten-year period of AKP, when the political authority side gains weight, deals, chroniculation, regularisation, and even the holy cause is legitimized. (Applause from the MHP and CHP rows) Our history of corruption has recorded corruption that has often been infected by public officials and high bureaucrats for the past ten years, but in the last decade, we now see that this privilege and monopoly have passed on to some AKP-based politicians. The corruption we witnessed during the last ten years of AKP minister, MP and mayors demonstrates that AKP has mastered and branded corruption. This has been confessed by the Prime Minister himself. Anti-corruption allegations of corruption against ministers and lawmakers who were not nominated in the elections have been cited as grounds, but they have not been able to slow down the Prime Minister's core staff on corruption. At one point, the Cabinet gave the appearance of a delegation appointed from the prison staff on corruption. Is it normal for a minister of power to buy and sell the wealth of his son's circumcision to 300, 500, and see it as legitimate commercial activity, as if the fish stink from the head of power, in an environment where he tried to launder it with gold from his son's circumcision? (Applause from the ranks of MHP) Children reading on a fellow businessman's scholarship, shipboys owned by children, irregular loans to conglomerates employed by grooms, gifts taken by the ladies, housing in the million-dollar villas of their fellow villagers, Opers, Ogers, liquid eggsmen, counterfeit billing politicians, energy tenders, arcs taken under the name of energy tenders, the very valuable gifts not declared by the King of Saudi kings, are the ones we've always witnessed in the reign of AKP. The AKP, who came to power in 2002 with its slogan for fighting corruption, began following corrupt policies rather than preventing corruption from coming to power. His first act was to change the Public Contraction Law, which was introduced to fight corruption. Using public power, a significant part of the acts of profit benefiting has been decriminalized, and these activities have been routinely normalized. The failure and failure of AKP's economic policies in our country for ten years led to a rapid increase in poverty, while political and moral corruption became a social gangrene. The public resources that should be spent on the welfare of society have been looted by those who hold political power, the poor poor poor, the strange guru's rights, and the bread at the table has been stolen shamelessly.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0029par0393	People don't believe you, they don't believe you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0030par0394	Why don't you just say the right thing?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0029par0395	People don't believe you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0031par0396	The eyes and the ears will bear witness to you. You can't escape.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0029par0397	The more you talk, the more you sink.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0031par0398	It's written with eyes and ears. It's written by the Lord.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0032par0399	Mr. New, please... Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0033par0401	The corruption of the AKP government is causing a moral breakdown in society, while our country's economy, social fabric, democracy, and law...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0034par0402	The more you slander, the more you sink.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0035par0403	Tell the bully officer, the teaser officer...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0033par0404	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0035par0405	He's not a public defender, he's a teaser.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0036par0406	Mr. New... Mr. Vural, this is your congressman speaking.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0037par0408	Tell the slanderer, the slanderer.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0036par0409	Mr. New, please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0038par0410	Get out of there!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0039par0411	You're a bully officer! You'll pay for those eyes and ears.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0036par0412	Mr. Vural, this is your congressman speaking, please, but...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0038par0413	How will you get to your territory?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0040par0414	Tell him there.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0036par0415	Mr. New, please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0041par0416	Fingers don't exonerate you, they don't exonerate you. You'll give it to me again in the sight of God.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0042par0417	They'll call you a thief.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0036par0418	Mr. Türkoglu, you address the General Assembly. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0043par0420	Thank you, Mr. President. The corruption of the AKP's ruling government has caused a moral breakdown in society, while the country's economy, social fabric, democracy, and trust in the legal system have seriously been damaged.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0044par0422	Whatever you say, take your eyes and ears off the record.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0043par0423	Trust in democracy and politics has been shaken, trust in the state of law and justice reduced...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0045par0424	The more you talk, the more you sink.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0044par0425	You can't see.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0046par0426	Were you and Suat Kılıç a partner? Did you buy it together? I see you're hurt!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0047par0427	...the administrative system is corrupt, the criminals are encouraged, the looting and the institutionalization of the Rant order, leading to injustice and inefficiency in public services...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0044par0428	You'll be uncomfortable, uncomfortable.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0046par0429	You're stealing. It's a thief who defends theft.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0047par0430	...the distribution of incomes has been corrupted against honest and decent citizens, social ethics, moral values, and moral breakdowns.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0044par0431	Everyone will see what will happen to the hand of the man who lays his hand on the house. You, you!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0047par0432	As a result of corruption, the corruption of the state, the economy, the political structure, or social structure, has gradually spread throughout the system and dominated political, social and economic structure in the ten-year AKP administration, such as social cancer.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0048par0433	You must have taken the money with you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0047par0434	The founder of our Republic, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the Great Leader, wants to live comfortably without work, fatigue, production, first their dignity.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0048par0435	Why don't you tell me about the money you got from the Infractional Holdings?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0049par0436	Mr. Turkkan, please, this is your orator speaking.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0047par0437	Then they lose their freedom and then their future and future.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0048par0438	People are crying out there, she's miserable, because of you!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0049par0439	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0047par0440	...that the greatest danger that awaits our nation in the future years ago is the society that is driven by the logic of turning the corner without producing, without working, no matter how, without saying "haram-helal." This is the advanced, democratic, and so-called religious society that you have created. Today, you now have nine stamps for one person in your power, one stamp for nine. Some coal for the poor, a bag of beans and pasta for the poor, and a trillion-year-old cake for the ministers of the government. The master says that he would not make a wolf, but you, who claim to be his follower, have made the master's bones aching. Corruption activities that the government has systematicised have undermined our nation's trust in our state, while fundamentally underpinning the principles of democracy, law, justice and equality, while also affecting economic competition in a negative way and encouraging inefficient, aimless, imaginary giant projects and investments. The process was reversed during the AKP period, when the decision to invest before the AKP was decided and then decided on who to distribute it to, while the decision first was made to decide who to enrich and invest according to it. Instead of looking for the man to do the job, investments in your partner are being researched and planned. The scale of the matter has become so terrifying that there are rants in the moon. If they are called AKP developers will quickly start looking for ladders. [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] The idea of politics invented by the AKP has led to the beginning of politics as an instrument of abuse, rant and money. The attempt to subsidize ordinary public power for a AKP politician has led to the legitimacy of corruption in society and even the appreciation of corrupt politicians. The way the AKP has created artificial political conflicts and tensions, virtual crises, imaginary coup investigations and policy-making through religious values has taken off the agenda of the government's corruption and mortgaged the voter's will to vote. In the cases of corruption that have been uncovered, the perpetrators have given religious meaning to their thefts, making excuses for their beliefs, implying that they have done for God, while the citizens are stealing, but they are also doing business. The public's alms and fitness, even the victim's money, can become the subject of corruption activities. The work of those who waste their lives in foreign hands with homesickness can be given to the Lighthouses. Corruption and bribery have been reported in almost all religions, especially our religion, the holy religion of Islam, that God will curse those who commit such acts, which have been described as "evil" or "bad" in their moral system, "bad" or "bad" in their moral system. No book accepts corruption as a legitimate act to transform government power into self-interest. If the Supreme Prophet were asking you, Mr. Secretary of Justice, if you were not the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Justice for Zakat and the Minister of Justice for Zakat and the Zakat officer for Zakat, if you were to sit at your father's house, would these gifts be given to you? Would you not have received the information that this house would have been valued because of your position and position? Would you, Mr. Secretary of the AKP's Minister of the Group? Mr. Secretary, leave this nation and the Parliament to answer for this to God? Unfortunately, the majority of you here today may be sufficient to cover up your corruption, but with what majority of you will be able to cover it up in the presence of God on the day of reckoning? On that day there will be neither the AKP nor Erdogan's power, but only the power of Almighty God and his justice, and you will face only his infinite and mighty account, where you will have no immunity armor. Congressmans, believe me, many of your pride in corruption will not protect you from the wrath of God in this world and from the torment of the Hereafter. Mr. Secretary, the sheikh's son-in-law won't even save him. Will you protect those who lay a hand on my orphan's right? Of course, as people who believe, you can't protect them, you can't protect them. So, let's all vote in favor of the gene, and let's do ourselves and the Minister a favor, give the Minister a chance to bring good fortune while the road is near. Mr. Secretary will return the amount he obtained from this job to the public through a charity. May he ask forgiveness and resign from office of the Ministry so that God may forgive him. And We gave to the chief of the government, and to its members, every kind of good and lawful and unlawful speech, and the eyes of my people will be filled with greed for wealth and money. We spoke of it, and we could not explain it. Since you have British, Spanish, American, Italian, German friends and friends, let's try to tell you about Alexander the Great's will. Alexander the Great says in his will: "Let the physicians carry my coffin, and let the physicians know that they are weak in the face of death. Let everyone know that my wealth is on the ground, that you remain in this world, and that my hand is taken out of the coffin, that everyone may know that it is empty. [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] The honorable members of the AKP have, thank God, given us the privilege of acting in the great Turkish nation. From time to time, when you perform this task, I think you've voted in a way that doesn't suit you. Sometimes the order comes from a higher place, and you have to break not only the Constitution, the Civil Code, the laws and regulations. I'd like to tell you a story about this: A friend of God wants to go to the bath in Murad's day, but the bath boy says the king's queens are having fun in there and can't get in. Allah is the Guardian of the heavens and the earth. He says that he will purify himself and worship (Allah). He convinces the hammaid to take a quiet bath without being seen in a corner. The Lord's friend began to bathe in the sounds of the queens' entertainment...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0050par0453	Where? At the bath house?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0047par0454	Sir, of course, the bath house, I mean, because it's relevant. ...God's friend began to bathe amongst the sounds of entertainment by the queens, dressed in disguise and IV. Murad comes to the bath to watch his queens. He convinces the hammaid, and the hammaid takes him to the part where God is his friend, by telling him to be quiet, by telling him to be quiet. Padishaha, the friend of God, who began to wash himself by hearing the sounds of fun, says, "Son, let me wash your back." For the first time, the Padişah enjoys, is impressed, accepts, and says, "Of course, he scrubs his back." But the Padişah is also a man, and he responds not to be left down: I'll wash your back, old man. And when he gets a positive answer, he starts to scrub the old man. And God sends an envelope to his friend to make conversation, he says, "There's a sultan to be a queen, old man. Look how well they are amused. The friend of God answers a young man who doesn't know he's the Padişah, who makes him fall from his hand: "Forget being a queen of Sultans and be a minister to the Sultan of the Sultans. If you do, you'll have your back washed off by the sultan. I salute the honorable MPs of the Turkish nation, who intend to be queen of the sultans' sultans.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0051par0458	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Now to speak for the AK PARTY Group, Yilmaz Bronze, Bartın MP. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0052par0462	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group regarding the motion to ask about our Minister of Youth and Sports, Mr. Suat Kılıç. I hereby salute your high council. The gensor is an important means of control envisioned in our Constitution and Turkey's Grand National Assembly Interior Charter. In Turkish constitutional law, it is the final liability of the Council of Ministers and ministers to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In other words, the gene question is an inspection of the Council of Ministers or the political responsibility of a minister. His gene is the most effective of other inspection tools. In our Constitution, the information and control routes of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have been elaborated. In Article 98 of the Constitution, the question motion for this audit is stated to be used through parliamentary research, general discussion, geneor and parliamentary investigation, each of which is more detailed in Articles 99 and 100, as well as in the importance of the geneor and parliamentary investigation. The gene is a very serious institution that will result in the reduction of the Council of Ministers or the minister by vote of insecurity, unlike any other means of inspection. In the past, governments, ministers have been lowered in this parliament, through this audit of policies and practices carried out by the cabinet's general policy or by a minister in his ministry. Therefore, the subject and reason of the gene question must be solid, based on the evidence. Otherwise, the gene goes away from the purpose of the gene, becomes a question proposal, which leads to the emergence of a negative picture in terms of parliamentary democracy, causing the institution to weaken, lose its influence and become a means of control, and the gene is no different from the group proposals given every day to disrupt the work of the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0053par0466	You wrote this without listening to us, I get it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0052par0467	In Article 99 of our Constitution, it has been made clear that the geneor must be used in accordance with the purpose of the legislature's work.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0054par0469	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0055par0470	Mr. Proposal, let's hear it, please.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0056par0471	Did he sell the car to the city or not?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0055par0472	We have to listen to all the oratories.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0057par0473	However, our opposition parties have thus far violated our Constitutional decree and have chosen to use this way to ensure that parliamentary work is not carried out in balance. Mr. President, when we look at the issue and the reason for the motion given by Republican People's Party lawmakers about Mr. Suat Kılıç, our esteemed Minister of Youth and Sports, we see that Mr. Minister had nothing to do with his ministry.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0058par0475	What do you mean, no? Shame on you! How can you say that?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0057par0476	It's not about the policies and practices he's been following in his ministry.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0058par0477	Did I appoint that person to the Federation? I appointed you? It was just taken three months ago, appointed three months ago.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0059par0478	Dear Sky, please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0058par0479	You just appointed a person who was taken three months ago.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0059par0480	The General Assembly has listened to you, please, Mr. Gök.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0058par0481	He posted it three months ago, three months ago. Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0060par0482	At first glance, we see that his gene does not carry the conditions set in our Constitution and our Civil Code, that he has no serious basis, that he has no evidence.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0058par0483	There's a folder document for you, a folder. Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0061par0484	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0060par0485	The speakers of the CHP bring up press conferences almost every day...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0058par0486	He posted it three months ago, three months ago.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0061par0487	Mr. Sky, that's not true.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0060par0488	...there's a text in front of us that doesn't go beyond scribbled statements.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0058par0489	You're lying, you're lying! He's lying.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0061par0490	Mr. Sky, no one took such an attitude while you were making allegations. Please, Mr. Sky...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0058par0491	You're lying, you're lying! He's lying.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0062par0492	Sit down, listen!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0063par0493	The CHP speakers will also know that this text is empty...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0058par0494	You're lying against corruption!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0063par0495	...they're trying to support the gene with other allegations that are not included in the general motion.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0058par0496	You're lying, you're lying! Everything you say is a lie!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0064par0497	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0063par0498	The charges are heavy...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0064par0500	Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0063par0501	The charges are heavy, but there's no evidence or motive. There's only one thing that's out there...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0065par0502	I'm giving you a folder document. There's a binder document.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0064par0503	Mr. Sky, you have expressed your claims. Please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0065par0504	Your minister couldn't deny it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0066par0505	Prove it!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0506	...which is the classic opposition of the Republican People's Party. Throw down and leave a mark. It's a logical text. It's one of those empty files that swings before the election.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0065par0507	Which one's empty? That's what I'm showing you, is it?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0508	Our people now know your intentions.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0065par0509	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0510	If there was anything in the files you'd shake, you wouldn't stop for a minute, you'd run to the D.A.'s office. Why can't you run?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0065par0511	You're part of this, you're part of this.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0068par0512	Dear Sky, please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0513	Here's to the judicial authorities, the public prosecutors, who's holding you up? Of course, it's not working for you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0065par0514	You're defending corruption!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0515	Throw down the mud, and leave a mark. As long as you act with reason, these muds will never reach the AK PARTY; they will remain in your hands, and they will continue to rub your hands and faces. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, the motion for the geneorization submitted under the signature of CHP MPs is full of mistakes in law and reason from head to toe. It's obvious that he's based on newspaper reports, he's prepared for the works, he's been sloppy.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0065par0518	There's more going out, who's going out?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0069par0519	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0520	Another report from the newspaper, which has been funding the motion, explains why the gene's gene is being given.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0065par0521	The refuge is to him, the refuge! Why are you taking refuge?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0522	This newspaper has reported heavily on the gene...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0070par0523	Mr. President, we listened for 20 minutes without making a sound.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0071par0524	Mr. Sky, please, you've brought up your claims for 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0525	...and then, after the motion for the geneorization was made, he made another report. The headline of that report is that the tactical motions for the motions for the geneorization given to block the 4+4-plus-4 bill will be discussed this week.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0072par0526	I said that two months ago, two months ago... what's in 4+4?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0527	And it is clear from here that the two motions we're interviewing today, both of them, are the motions for the motions of the gene for tactical purposes to play into time.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0072par0528	Bullshit! Bullshit!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0529	The intention is not to lower the minister with his geneor, but to prevent the laws that our nation expects of us.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0072par0530	You're talking nonsense, it's empty.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0531	Mr. President, the charge in the motion for the geneorization is that a citizen who doesn't know that his former home is part of the restoration project claims that Mr. Minister bought a house and was later part of the restoration project in this region. And when you ask, "What is the evidence that decomposing this claim?" The answer is, that's the reason for the gene question, valued lawmakers. The reason for his youth is that this claim is self-denially denied.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0073par0532	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0074par0533	Allah, We have made you say: "Allah."
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0534	Read the reason for his youth. Restoration in the area mentioned began in 2000.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0075par0535	What 2000?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0536	It is written that it began in 2007. Look at the reason, it says that restoration works began in 2007.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0075par0537	It's not just one street, it's how many streets.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0538	Again, the reason for the gene is that Mr. Suat Kılıç was registered in 2009. I'm asking you now: In 2007, restorations begin in the neighborhood. Citizens don't know the restorations have begun. What kind of logic is that? If the date Mr. Suat Kılıç had acquired the property of 2007 and the restoration had started in 2009, your alibi would have been correct; then you would have been right.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0075par0540	There are dozens of streets there. The defense is in vain, the defense...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0541	Like a wolf and a lamb. You decided to eat the lamb. You said a bad word to me last year. How could I forget him when he said, "No sir, I was not here last year, I was born this year." Even though he answered, "Then your brother said so." There is such a thing as being determined to eat the lamb. Yes, you're talking about the existence of a lot of citizens who sold their homes without knowing that they would be renovated in an area filled with ancient artifacts. However, look at the previous paragraph in the same genome, which states that restoration and street health treatment in the vicinity of Talatpaşa Boulevard, Karacabey Bath and nearby areas began in 2000.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0075par0543	It's not 2000, you're wrong. He's not in 2000.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0544	That's all there is to it. Read it, read it again.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0075par0545	Where do you have it?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0546	It is true that restoration studies in the region were concentrated in 2007. What's wrong is that Mr. Kılıç is claiming to have acquired real estate in the region, while it is not known by citizens to restore it. The year 2007, when the restoration studies in the region went much further back in history, was the year when the work was concentrated. The year of Mr. Kılıç is 2009. Thus, the most important argument expressed in the genotype and the main reason for the gene is being denied and eliminated by those who give the gene question in paragraph 1.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0075par0547	Bravo Yilmaz Bronze, bravo!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0076par0548	Do you believe what you're saying?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0549	Another argument in the genre is the usual argument in the process. The fact that the procedure, which is done through the power of attorney, is expressed as a rationale for the procedure, is a completely illegal twist.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0075par0550	Read who he gave power of attorney to. Who'd he give it to?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0551	Acquisition of property is an institution protected by the general rules of law. Are there any members of lawmakers who have signed the motion to get real estate?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0075par0552	Who did Yilmaz Bronze give the power of attorney to?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0553	Didn't they give you power of attorney when you acquired these real estates?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0075par0554	Who did he give it to, who did he give it to? Does the person who runs the project get a power of attorney?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0555	Taking possession through a proxy is the result of a trust relationship between parties, and it is only a matter for those concerned to decide.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0075par0556	Which way? The head of the building...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0557	The attempt to buy through power of attorney and present the deed as a violation of the law is in itself illegal.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0075par0558	That's how you do it in the municipalities.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0559	I don't think the law will protect this illegality. If there had been a procedure or a confidentiality record, Mr. Kılıç would not have taken this property, not upon it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0077par0560	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0561	You're talking about secrecy and regular procedures.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0078par0562	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0563	In what phase of this deed registration process is there privacy?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0078par0564	Every stage has its virtues, every stage.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0565	Isn't it obvious how obvious the transactions on the deed are, that you even have the power of attorney information?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0079par0566	Hide what?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0567	Where is this secret procedure?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0080par0568	What's open?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0081par0569	Who did he give power of attorney to?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0570	What's against the law?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0082par0571	He's a public servant. How is it right for a public servant to get power of attorney?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0572	What's against the rules? If there's going to be a political ethical debate here, dear friends, the real ethical problem is the aim of a politician with allegations of slander. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Let's rephrase: his gene is a serious institution.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0083par0575	Yilmaz Bronze, you're making a mistake. Look, there's a city bureaucrat who's been given power of attorney, a city bureaucrat; is there such a thing? Realtors, city bureaucrats?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0576	It's not a way for everyone who asks for it to be done any time.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0083par0577	What's it gonna be? This will be your refuge.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0578	Democracy is the corrupting of democratic control mechanisms, which are the real harm to our culture. Dear lawmakers, the argument in paragraph 7 of your unsubstantiated, unsubstantiated, unsubstantiated, unsubstantiated information is a clear slander, proof of the last point of the systematic false news fair. Note this article in this paragraph: buying houses and immediately restoring them by the municipality to ensure an enormous price increase.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0084par0581	It didn't?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0582	This is expressed in the 7th paragraph. It's a very heavy claim, precious lawmakers, to be slandered before the charge.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0084par0583	It didn't?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0584	In law, the burden of proof belongs to the person who claims it. And the owner of this claim is responsible for proving his claim. Could it be that the municipality is renovating a private property with municipal resources? It's inevitable that anyone who claims otherwise will have proof of his claim.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0085par0585	The mayor says, Mayor Veysel Tiryaki.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0586	It's the law's order to prove this claim by claiming it, it's the nature of political morality, you can't throw the slander away and move on to the sidelines of the argument. Otherwise, both logic and logic and law will haunt you and not let you go.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0086par0588	I'm ready to settle up.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0589	I believe this slander can also be made a case by Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0086par0590	No doubt! I'm looking forward to it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0087par0591	Don't threaten me!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0592	Accusations to the youth are baseless and coercional. There is no use of political influence in buying and handover transactions at all. At the same time, in the same area, there have been numerous purchases of real estate by private or corporate individuals in very different social positions with close numbers. There is no special situation in the trade process, which is the subject of the gene, and there is no initiative to call the use of influence. There is no ethical problem based on political ethical debate. In accordance with the rules that everyone is subject to, the kinds of procedures that everyone does are done within the framework of law enforcement. When he did not find a compelling argument to write to the motion, Mr. Kılıç was considered a criticism that he would make a statement through his lawyer rather than make a direct statement.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0088par0595	In his statement, his lawyer said, "Tell me, everything is true."
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0596	The claim of the deed is not related to Mr. Kılıç's Ministry, nor is it done after he became Minister.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0088par0597	The value of the house continues to increase...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0598	It's a deed registration process about two and a half years before the ministry was appointed.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0088par0599	He picked up the person he took the deed to during the Ministry, brought it to the Federation three months ago, why don't you tell me about it?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0600	In the face of such a situation, what could be more natural than for Mr. Kılıç to make a statement through his lawyer?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0088par0601	The explanation already states that everything is true.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0602	What's wrong with the lawyer explaining on behalf of the person concerned?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0088par0603	Do you know the explanation?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0604	What's forbidden, what's unethical?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0088par0605	Do you know the explanation?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0606	Is the profession of a lawyer a dirty, forbidden, ill-advised profession?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0088par0608	Do you know what you're doing in the statement?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0609	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have colleagues here.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0088par0610	Everything is true in the statement.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0611	Nearly a third of this roof comes from the practice of law enforcement. These sentences are impossible to understand. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are talking about democracy, the reputation of politics, and similar approaches in the motion for a gene. For the power of democracy, for the reputation of politics, politics above all and above all, politicians must not stand for baseless allegations.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0088par0613	It's all documented, it's all documented, it's all...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0614	The House shouldn't be exploiting its control routes.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0088par0615	I have no doubt, I have no doubt, Yilmaz Bronze.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0616	We know, we know, and our whole nation sees it. You're really, really right about one thing. Yes, there's one thing that's very difficult for you in this country, and that's opposition to the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0088par0618	I'm talking about corruption, corruption, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0619	Since nine years ago, opposition has been difficult for our faithful nation, who have spent their nights in the daytime. It is, of course, not easy to oppose a government that provides every aspect of our country with unimaginable actions in every field. Opposition to the tenth largest economy in the world, yes, it's very difficult.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0089par0620	And thou shalt speak of the hamam, and thy bath: forget them.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0090par0621	No stopping, keep robbing!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0622	Of course, you're wavering in the development of our country, in the establishment of the rule of law, in the face of a government that has made great strides in strengthening our democracy. This leads you to step away from project politics, doodling and tension politics. But we want the opposition to be free of this vicious cycle now; we want to compete in the ministry, in the project, in the goal of modern civilization. Believe me, it will be good for our country and good for you. Yesterday, under this great roof, we passed one of the most important laws for our country and our nation, our great Parliament, despite all obstructions of the law of education. There's law 2/B next, there's laws on disaster risk, there's laws on the construction of modern cities, there's laws on civil wages hikes, there's bills to speed up judicial services. Come, for the good of this country, for the good of our nation, let us do all this together, let us enter into the heart of our nation. Wouldn't that be better? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It is of no use to you or our country to stop the work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with geneors, the group proposals that we spend hours here to get on the agenda of the Assembly every day. That's one of the problems we're interviewing. The alleged incident in the motion for the gene is not based on any solid evidence.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0091par0626	Forbidden to those who eat, and forbidden to those who eat.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0092par0627	You don't know anything. I'll ask the minister, and I'll give him the document.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0628	There's absolutely no reason to open a gene question about our Minister. The allegations are all self-inflicted based on the reason of the gene question.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0093par0629	Let's just give him a medal!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0067par0630	The Minister should not be involved in the ministry's mission and its application. With these feelings and thoughts, we will vote against the motion of the geneor, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0094par0633	Thank you, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0095par0634	I'll see those clapping.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0096par0635	Forbidden to those who eat, and those who eat, and those who allow.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0095par0636	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0097par0637	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0095par0638	We'll see all those who call it clean politics.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0097par0639	Now it's time for Youth and Sports Minister Suat Kılıç. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0095par0642	Give it up, give it up, there's gonna be something here for every clapper, every clapper...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0098par0643	Way to go! Give it up, give it up, give it up, suck up, suck up.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0099par0644	Let's see how you pay.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0645	Mr. President, highly respected MPs, I salute your grand delegation. After a very busy 15-day shift, it's a matter of...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0101par0647	Get to the point, Minister, get to the point.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0648	I'd like to ask you all to forgive me for keeping your agenda occupied, indirectly, for making such a fuss.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0102par0649	Do what you need to do.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0650	We've listened to lawmakers for a long time. I hope they will reveal the same respect, respect, and understanding, the same kindness of listening and culture. We listened to one of our congressmen for ten minutes on behalf of the councilmen; we listened to a member of the Republican People's Party Group for 20 minutes; we listened to a member of our member of parliament on behalf of the National Movement Party Group for 20 minutes, and we listened to the Deputy Director of the Group on behalf of the BDP Group for 20 minutes. In the end, on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, we listened to Mr. Yilmaz Bronze MP again with the same understanding and courtesy. Everything's been said, and now he needs to hear the plaintiff's responses to his claims.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0103par0651	The last word is for the defendant.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0102par0652	I'm sitting across from you, Suat Sword, I'm listening.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0653	Dear lawmakers, if it's a mistake to get a real estate, it needs to be brought up with explanations and grounds. If it is a crime to find the property in Hamakön neighborhood, it must be brought forward with its grounds, with its evidence, with its legal evidence, with its documents. I think that if the real estate acquired area is also a renovated area, if it makes real estate development a crime, a crime, an ethical problem in that area, then the results, documents, legal documents should be presented.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0104par0654	It's already done.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0655	It's about the motion for the gene, Mr. Bronze, which has pointed to some very important points. Here, in the Hamamönu district, there is a claim that the citizen has no knowledge of restoration, renovations, and renovations conducted by both municipalities and individuals. And there are allegations that a loss of rights is at stake because the citizen is not aware of the renovations. In this regard, these allegations are heavy claims, but when looked at in other ways... I read the first sentence of the motion for the Gensoru motion: The City of Altundağ conducts a work in 2007 under the Talatpaşa Boulevard Karacabey bath and the Near Environment Health Work Project. It is true that the City of Altındağ has been conducting a comprehensive restoration study, which has been announced, based on systematic, conscious, zoning plans, starting in 2007. This information...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0105par0657	Health and restoration are different.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0658	It's in restoration, it's in restoration. As of 2007, the work is being systematically carried out, but the first date of restoration and healing work is not in 2007, but older. It is not only in the District of the Bath of Golddağ, but also in the vicinity of Talatpaşa Boulevard, but in the vicinity of the Hacibayram Mosque that these renovations began. When it is looked back, there appears to be the beginning of a long-term, past years, and even partially, Mr. Karayalçın's attempt to renew the province's municipality. Thus, the claim that people and people who have lived here in this region and who own property have no knowledge of them is completely baseless. It may be false information, but if you feel the need to build a geneor on false information, it is wise to verify it from the address of this false information. We're all under this roof. We're all congressmen after all. An information can be transmitted, the truth of this information can be investigated, it can be checked, it can be checked, it can be looked at from the front. This has not been taken care of. The date of which the deed was registered in my name is 2009.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0106par0662	How much money?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0663	One of the allegations is about this, and I'll make it clear right away.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0107par0664	You bought a house for half the price of the car. You bought it for half the price of a car, half the price of a car you sold.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0665	It was registered on 30/04/2009 on 30 April 2009.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0108par0666	At the bath house... you bought it for £9;25,000.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0667	One of the allegations here is that the power of attorney and the registrar's registration have been made. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Mr. Bronze has explained in detail here. I'll be back on track for the audience, but since I've had the benefit of confirming it, I think it needs to be said. The power of attorney is an institution organised by the law.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0109par0669	We know that, Suat Bey.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0670	It is necessary for a person who claims that there is any legal objection to acting as a guardian, acting as a proxy, taking over by proxy, or taking over by proxy.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0110par0671	It's not right for political ethics to buy from the place where the renovation is being conducted.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0111par0672	Who are you giving it to? Who are you giving it to?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0673	What's the legal problem with power of attorney? You have to understand that.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0112par0674	Mr. Suat, you give it to the man in the building, you give it to the project manager.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0675	What's the legal problem with power of attorney? Yeah, that could be...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0113par0676	Political ethics...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0112par0677	It has no political morality, no moral value.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0678	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, at the very beginning of my words, you didn't say anything edible.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0112par0679	Yeah, 'cause it's all documented.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0680	Even though you didn't say anything edible, the AK PARTY group and myself...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0112par0681	What you just said is wrong, too.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0682	...we listened to you in patience and calm.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0114par0683	But you're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0684	It's not because what you're saying is true...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0115par0685	It's all true, it's all true.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0116par0686	Dear Sky, please... please be patient...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0687	...we listened to you calmly because you were only involved in an attempt to exercise your rights due to the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0115par0688	You're giving false information. Mine's embezzlement papers.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0689	...and we've listened to you for weeks with the courtesy of being under this roof in silence, without causing any new tensions in the Parliament that's already been busy.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0115par0690	Don't give false information, don't give false information, Suat Sword. You're giving false information.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0691	It's a courtesy to know how to listen the same way now.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0115par0692	Your mayor's restoration has begun in 2008, he says. I'll explain.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0693	Look, you don't talk when you don't know how to listen.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0117par0694	Dear Sky, please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0695	You don't talk when you don't know how to listen.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0118par0696	He's giving false information, false information.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0117par0697	You've brought up your claims. Patience, please.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0698	If you believe what you're saying is true, you'll know how to listen.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0118par0699	Not everyone gets a power of attorney.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0700	There's a motion for a gene question, and everybody knows what this motion for a gene is for, to buy time on the agenda.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0119par0701	Exposing corruption.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0702	No.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0120par0703	What's on the agenda? I prepared it a month ago, a month ago.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0704	The newspaper that did the news, the newspaper that started the news, also uses this phrase...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0120par0705	Oh, that's the only reason you're gonna take refuge, isn't it?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0706	...the main opposition party, Minister of Youth and Sports Suat Kılıç...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0120par0707	Bravo!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0708	...and then Deputy Prime Minister Bashir filed a motion to ask about Atalay.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0120par0709	You're hiding behind this, bravo!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0710	To fill this out, to fill the backs of this, any legal and ethical offenses, any accusations...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0120par0711	Every step is a crime, every step is a crime.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0712	...to fill in non-inflicted issues like this and bring them here, precious MPs, there is no acceptable aspect, there is no dimension. The fact that I gave an officer at City Hall a power of attorney for the deed...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0120par0714	That person, the person who runs the project, Suat Kılıç, is running the project, the project.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0715	There is no legal obstacle, and there is no ethical obstacle.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0120par0716	He's running the project, you can't.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0717	He's not the one running the project, he's the one in the department, one officer, one officer.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0120par0718	You can't.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0121par0719	Mr. Sky, you've already stated that in your speech, please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0720	He doesn't buy real estate for me, he just accepts my name. What could be a crime in that, a crime in that for an officer, or an ethical problem in that for a politician?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0120par0721	The crime is that he knows where to restore it, and he's running a zoning operation.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0121par0722	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0723	You've moved things here that are impossible to explain...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0120par0724	You were caught red-handed.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0725	...and also, with the press conference that you've held, you've expressed so much that after that, we've made our statement through our lawyer because it has nothing to do with the Ministry, with the Ministry, with our ministry, with our time at the Ministry.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0122par0726	Officers can't pursue their duties, it's a crime.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0120par0727	Tell me, when did you make Erbil Yiğitbaş a member of the Federation?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0728	We made our statement through our lawyer.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0120par0729	You just did it three months ago, three months ago.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0123par0730	Mr. Sky, Mr. Sky...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0731	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0123par0732	Mr. Secretary, just a moment...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0733	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0123par0734	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0735	Look, you don't get heroes here, you don't get heroes here.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0124par0737	Who gave you the deed?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0738	I'm giving a press release through my lawyer. Accusations are slander.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0124par0739	Tell me three months ago if you changed the Federation.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0740	There's an attack on my personality rights, there's an assault on private property claims, allegations are unrealistic, facts are distorted. I'm making a statement through my lawyer.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0124par0741	Your lawyer already says it's true, we got it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0125par0742	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0743	This statement is not taken into account by the MP who held the press conference; this statement is not taken into account by media agencies who reported the press conference's statements, and in the conclusion, there is a statement in the motion that came to us by his lawyer to explain it himself.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0124par0744	Yeah, what is it? It's not wrong.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0745	What, for God's sake, is wrong, unethical, criminal, interfering with the law that's shameful to explain through his lawyer?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0124par0746	There's nothing there.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0747	The truth is, isn't the explanation done through the lawyer? About a quarter of the MPs in this parliament are lawyers.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0126par0748	It's not that.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0749	One-quarter of the MPs in this parliament are lawyers.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0127par0750	Suat Sword, this has nothing to do with this.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0751	Everyone has a proxy-client relationship. The other bet is...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0127par0752	None of this is relevant.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0753	How is that irrelevant? I'm talking about the sentences in the gene.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0127par0754	It's not relevant, it's relevant.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0755	One of the cases is this: the claim that the restoration was carried out by the municipality, by the City of Aldındağ, after I bought the estate.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0127par0756	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0757	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm here to make this clear and clear that I'm prepared to hand over the deed to the person who proved it, if there is a single rusty nail or a single broken brick of the City of Gold in the restoration study on my property.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0127par0759	I'll read you the Mayor's statement, then.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0128par0760	Let's give you a reading.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0761	You used your right to speak.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0127par0762	Let me read it and listen.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0763	You used your right to speak. It shouldn't be so easy to undermine your self-esteem. It shouldn't be so easy to attack people. The insult shouldn't be that easy.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0127par0765	Look what the Mayor has to say, Suat Kılıç.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0766	The slander shouldn't be so easy.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0127par0767	We did everything, he says.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0768	The slander shouldn't be so easy. These roads shouldn't be used so easily. The Turkish Grand National Assembly's Institution, the valued MPs, are at our disposal. In the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the control mechanisms for the executive body have been counted, single-handedly determined, and in what circumstances, under what circumstances, and how many lawmakers will be used.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0129par0770	Pay up, leave it alone.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0771	His gene is one of them, and his gene is perhaps the first of the most important control mechanisms. When drafting a motion for a geneorization, the contents of this must either be prepared by knowing what it is or with the headshots of the allegations.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0130par0772	You're gonna quit anyway.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0773	Is that even possible? Is that even possible? Is that a claim?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0130par0774	None of what you're saying is true.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0775	It's all true, it's all true.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0130par0776	None of it's true.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0777	It's all true, it's all true.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0130par0778	I have the mayor's statements. I'll read you the explanations now.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0779	It's all true. I'll make another point...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0131par0781	You're used to lying at a very young age.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0782	In action from your press conference...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0131par0783	You started at a very young age.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0784	...in a media establishment, my claim to share a real estate partnership with Anakent Municipality, and four or five private individuals has been brought to light, valued lawmakers, two pieces of property that I've also purchased... The house I bought is one, but because of the construction practices done in the previous years, an 8.6-metre stake in the addition of this real estate is being thought of as another land that has a majority ownership in other people.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0132par0786	16 square meters.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0787	Eight and a half square feet of myself. I'd like to state immediately that the shareholders on the estate mentioned are all, all valued MPs... Look, you may have been wrong about the fact that you weren't given all this information.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0133par0790	I've got it, I've got it, I've got it, I've got it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0791	It may not all have been given to you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0133par0792	I've got it all.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0793	If so, follow the documents you have.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0133par0794	I've got it, I've got it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0795	Property information, 1513/5 parcels, Ankara Municipality...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0134par0796	Turgutlu City Hall or Ankara City Hall?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0797	... 2,304 for 11,840 shares, registration date February 15, 1951 for construction. Bakizar Keskin at 11:840, 160 at the faithful Yilmaz 35.520, 9,600 at Doğan Gür 11:840, 3,008 at Nilgun Dincharslan at 370 denominators, 83 at the 38th and Suat Kılıç at 185 denominators. For what? The clerk I bought is due to the eight and six square meters of real estate that we had to buy during purchase during the purchase of the first owner because of the suspicion that had been brewed by the old construction practices of the Ankara house. It's the property right here, and it's who owns the house on top of it. He's also immovable: Ankara Altındağ, Altındağ TSM, TSM, TSpu Register Office -- neighborhood, village name; Inönü neighborhood 1,513/5...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0135par0800	Mr. Suat, this has nothing to do with this. Mr. Suat, you're running out of time.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0801	No, no, no, no, I'm answering your claims about what you said.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0136par0802	Mr. Secretary, four minutes to go, no answer to my question?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0803	Beyan, the property beneficiary; one of the three wooden houses on this parcel belongs to Mustafa, one belongs to Fikriye, Fikriye, Fevziye, and the other house belongs to Hdir Özcan.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0137par0804	I've got one, too.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0805	Vesica's here. Here's the document, the document.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0138par0806	Get in the car, get in the car, get in the car.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0137par0807	I know that information.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0808	Here's the document.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0139par0809	Mr. Secretary, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0137par0810	What are you trying to tell me? I know that information.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0811	The other thing... the other thing...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0140par0812	You sold your car to Turtle City City City for more than zero.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0813	The claim that I bought a restored Ankara house... that's what I got.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0140par0814	Why don't you come to the Turtle Town Hall?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0815	That's how it is when I get it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0141par0816	We said Suat Kılıç, who was known to be in the restaurant.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0817	And then you claim that it was restored by the City of Altındağ.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0141par0818	Look, I'll tell you what the mayor said about this.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0819	What paragraph of the gene motion? I'll tell you right away, there's a claim in paragraph seven that it was restored by the City of Altındağ. Dear lawmakers, there is a concept in both law and language, as I call it, and I'll leave it to you, please, to freedom.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0142par0821	Would you like to come to Turgutlu City Hall?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0822	I'm on my way to Turtle's...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0143par0823	Suat Sword, you didn't say anything about any of this, you didn't say anything.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0144par0824	Dear Sky, please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0825	Although it has nothing to do with the essence, the summary, the content and so on...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0145par0826	Did you pay for this restoration, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0827	...Mr. Hasan Kören used the right to speak on behalf of the signatories of the Civil Code as MP of Manisa, and eventually brought up an issue of 2004. It's true that it was sold by a Volkswagen commercial vehicle with 06 plates.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0146par0829	Is it true it was sold to the city?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0830	That's right. Right there at work, dear friends, from that point on, your compulsion begins.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0147par0832	No...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0148par0833	Why?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0834	The strain begins at that point. The place where we sold the car is a company called TURKAP, a company called TURKAP.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0147par0835	100 per cent of the municipality, 100 per cent of the municipality.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0149par0836	100 per cent of the municipality.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0837	The vehicle is being sold on track value from similar locations...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0150par0838	So, did you sell it for more than it's worth?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0151par0839	One hundred percent is a municipal company.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0840	...and eventually a company called TURKAP buys it, a company called TURKAP.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0150par0841	Who are the partners of the city's companies, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0842	Dear lawmakers, there's no way that I can see on that company's dog tags whether or not a private law firm has municipal thanks. There's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, [HPP, MHP and BDP rankings ▪Bravo/!) Their voices, applause (!) On the other hand, Mr. Hasan Ören, the MP speaking...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0152par0845	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0846	Dear lawmakers, this is not the first time this has come to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This is the fourth time this has been on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The first time he came...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0153par0847	He hasn't come yet, he never has.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0848	Read the hungry transcripts...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0153par0849	The group's Deputy President Kemal Anadol was sitting down and he just sent you a message.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0154par0850	Mr. Ören, you've made your claims here.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0851	The 2010 Constitutional Amendment talks, the 26-point constitutional amendment package, were considered 26 points in the public vote we took to the referendum.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0153par0852	Mr. Secretary, how much did you sell it for, how much did you sell it for?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0853	...the issue was brought up during the negotiations of the constitutional amendment package by Mr. Kemal Anadol, who was then acting Group Chairman of the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0155par0854	How much did you sell it for, how much?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0855	It was also mentioned in the past, in 2005, by Mr. Hasan Ören...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0156par0856	How much did you sell it for?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0857	...Manisa was sent to the public, media, perhaps on the basis of local politics.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0157par0858	Tell us about the partnership in Wednesday.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0859	Newspaper clippings are still available. The other thing, the same thing...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0158par0861	How much did you sell it for, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0862	I'll tell you right now. I'll tell you right now.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0159par0863	Tell me about Wednesday's electricity. Who's that Galib Ozturk?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0864	Mr. Ören, you have stated in your claim that you are well aware of the vehicle's transactions and that you are well aware of what the car is worth.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0160par0865	On the basis of the check you received... leave the notary sale...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0161par0866	Aren't you ashamed of selling cars to the public?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0867	You've made a statement as to which vehicle would be worth what, when you brought up your claims on this matter...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0160par0868	It's all here, I'll show you now.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0869	...and you made a $37,000 emphasis on my vehicle.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0160par0870	Sir?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0871	You said 37,000 lira for my purchase of the vehicle.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0160par0872	Thirty-seven thousand to forty thousand pounds of car; it's full and it's useless.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0873	So let's fix it, up to 42,000 liras.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0160par0874	Okay.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0875	Up to $42,000 in full.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0160par0876	That's right.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0162par0877	And for $7,000, you had it made.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0878	The notary's sales certificate is here, the notary's notary's notarized vehicle's sale to ENGLISH.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0160par0879	Here's the check you got from me.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0880	Here's the bill of sale to ENGLISH. Sales price, insurance value, first the insurance value is 41.920 lira...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0160par0881	Good!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0882	The insurance value is $41.920.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0163par0883	As Minister, aren't you ashamed to sell cars to the public?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0884	So, as you claim, it's not $37,000, it's $41.920, which has the insurance value of the second-hand sale.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0164par0885	How much did you sell it for? How much did you take from the bank?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0886	I read it from here, I read it from the document, I read it from the document: the price of the car is $49,000.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0165par0887	I want to sell my car dearly, teach me, HENRY SPRING (Manisa).......... (Manisa)...........
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0889	Okay. If you know about these things, as you say in your speech -- which you know -- there are renovations in which such vehicles are being converted into vehicles.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0166par0890	No wonder it's done for 20 liras.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0891	I don't remember where it was done, and I don't know if you remember it better than I do.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0166par0892	I know where you got it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0893	The total value of the vehicle, along with the renovations, is, of course, on top of the naked purchase value of the vehicle, and on the market conditions when it's being sold...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0167par0895	Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0100par0896	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0167par0897	No, we're not, Mr. Secretary, and I'm not giving you time to thank you. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, Applause!]
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0168par0899	Give the Minister time, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0169par0900	Mr. Secretary, continue, give me a few more minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0170par0901	Tell me about your cannibals at Chankaya City Hall.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0171par0902	I'd like a word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0172par0903	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0171par0904	This way? On the stand...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0172par0905	No, from your place. Mr. Sky, you have said your claims here for 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0171par0906	All right, all right.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0172par0907	Here, I'll give you a minute. Enter the system, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0171par0911	Thank you, Mr. President. We're in the middle of something really important. I'm a 27-year-old politician. I've never seen a minister so helpless in my political life. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Mr. Secretary has not responded to any of our claims, has not responded to any of our claims that we've made.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0173par0915	You don't understand, you don't understand.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0171par0916	He says: I did it on my own terms. I'm telling you now to explain to the mayor of Altındağ, my friends. Altındağ Mayor Veysel Tiryaki says that we have met almost all of it with municipal means. Take it, be ashamed, be ashamed, be ashamed!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0174par0918	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0175par0919	Lies! Lies! Lies!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0176par0920	You don't fit in those seats!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0177par0921	Be a man, quit. Here, take it! I'll give all the documents to your Group Chairman deputies, and they'll look into it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0178par0923	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0179par0924	Here you go, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0178par0928	Mr. Secretary, is there any difference between the notary sale of this vehicle and the money you received? How much did you sell notaries for, how much did you get? So you're saying you got $49,000. How much does this car cost you? It's $45,000, it's $46,000, it's $47,000. Please write that down, tell me. Is it true that when you sell a car to your own municipality for $49,000, you admit that you're selling more than zero? So did you sell the car for 51 billion, or 55, or 60? How much did you cost, and how much did you sell it for?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0180par0929	It's now being manufactured.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0178par0930	Please take this stand, Mr. President, and let him answer.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0181par0931	You asked your question, I'll let you, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0178par0932	How much did you cost, how much did you sell it to the Turtle Town Hall?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0181par0933	Thank you, Mr. Kören. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0182par0935	Mr. President, first of all, a blackout... I just told you on the stand that the car was sold to a company called turgutlu City Hall.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0183par0938	100 percent of the municipality...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0184par0939	You've asked a question, please listen to the answer, members of lawmakers.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0182par0940	There's no way for me to know if this company is the company of the Turgut City Hall. (CHP rows) I made the necessary explanation, the necessary explanation for this matter. I have no way of knowing who is among the partners of a private law firm, and I'm not authorized to do that kind of research.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0183par0942	I don't see how! Look, don't you know who you sold your car to?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0185par0943	That's not the right answer, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0182par0944	The other thing is, there's been no inspection at the Turtle City Hall. In 2006, in 2006, in 2007, we were informed that there had been audits in 2009 by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and by the Court's auditors.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0186par0945	Be a boy, quit, come on!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0182par0946	So that's all I have to say when I look at it in this frame, and I don't have to say anything more.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0187par0948	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Members of parliament, talks have been completed on whether or not the motion to ask for a motion on Youth and Sports Minister Suat Kılıç is on the agenda.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0188par0950	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0187par0951	Please, Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0188par0952	Sir, yes, but...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0187par0953	Please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0188par0954	Just a minute to get him on the books...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0187par0955	Mr. Vural, no, I've started talking...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0189par0956	Mr. Secretary, you're going to raid and raid the companies of the city of Izmir, and you're costing those companies to the mayor of Izmir. You sold a car to a place of 100 per cent belonging to the City of Turgut.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0187par0957	Mr. Kören, please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0190par0958	Mr. President, I don't think...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0187par0959	Please enter the system...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0190par0960	No, I don't need to get into the system.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0187par0961	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0190par0962	The Minister said: "There was no municipality." So, who did this restoration, it's useful to express the matter.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0191par0963	Oh, my God! Then prove it!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0187par0964	Mr. Vural, everyone's gonna have to make up their minds. The question has been asked, and the Minister has answered, and he has spoken for the second time. Everyone's gonna have to make a judgment call.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0192par0965	Mr. Secretary said it all.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0193par0966	What about Wednesday Electric? Wednesday didn't answer about electricity.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0187par0967	Members of parliament, talks have been completed on whether or not the motion to ask for a motion on Youth and Sports Minister Suat Kılıç is on the agenda. Now, I'm going to submit to your votes on whether or not the motion of the gene will be brought up: those who have agreed to the motion of the gene... those who have refused to accept it... the motion of the gene is not accepted. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, CHP and MHP rows (!)
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0194par0969	Way to go, bravo.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0195par0971	Suat Sword, don't think you're being cleared, you're not.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit01spe0187par0972	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit02spe0187par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 87th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue to discuss the agenda's special agenda. We are starting talks on whether to raise a gene-responsor motion on Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay (11/9) for the alleged abuse of his position in the investigation process of the Lighthouse Association. Government? He's in position.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit02spe0196par0006	Mr. Bashir will be here.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit02spe0197par0007	Oh, yeah? No, it's not about you, it's a motion for a gene. Well, then, if the Minister of Justice had sat down...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit02spe0187par0008	Mr. Atalay will come, sir, he's coming.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit02spe0197par0009	It's happening, isn't it, sir? So should the government sit down or the concerned minister?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit02spe0187par0010	The government needs to sit down, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit02spe0197par0011	So, in a manner of speaking...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit02spe0187par0012	Yeah, no, I'm not. The motion has already been printed and distributed, and I am not having it reread because it was read in the 83rd edition of the General Assembly, dated 27/3/2012. Members of parliament, under Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the Council of Ministers, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a prime minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers will be promised in this meeting. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motionr, 20 minutes for the group and the government. Congressmans, I started to keep you waiting, or Mr. Atalay will be here, if you want, I'll put you on hold.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit02spe0198par0017	Take a break, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit02spe0199par0018	Take a break, Mr. Secretary, and let him listen because there are allegations against him.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit02spe0187par0019	Now, I'm reading the names of the members in question...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit02spe0198par0020	You asked us, Mr. President, to take a break.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit02spe0200par0021	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit02spe0201par0022	I understand you're waiting for him to come, but I think if we take a five-minute break...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit02spe0202par0023	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0202par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 87th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue to discuss the agenda's special agenda. Proposed, Free Private, Manisa MP. On behalf of the groups: Atilla Kart, Konya MP on behalf of the People's Party Group; On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Group, Altan Tan, Diyarbakır MP; Sadir Durmaz, Yozgat MP on behalf of the People's Party Group. In the name of the government: Bashir Atalay, Deputy Prime Minister. Now, the first word is Free Special, Manisa MP, as a motion holder. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0203par0010	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Today, we're having a gene interview here. He's got two genes in a row on two very important issues of political ethics, political ethics, but it's good to go back and refresh their memory a little bit. In recent days, German President Christian Wulff had to resign his post in Germany. His problem was that when he was Prime Minister of Lower Saxony State, he used a loan from a friend with interest under market rates, and part of the process that led him to resign was to call the newspaper Bild and undermine my relations with you. Don't be too hard on him. However, during our time in Turkey, if you just listen to Mr. Minister's own statements, there is a problem that has been dealt with in terms of political ethics. After that, of course, here, we even rejected the motion of the ruling party's vote to move on to generic negotiations. Let's see, the other day here was perhaps the most shameful thing in the history of the Republic and our democracy. A ruling party MP sitting in the front row of one of our MPs attacked and attacked him on the stand just as he spoke his views. Deputy Speaker of Parliament has studied according to the Civil Code, a elected Speaker of Parliament from your party, and has said: "This should be condemned, but only the Supreme Assembly will give a congressman this punishment. It has been submitted to your votes and you have not even dared to abstain, and you have prevented this punishment from being condemned. When the prosecutors tried to handle the matter a little more seriously about what we're about to talk about at the lighthouse, they were investigated. And now they're being prosecuted. Now, to be clear, everything we're going to talk about here today about Mr. Besir Atalay is actually the basic approach of the ruling party in Turkey, which shows AKP's understanding of power and the government's view of corruption and poverty. What's with the lighthouse? The Lighthouse issue, the Lighthouse case, is the biggest corruption case in our republic's history. The Lighthouse case is the greatest exploitation of conscience. The Republic is the most serious use of religion in our history, the Lighthouse case. The Lighthouse case is proof of the most open intervention in the history of the Republic. The greatest man is nepotism. It's the greatest shame of democracy to use public power to cover up crime and crime. The Lighthouse case, the biggest claim for a minister, is a disgrace of democracy, a public administration, where the claim of espionage is a crime, a crime, a crime, to inform close names on a court of law file that is being carried out. (Applause from CHP rows) The Lighthouse case is the ruling party's turnsol paper because it is the institutionalization of a party that distances from poverty and corruption in 2002, a method they have come to fight poverty and corruption. The Deniz Lantern case, which they left for living 50 years ago, and perhaps a poor parent they left in Anatolia, even the arson they left for them, went to the extant hands to provide them with food and food, where they earned it, where they worked very hard, where they worked very hard, where they called themselves the Germans, the extremists, the separatists, the people who were there, the people who were second-class citizens, the people who earned it with a sense of loyalty, and gave it to the poor in order to give it to the poor people in their country, to give it to give it to give it to them for freedom, and then to embezzle it to whom these people, and to Turkey, who were using it to fight for a specific purpose, and to find justice, and then it was determined by the people who were found there, in order to be found in Turkey's state of justice, and to be found in order to be poor in Turkey. So the head of protection is calling from a phone dedicated to the Ministry to make a call in a day's time. He's not hiding the issue, he's showing it as normal, he says it's a phone call that he can make. Mr. Secretary is doing this, it's a shame, he has to leave the Ministry immediately. The minister falls directly if it's in the European parliaments, but believe me, the Minister's flaw is the part of the iceberg that can be seen in its total flaws, because the Minister, the government and the Prime Minister, in his entire presence, are the subject of the Lighthouse case, in its belly, and is the bearer in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0204par0017	You yelled a lot, but the applause was low.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0203par0018	In Turkey, the South Sea Field Command sees it as a law requirement, but in the case of the Sea Lantern case, Turkey will be shaken exactly as it normally is in the media's view, in which the issue will remain in the 1st and months, when a critical officer, such as the South Sea Field Commander, can be arrested and placed in prison with a decision, while the issues of the media may be revealed, while Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Brikent Arincûn, the tears and the voices of his conscience, and the voices of the RTün case, while Turkey is in charge of shaking the media's appearance, the issue will be left in the very position and for months, with the heavy media power, as well as well as the media's power. We are at a point where the Justice and Development Party sometimes uses its so-called social state to fight poverty, withdraws the state from this area, eliminates objective criteria of the Social Solidarity and Helping Foundation, effectively and openly and openly the ruling party's neighborhood representatives, village representatives, agency administrators, have been given social benefits in order to combat poverty. The most obvious example of these things is the Lighthouse, but the government is not uncomfortable with this going on, and it is clear that it is now under law that our minister of health -- Mr. Health -- is sitting in a very convenient place -- by chance -- where the hospital lanterns have opened the way. According to Code 663, health care can be offered voluntarily and free of charge for social solidarity and assistance in places where real and legal persons are authorized to provide health care. The warrants for this will be filed. They can serve in cases such as receive, information, escort, personal care, and later visits at home. Look, the state provides such services, even in health care, and provides the way for social solidarity and assistance, which say it can provide such services fully independent, free of charge. This has made children who were going to go to certain dorms at bus terminals, where certain foundations, representatives of certain congregations, are provided at the entrances of hospitals with legal and legal decrees, and what are you doing here, my friend?.... what are you doing here?.. what are you doing here?...? Our constitution, however, is very clear, and it is a public service. Public service must be provided by public servants, by public officials. Very soon, we will be confronted by the hospital lanterns, the health beacons, and the social security lanterns, and we will see that the services that must be done by the state's hand will be done in this form from now on. In our consciences, Mr. Secretary is guilty, unethical, illegal.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0205par0022	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0203par0023	That's why we're discussing his activities with today's generator, and I'm saying that we're going to vote for him insecurity. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0205par0026	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Attila Kart, MP of the Conium. Here you go, Mr. Card.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0206par0029	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay on behalf of my group on the genotype of the Republican People's Party Group. On behalf of myself and my group, on behalf of the Republican People's Party, I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has been discussing the Lighthouse incident since 2008. Why do we care so much about the Lighthouse investigation as the Republican People's Party? Why do we insist on this investigation? Why is the government interfering with the investigation process, and why is the evidence being obscured? Why are the ministers interfering with the investigation process at the expense of perjury? Why don't the ministers do what legal reports, official reports, and why do they deny the existence of these reports? Why is Turkey's agenda centrally deflected during the crucial phase of the Lighthouse investigation? Are you ready to answer or question these questions, my dear friends? Are we ready to face the Lighthouse reality? Look, dear lawmakers, let's take a trip: May 14, 1997, a meeting at Dortmund Westfallen Stadium, a meeting with 30,000 people, a journey that begins with a demonstration. Who was at this meeting on this trip? İstanbul Metropolitan Mayor Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Ankara Metropolitan Mayor Mr. Melih Gökçek, YIMPAŞ Executive Board Chairman Mr. Dursun Özgür and another picture that completes these relations: Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalalay, Zahit Akman, Zechariah Karaman, Dursun Haber and Veli Korkmaz are also present at the meeting. Who won't be afraid? The mayor of today's Kırıkkale. Because of his dealings with YIMPAŞ, you have been sued by dozens of cases due to qualified fraud and have been dropped by 1999 pardon, by the way. So, my dear friends, who organized this meeting on May 14, 1997? Who organized this meeting? The esteemed MPs are a person who organizes the meeting, who is known to serve as a member of the Diet and is still a prime minister and is known in the community as Sheikhulism. I don't want to make the government's connections to the government, to the Council of Ministers any more concrete, and I'm sure you know them very well. We don't want to make this personal. Look, dear lawmakers, we're not looking to condemn this move right away or be executed without a trial, we're not in the middle of that kind of preconception. We're trying to tell you what happened by identifying chronology and actors. What purpose was this action intended for? In accordance with his own principles, I stress, did he maintain his original ideology and idealism, which he asserted, and promised, according to his own principles? Did he stand by his promises to the people? We look at it, we question it, we answer for it. Let's face the reality of the Lighthouse before we show reflex and feel defensive, and show this courage and self-esteem as a representative of the nation. This is also a requirement of our parliamentary position and of our responsibility. See, valued lawmakers, the Lighthouse Association, founded to help the poor, the needy, are mainly operating in Germany, Turkey. While the Justice and Development Party came to power in 2002, we see that the Lighthouse works were especially protected by political power, that the Association was privileged in its field, that legitimacy was created internationally, that the Lighthouse was wanted to be branded by the government. The prime minister's office, January 29, 2003, and one of its first acts, operates on Lighthouse status in the first place. State Department 1. His apartment is no good to the public, you are not organized throughout Turkey. He says, he refuses, cancels this operation, but the Prime Minister is determined to perform one more time in March, and the Court rejects it once again. The government won't give up, it's steady on its way, this time at the end of 2004, making legal changes, making laws, editing the Association's Law, getting the Association status of the Lighthouse Association that works for the community, and starting to get help without permission, according to the Benevolent Law, the aid collected by the Association is suddenly starting to fold. On the other hand, the state is taking over the Society with all its resources, with all its organs, and it's starting to create international legitimacy. In 2007, the Parliament awarded the Turkish Parliament's Supreme Service Award for being a leader in social responsibility, on the grounds that all transactions were under record when Mr. Arinc was President. It's not enough, and the old stuff of the House is donated to the Society. Mr. Arinc later reveals his own reaction by saying, "God damn it after the truth has come out." But this response has never been able to save Mr. Arinc from legal and conscientious responsibility. The relationship of Zechariah Karaman, one of the key names of the Lighthouse, is so strong that on 28 July 2008 he had a strong relationship with the Prime Minister and the President at midnight at Çukurambar. On February 1, 2008, the International Symposium of Poverty -- which will certainly be represented by the government -- with a representation attended by Mr. Hayati Yazri. That's not enough. Who's in? General Secretary of the Islamic Conference, Professor Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu is attending the meeting. In this way, the Lighthouse is being provided with the necessary contribution, the necessary service, to gain legitimacy internationally. Hüseyin Çelik says on November 6, 2007: "Every school is also a Lighthouse. " In fact, he puts Lighthouses as an example for national education, and he does his part. You're also looking at the fact that Bitlis Tekel warehouses are being rented, and there's another influential deputy in power, the governor of the state. That monopoly warehouse is leased to that association. He's being leased in front of the governor and his public defender. There's been a dissemination of the chief inspector who identified the rent as irregular. That person has to leave the mission. The Capital Market Control Board prepares a report dated 1 March 2007, saying: "Zekeriya Karaman, İsmail Karahan, Mustafa Çelik, due to their irregular transactions on Mustafa Çelik, they must be detained for one to three years in prison. But after that, the superior forces come in, and that report is reversed, and they are not processed. We continue: While the Minister of Justice -- Minister of Justice of the Return -- Mehmet Ali Şahin (also) was in a meeting at the German Embassy regarding the petty crime of a German citizen, we see that he was following the issue again, in a sense, from the German Embassy, from the inside, in a way, concerning the investigation of the Lighthouse in Germany. Why are we talking about this, my dear friends, the esteemed lawmakers? In the face of this process, it is clear that the responsibility belongs to the government and its chief justice ministers. In this framework, we also say that the law enforcement mechanism should be run for government and justice ministers. As the Republican People's Party, of course, we will do our duty in this matter. But where we come from, there are some studies of Mr. Bashir Atalay, whose work in all the ministries has been sustained, which we have felt the need to bring up today. As the work of the Lighthouse continues at full speed in Turkey, you see that in Germany, on 25 April 2007, the box of Pandora was opened when the German police raided the building in Germany and many homes. The incident is on the agenda of Turkey with the detention of people including Mehmet Gürhan. Mehmet Gürhan, who claims not to know Mehmet Gürhan, appears to have been in contact with Mehmet Gürhan for about an hour at the Lighthouse and Canal 7 building in Frankfurt. I'm talking about concrete events, documents, findings. In September 2008, the German prosecutor, who completed the preliminary investigation in 15 months and 16 months, prepares the indictment. The evidence is so solid, it's so solid that since all the evidence is collected in order, the court concludes the trial within a month and sets up its verdict. As a result of the trial, the court finds that the donation receipts were brought to Germany by the transport of Canal 7/, that the assistance that appeared in Kosovo were imaginary, that the images showing Mehmet Gürhan and Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan together were taken in the European studios of Canal 7. According to the findings, the organization was under the direction of Zechariah Karaman. More importantly, during the summary of the ruling, the court's chief also makes the following statement: "We are facing the biggest donation fraud in Germany, but the real criminals are in Turkey." He calls İsmail Karahan, Zechariah Karaman and Zahid Akman. The court rules that the Lighthouse Association is a means for illegal transfer of money to companies, a front company, an association. After that, in Turkey, the people and organisations, including our president, are starting to file criminal charges. The government has to act. For some reason, the prime minister is extremely uncomfortable and makes some statements by targeting the broadcast media organizations directly. Prosecutors tasked with continuing the investigation are doing their duty in earnest, in responsibility, in care, without violating confidentiality, leaking information in such a critical case, without causing the execution of suspects without trial. They're moving from the evidence to the suspects. They never forget they're prosecutors of the Republic and the Republic. As the investigation deepens, the scale of the work and the network of dirty relationships begin to emerge. And that's when we see a period when direct political power-oriented and institutional pollution was created, when false statements were made. Let me give you a few concrete examples: The head of the Association of Associations is preparing a 34-page report dated March 25th, when Mr. Besir Atalay was in charge of the office of the Association of the Association of Lighthouses. He says there are elements of forgery in the documents. It says that there is a violation of the Law on the Collection of Help. The public benefit has lost its status, he says. That's a 34-page report. Although the existence of such a report is stable and undisputed, the Ministry of Interior tells the daily Cumhuriyet in its response dated 21/12/2009: "There is no report that it should be removed from the status of an association working for the public. Our proposal (7/10045) was issued under the signature of Sadullah Ergin, dated 1/6/2010, referring to the Finance Ministry's 29/12/2009 report that there is no information, document and report on the Association. So both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Turkey are lying. Its response to our proposal was 26/2/2010. Reports issued in 2007 and 2009 regarding the Marine Lantern have again made false statements, stating that the conditions sought for providing the status of a community that works for the public benefit are still in existence. Finally, phone records and phone calls. Look, dear lawmakers, on October 16th -- about a day before the calls were made -- at 10:19 p.m., who is the minister's personal bodyguard calling from the Home Office's phone? He's on the phone with the mayor's use. He's on the phone for 134 seconds. Karabağ's defense, the defense of the chief of security:, Sir, we usually call and let you know where the Minister is the next day? The next day, Minister, in Iraq, with the Prime Minister, my dear friends in Iraq. 48 seconds after this meeting, Mayor Veli Korkmaz calls the phone of Hayat Visual Publishing Corporation, calls Mustafa Çelik for 44 seconds, learns the home phone number of Mustafa Çelik. He's 0318... calling from a fixed phone belonging to the mayor of Kırkkale, Mustafa Çelik Oi, 0216... on a landline, 113 seconds. The defense of Kormaz is: "Sir, since our wives have also met, we did not want to talk on the cell phone, but we wanted to talk on the fixed phone. That's how the spouses met with the mayor's office in Bırıkkale. Clearly, these relationships, my dear friends, are not possible to explain them with concepts such as the concept of coincidence or the normal flow of life. All these issues are also confirmed by the prosecutor's confessions and other documents of Ismail Karahan, a member of the Channel 7 Governing Body. Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay is in all phases of this process, my dear friends. Look, of course, we don't have to do an execution here, but I'm talking to you about serious and concrete findings. You can appreciate, my dear friends, that these findings, the way they are, are not significant. A little compassion, a little conscience, a little responsibility, he can't possibly say that. Come, make an assessment in order to protect the law of Bashir Atalay. Look, it's not Mr. Bashir Atalay who is the mole. All institutions of the Republic of Turkey have become mobile in critical issues and investigations related to political power. Look, the same painting continues in the Lighthouse process. Do you know what the Department of Justice investigators are doing, investigating prosecutors who have been discharged? They keep doing the same thing. In the article dated August 18th, by violating the secrecy of the investigation by stating the suspects being followed by technical surveillance, further, take the necessary measures to the suspects. They're actually setting up grounds to black out the evidence, valuable MPs. Are you going to ignore them? Aren't you going to question them? Aren't these remarkable? Look, covering up the network of relationships in the Lighthouse process and blackening evidence is so important to the government, so important. A suspect shows up, says a suspect... I don't give his name, I don't give his name for safety. He says that we, Zechariah Karaman, Mustafa Çelik and Ismail Karahan met several times in Turkey and Germany. A person I did not want to give his name to came and gave us instructions. • Who is this person? Who's the key? This person, it seems, is on top of the Karamans as well. Aren't you curious about this person?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0207par0058	We do.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0206par0059	Aren't you curious about this person? What is the relationship between this person and Bashir Atalay? What is the government's relationship with this person? What is the relationship between this person and the Prime Minister? Aren't you curious about that? Are you ready to face them? Do you have the courage? Look, these relationships, you know what they are? Turkey and Germany are blocking their relationship, my dear friends. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Turkey and Germany are blocking their relationship. You need to evaluate these.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0208par0062	Mr. Card, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0206par0063	One moment, Mr. President, one moment, if I may...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0208par0064	You know, Mr. Card. Please, please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0206par0065	One sentence, let me put it this way. My dear friends, to your conscience, to your sense of responsibility, isn't this painting my hand is a painting? Can we look into the eyes of our children, our relatives, our people, and address the conscience of the public and say, "Long live justice?"
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0208par0067	Mr. Card, please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0206par0068	Otherwise, I don't care about justice. I'm capable, I'll mind my own business when I get the chance.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0208par0069	Mr. Card...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0206par0070	It's yours to admire.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0208par0072	Thank you, Mr. Card. Mr. Arinc misinformation Mr. Kart's name on the Lighthouse. You are stating that you wish to make a brief statement according to the Civil Charter 69. What did he say and give false information? I have to ask.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0209par0074	Mr. President, we've been talking about this ever since. In the sentence expressed, he spoke of my position on the Lighthouse and said it in a way that could be interpreted against the government.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0208par0075	Here's to the stand. I'll give you two minutes, Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0209par0079	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, thank you very much. Mr. President, it would be better if you didn't behave badly. Perhaps it would be nice if you could give Mr. Card one more minute and give me three more minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0208par0081	No, I'm giving everyone the same time.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0209par0082	Because I may not be able to complete an argument in two minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0210par0083	Mr. President, there's bullying.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0209par0084	First of all, I'd like to thank my Free Private Attila Card friends. Mr. Attila Kart, as always, in judgmental sentences, but often misjudged. I have a total of four conversations about the Lighthouse incident. One of them was Zahid Akman, the head of this institution, who was named Zahid Akman, when I was in charge of the RTÜK, as Deputy Prime Minister. During my first meeting with him, your name is often mentioned in this case, and you are worn out in the institution. So I said, I want you to leave the office. There have been controversial days, but his time has expired, and he has left the presidency of the institution.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0211par0087	You couldn't afford it!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0209par0088	Second: I know the Lighthouse's organization in Turkey, I don't know Germany, and I made it very clear at that time. I also attended his work in Turkey, provided financial support myself, and my wife took the fabrics of the cannon, planted clothes for friends, small children, and delivered them door - to - door. And I still help this Association, and I still believe that this Association is solid, decent, raw, but I don't know Germany. It's true that when I was Speaker of Parliament, I gave them material, and I explained them then with questions. But remember, my presidency lasted five years. It was out of the dorms, and I've upgraded all the equipment from this agency. I've provided supplies for organizations and foundations, especially for public benefit. These include the Lighthouse. It's a plate, it's a fork, it's a spoon. In fact, with all due respect, in those dates, in 2002, the lawmakers know -- to say that I acted out of line, Mr. Baykal would know much better -- we had a congressman named Ali Riza Gülçeçek, who was an Istanbul MP... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There, time's up!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0212par0091	Thank you, Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0213par0092	Tell us, tell us, and we'll find out.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0214par0093	Tell me, tell me.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0212par0094	Mr. Arinc, there's nothing I can do. Groups object, there's nothing I can do. Application, general application...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0213par0095	No, we're not objecting, sir, is that okay? We're not objecting, give me time. You can't be so strict, you can't be us, you can't be Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0215par0096	Mr. President, don't be a pest!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0212par0097	If you don't object, Mr. Slim, I will, but you object. I mean, I don't mean you, but the groups object.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0213par0098	Mr. President, may I have a word? You have no right to be so strict; neither can you be us, nor can you be Arinc.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0212par0099	No, I don't have the right to say what, dear? I'm implementing the Civil Code, I'm implementing the protocol here.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0213par0100	Give it time, we don't object.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0212par0101	Here you go, Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0213par0102	That doesn't make sense.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0216par0103	Mr. President is following a general rule!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0213par0104	I mean, you give them time when you're having an important conversation.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0217par0105	Mr. President, I know how difficult your work is, and we have to follow the rules.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0218par0106	And then each group will want the same thing for their own speech.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0217par0107	But there's nothing to be said for two minutes, so we should probably give our friends, I don't know, a minute, two minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0219par0108	No, sir, that's the amendment to the Civil Code, Minister, you're trying to cut it down; you'll appreciate...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0218par0109	Come in, Mr. Arinc, we're listening.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0217par0110	I respectfully respect my president's interest in doing his duty, but if you'll just let me finish this sentence...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0220par0111	But you did say "hasis" Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0221par0112	Can you explain the German foot?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0217par0113	Of course I'll explain. My dear friends, I've distributed these materials. I called my friend Ali Riza Gülçek, from the Alevi associations, from the mosques -- you know, in Istanbul, I don't know -- so please give me their names and I'll send them supplies. I sent them, I gave them sixty-five foundation and foundation supplies, and they're nice. These have beds, quilts, kitchen supplies. We also have a list of these.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0222par0115	You've given it to other associations.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0223par0116	You didn't give it to the Society for Support of Modern Life.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0217par0117	My dear friends, there's a public interest, and it's still active in Turkey, and it's only connected to Germany, according to the Ministry of the Interior's records -- which the Ministry of Internal Affairs says is in accordance with the law -- I believe it was 13.5 million -- that the money came from...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0224par0118	The Ministry has a report, Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0217par0119	...in Turkey's Association's account, and it's been spent from here, it's very clear, it's stable.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0225par0120	You make it sound like you gave it all to the Aleki associations.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0224par0121	What do you think of the Ministry report?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0217par0122	Mr. Attila, there's no getting rid of your obsession. I'm telling you, please, look, I know what's in Turkey. Once there was a connection to Germany, I said something again, because the defendants in Germany agreed to this case, to get out of the penalty, for one reason or another, and since that decision has been finalized, it is also alleged to be connected to Turkey, this connection must be investigated, it must go to trial...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0224par0123	But it's not being investigated, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0217par0124	...and those who are mentioned must answer in the court. I said. I'm still on the same page, expressing my opinion.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0224par0125	He's not investigating, Mr. Secretary, that's the problem.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0226par0126	You haven't even been relieved of duty, Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0217par0127	Dear friends, in other words, three people were arrested for this, and I believe they were released three months later.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0226par0128	Who was protecting him?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0217par0129	On the day they were evacuated, the original evacuation order is an exemplar for the victims in long imprisonment, I said. What more can I say, fellas?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0227par0130	There's still no precedent.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0228par0131	You know, we're waiting.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0217par0132	I said all this on my own behalf. She's alone right now.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0229par0133	What do you say to the Ministry's report, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0217par0134	...this case is under investigation. Even though the indictment hasn't been filed yet, the investigation phase indicates that jurisdiction has been used. According to Article 138 of the Constitution, it is also against the Constitution to give such a gene.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0229par0136	So congratulations, bravo!) That's your idea of justice.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0217par0137	My final statement is that our government has absolutely no relationship with this incident.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0229par0138	Of course, that's your idea of justice.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0217par0139	One last sentence: I know Bashir Atalay, from my friendship with the student at law school, that he has been chaste for 40 years, that he's been acting in a sense of responsibility.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0230par0140	Mr. President, what's this got to do with the generator?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0217par0141	...and I'm a witness that there's nothing wrong with him. [[Applause from the AK PARTY lines, noise from CHP and MHP rows]] My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0231par0145	Thank you, Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0232par0146	Is he a lawyer? Is he a lawyer?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0217par0147	I am a lawyer, I'm a lawyer.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0233par0148	Mr. President, the executive wish is not the office of office, it is the executive office; therefore, the executive office, the wish should not be deceived by wishes, the public must correct its attitude.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0234par0149	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. Now it's time for...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0235par0151	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0234par0152	On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group,
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0236par0153	If you want judgment, let's open it...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0237par0154	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0234par0155	Mr. Tan, please sit down. Here you go, Mr. Card.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0237par0157	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has made statements that would require me to take a stand under Article 69. He also used unpleasant expressions to target my person.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0234par0158	Here you go, Mr. Card, before you get a new pick-me-up.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0237par0159	Okay.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0238par0160	Five minutes to that, too.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0234par0161	Mr. Arinc took five minutes, and I'll give you five.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0237par0163	Well, all right, I'll just get my notes and come back.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0239par0164	Mr. President, you're so fair!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0240par0165	Mr. President, they called you "Hassis" and you're being teased.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0241par0166	Here you go, Mr. Card.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0242par0168	Mr. President, thank you. Of course, Mr. Arinc, the Minister is doing his usual duty again with his usual courtesy, on the one hand, on the other hand, in his approach to protecting this staff. I'd like to remind Mr. Arinc that, look, I'm talking about a 34-page report from the Agency of Associations, Mr. Secretary, of the 34-page report. Are you going to ignore this report? Are you going to say no? Despite this report, how can you call a person who has expressed these things? Well, then, you must be acting on the instinct to protect someone. That's what that means. Is there any other explanation? Was this report rebuttal? That report remains in the ministry's records. Moreover, the presence of that report is revealed, there are correspondence about it, the Minister is coming out, someone is coming out on behalf of the Minister, he's making false statements. Not only does the Minister make false statements; the Minister of Justice also gives false statements, and the Minister of Finance is making false statements. Why don't you answer them? If you really express the concept of justice, as some people do. As for the mission some of them are trying to impose upon you, then do it right, and explain it clearly. Now, I'm afraid you're not consistent at this point, and you're no longer believable, Mr. Secretary, you can't say that anymore. Look, we're talking about phone records.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0243par0173	The content?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0242par0174	I'll show you the contents. If you have the courage to listen to the content, let me read it, Mr. Secretary. Look, look...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0243par0175	You need to read it, you're the one claiming it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0242par0176	You know, we're not judges here, we're not judges here, we're here to present concrete evidence, credible evidence, hard evidence. Let the judge consider it. You can't rule here, and I can't. Here's the content. What statement? That's the testimony of the suspect I was just talking about, who needs to be protected. I'm not naming him. Why don't I give you your name? Because I'm really concerned as a citizen at the point of safety. At this point, I'd like to invite the government on another mission. You will be responsible for the possible attacks against this person, for the safety of his life. We're recording it from here. The suspect reflected in those statements and public opinion...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0244par0178	Are you going to do something? What are you going to do?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0242par0179	According to the statements of Mustafa Çelik. How can I make it more concrete than that? I'm not a judge.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0245par0180	Read the contents of the wiretaps.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0246par0181	Mr. Card, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0242par0182	Look, phone records. Let me read this, if I may, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0246par0183	No, we can't give you that much time, Mr. Card. You have a minute and a half.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0242par0184	Here, interestingly, let the public really consider this: someone is uploading a mission to Mr. Arinc. And I really want to load that mission, and I still want to keep that feeling. At that point, I'm still here to present to you that I've left some discretion. I hope you'll use that discretionary share properly and use it accordingly. Look, we know you've always vouched for your classmates, we know you vouched for the Supreme Court, we know you vouched for the State Department, but interestingly enough, when you raise your hand to the Minister...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0247par0186	And vouch for the mayor of Kayseri.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0242par0187	...you raised your hand very, very embarrassed, so you hesitated not to lift it up like this.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0248par0188	Keep reading your intentions.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0242par0189	I believe that many of my friends in the group don't raise their hands. I really trust this conscience of yours, this conscience of the group.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0249par0190	Teacher, are you a body language expert? How do you know how he raised his hand?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0248par0191	He's reading intent, intent.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0242par0192	I want to believe that the Justice and Development Party still hasn't lost that sense of conscience, that sense of responsibility.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0250par0193	You said you'd read it, you didn't. How did it happen?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0251par0194	Read the content of the listening.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0242par0195	I believe that during the process, our friends will make these evaluations, that they will listen to the voice of their conscience, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0252par0197	Thank you, Mr. Card. Mr. Ergin, Mr. Kart, the Minister of Justice is lying, the Minister of Finance is lying. Here you go. Three minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0253par0202	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. What Mr. Kart is referring to from this bench is that the ministries are appointed as co-ordinator ministers to answer questions asked by lawmakers. Many of the questions proposed by opposition parties come to our ministry to be answered through the Ministry of Justice. The information found in our ministry is collected from our own records, non-responsive ministries, and sent to the relevant MP in response. Mr. Kart is lying to the Minister of Justice. Is that what he's saying about documents based on our own records, or is he saying that information that is not in our Ministry is based on the signature of the Minister of Internal Affairs, Finance, and the signature of the Minister of Finance, based on our signature? He needs to explain this one.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0254par0205	It doesn't matter.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0253par0206	Second, the inspectors have violated the confidentiality of this investigation, Mr. Kart says. Mr. Kart, by waving the red folders in the CHP group meeting room, by reading the contents of the speech tape, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, Mr. Attila Kart, what is violating the investigation? Aren't you in violation? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In person, the case has not yet been placed, and so far the investigation is under way, and anything you say here is a violation of the secrecy of the investigation. You're in no position to know, but please don't blame anyone else for this.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0255par0209	Are you kidding me? What investigation? There's no investigation left in this country, thanks to you!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0253par0210	The second thing is, when I'm making this motion for a gene question...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0255par0211	Are you kidding me? Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0253par0212	...Mr. Bashir is with Atalalay, and the Minister of Justice is responsible for this investigation...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0255par0213	No investigation, no privacy!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0253par0214	...to prevent him from moving forward. There are accusations like that. Dear lawmakers, according to the agreement on legal aid in international criminal matters, the Ministry of Justice does not have the slightest obligation or responsibility in such cases, except to mediate the request for legal aid between the two countries' judicial authorities to be delivered to relevant authorities. The documents sent to us by Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office to send to Germany were sent to the German authorities on the same day or the next, and the answers from the German authorities were sent to Ankara Chief Prosecutor's Office on the same day or the next.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0256par0217	Where are those prosecutors?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0253par0218	If the correspondence delays, the Justice Department, even though it's none of your business...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0256par0219	Where are those prosecutors?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0253par0220	...he wrote tequila to the German authorities three times.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0257par0221	Why did you relieve them?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0253par0222	So, as always, I regret to inform you of Mr. Kart. I give my regards to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0258par0224	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0259par0225	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0258par0226	Here you go, Mr. Card.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0259par0227	Mr. Secretary has made it very clear that I have to make a statement, that I've been slandering him. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0258par0228	Here you go, Mr. Card, three minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0260par0229	Mr. President, you're creating a new protocol.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0261par0230	Mr. Secretary, does the secrecy of the investigation only occur to you at the Lighthouse, and why can't you think of it elsewhere?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0262par0231	Why did you relieve the prosecutors, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0261par0232	Why are you deputizing the prosecutors?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0262par0233	Why did you take the prosecutors? [[There is no news from CHP rows]] He doesn't know, does he?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0261par0236	You're giving everything to the press.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0262par0237	He took HSYK, didn't he?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0263par0239	Dear friends, once again I salute the General Assembly. First of all, I've expressed myself in the investigation of the Lighthouse Association, and in my speech, I'm one of the MPs who personally filed the criminal complaint with our president. So I'd like to point out that I've also been following that investigation file. In this frame...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0264par0241	Mr. Card...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0263par0242	Mr. Secretary, let me put it this way. Now, look, in that frame, the Oda TV case, the Telekom investigation, the coal corruption case... the case of yesterday's Istanbul MP Aykut Erdoğdu... the case of the $1 billion worth of coal that our friend was talking about has been missing from the Ankara Public Prosecutor's office for two years. We're tracking these files, we're tracking them. We've been tracking the Army Aybast file, the bribes with the camera, explain these, Mr. Arinc. To your conscience, why have you been still on duty for a year?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0265par0244	What conscience?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0263par0245	Bribery, camera, red-handed, he's still on duty. What are we following? We follow the Kaisers, we follow the Lighthouses. Of course we go there once a week, every ten days, every 15 days, we follow the prosecutors at the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, we say, "Do your duty." We say, "Remember that you are the prosecutor of the Republic and the Republic." We're doing what they're supposed to do. This is what Turkey has become. Why don't you explain yourself? Why has the coal-aid corruption case been under the table for two years, and why isn't there a lawsuit? Explain that, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0266par0246	Why are the Lighthouse prosecutors being deposed?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0263par0247	If there's information about the Lighthouse, if there's a breach of the secrecy of the investigation, you're the government, so go ahead, do what you need to do, do what you need to do as a state. But that's not what you do here. Look, I didn't do anything to you here for the Department of Justice. I'm calling it a motion, I'm giving it a date. You answer in your own name, and you also write, referring to the Ministry of Finance's 29/12/2009 article, where you write, where you write, where you take responsibility, where there is no information, no documents, and no reports. When do you say that? You say that in June 2010. In March 2009, however, there are 34 pages of reports. What is this, dear friends, not a false statement? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Arinc, what is this, not a false statement?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0267par0252	It's not a lie, maybe it's a joke!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0268par0253	It's the only way to be honest with the truth.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0269par0254	Mr. Card, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0270par0255	Mr. Arinc, what about the pet bottled assassination? Our hearts were in our throats, and we're curious about that.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0269par0259	On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Altan Tan, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0271par0262	Mr. President, Congressman, I'd like to start by telling you a story. It's a famous story, a story you all know, but it's come down to -- again, ahsen velev kane one hundred and eighty -- to tell you one more time: one of the people in the country is an agha who doesn't like to deal with too much of this kind of work with too much power. Most of the Aghas don't work much with power anyway. He gave 100 sheep, goats, to a shepherd who called. But the shepherd is one of the oldest in the country, the most alert -- and I don't want to describe it too much -- perhaps you'll be offended. It's been a year, two years, no news. Agha said, "Hele, call this shepherd, see what happened, what was done, what did he do?" How much oil, how much stuff, how much wool, how much yogurt, how much cheese has been bought, and the lamb has had a baby? Anyway, they've found it, they've brought it together. Of course, in the meantime, there's a lot of bad smell in your ear. They say, "This is not what you know. "He comes to the net, and he lies at the bottom of a tree in such a shade, and he looks from afar, and he looks at the shepherd, and he comes closer, and he looks at him with a lame goat, and a bowl in his hand. Of course, he can't see what's in the bowl, but it turns out it's a bowl of yogurt. He's starting to get angry, it's an anomaly. He asks: What has happened, what have you done, what have you done? And it came to pass, when thou gavest me twenty of the hundred sheep, and of the goats, that the wolf took twenty of them, and seven of them went up against one another, and twelve of them went off; and 60 of them threw themselves off a hill, and fell off a cliff; and this was the lame goat that thou sawest. And in the morning I milked it, and I made a bowl of yogurt, that it might not be lost, and I brought you this yogurt. He goes crazy, he grabs the yogurt and hits the shepherd in the face. And the shepherd cleans his face, and he says, "Thank God, I came out of this account clean as a whistle.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0272par0264	That's right!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0271par0265	Now, my dear friends, I'm not going to tell you the long and long thing, what happened here at the lighthouse, what happened here, what happened in the file, what the court said, who took the judges, how they went, how they went, where they all went. There's no use talking about these things if they don't cause a crisis of conscience, if they don't produce an accounting. Now, here we are, in half an hour, in an hour, and again, those who don't accept... are not accepted. I'm not getting into any of that stuff, so I'm not mad at the part of the forensics that I call the detail. Let me tell you another story. I'm sorry about one thing, and if it was just regular corruption, I wouldn't take it because it's not new in this country, so it's been around since this country existed.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0273par0268	In prison for ten years, playing baklava in Antwerp...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0271par0269	Sir, there's a BFF, there's other times, so we're used to it now. You know what he's saying? The window's black, mine's black. That's what he's saying. But...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0274par0270	What happened?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0275par0271	THE BIRD is accounted for, and given.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0271par0272	Friends, to your consciences, I repeat, if it were a common corruption, if it were a common fraud, I would not take the word, because I repeat, this country has seen many cases like this. Ziya Pasha wrote a hundred and thirty years ago, saying that the manned-in-a-million is a ser-efraz/a few cents of the murky. The great corrupters in this country are always respected, so it's not a new event, it's been like this since the days of the Padishah. Well, I'll tell you why I'm so upset. Let me tell you another story about that. One of the most famous Arab tribal leaders in the Arabian desert, on the greatest horse in the region, alone in the desert, went on a lion hunt, and here is one of the ancient heroes, one of his greatest virtues. It turns out that somewhere in the middle of the desert, someone is dying; they're coming down, there's no drop of water. He pulls out his canteen, drips a few drops of water into his mouth, and tries to bring it back to himself, and then he comes alive, and he stands up, and he rides on this great tribal chief's most famous horse, and he gallops away. She cries, she cries, she cries, she cries, she cries, she sits, she cries, she cries, she cries, she cries, she cries, she cries, she cries, she cries, she cries, she cries, she cries. The rest of the tribe comes from behind, and they say, "Why are you crying so much, so you're a famous man. A horse is gone, so what about a horse? So no matter how famous he is, you have a horse, you have dozens of them. He says, "If this fraud finds out, if it spreads, I swear to God, no one will give a drop of water in the desert if people die of thirst until the end of time." Dear friends, Lighthouse is such a case. This nation, as sincere as it can be in its heart, as well as it can be in its best interest. Here, Mr. Arinc has just said: "My wife has planted the fabrics and distributed them with her friends." This is the expression of a commitment, even symbolically, and millions of dollars, millions of marks, millions of euros, euros have been collected. Now, if there's a smell in here, I didn't say it, he didn't say it, he didn't have it, the paper was fake, it's bad news. If there's nothing, if you're so sure of cleaning it up, then please, let this House set up a commission, let it do a search, let the decent people and the community rest in peace. If these people aren't really to blame, then they should be, too. But after that, dear friends, look, notice that the charity rate of these charities has dropped almost five times, six times as much, so people have been shaken up like the Arab tribal chief in the desert. You can't fix this, so that's the biggest sin. Otherwise, I don't know how many, what, I don't know all the files right now -- a lot of numbers, a lot of documents, a lot of arguments, a lot of documents -- but there are a few things I know, and I want to tell you about them now. For forty-one years, I have been in all Islamic groups and congregations in Turkey, including now. Dear friends, Mr. Erbakan, who has never traded a cent in his life, when we opened our mouths about his wealth -- most of the friends here have been policyd together for years -- the apocalypse breaks, you make mischief, you divide the community. Look what happened -- what happened -- what happened today in the newspapers -- what became of the community. We went through the break-in finance thing, we went through the OPJ thing. So from the time of the motherland, in the time of prosperity, dozens of them, including friends who are now in the House, including some of the ministers, attended the openings of these companies, supported publicly, stood by them. Those guys were doing it wrong that day, too. I, personally, have written about the wealth and behavior of all these people I count, all at that time, when they were the strongest. But after he fell, they said, "Pray to your brother, who I will not give his name to." I don't know which artist, I don't want to name them, and I don't want to mention them on the record, I don't mind the council." So he took him by helicopter and took the jeep to the other one. What happened to these religious, sincere, pure ideas and feelings of money? What has happened to the companies that were involved in the matter again in Iconium? Now, where do I go from here: the heir to the Alexander Pasha cult, he built all the property on his son, he passed away, and he goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Now, the Holy Prophet has a famous scene: I will do the right thing even to my daughter Fatima, who is a thief. In the mosques, we told them for years: "Here, he said to Hazreti Omare: Where did you get a shirt on him? I don't know how many times I've heard it from my brothers in my own life, 50 times, a hundred times, and I don't know how many times I've heard it in mosques. Well, don't we have a right to ask you something today? So leave the law, leave the papers, whatever, and I'm saying it all for the people who believe, so don't we have the right to ask, or do we have the right to investigate, is this a trial, is this an evil thing? So the people who came from a faith asking for Caliph's shirt today were afraid to pass ahead of the Sultanahmet Meatballer in Istanbul when we were students with you. We were drinking tripe together at the tripe shop in Kasympaşa, in case we couldn't afford it. Is it a sin to ask where this wealth, this property, came from today? Dear friends, perhaps we can all be exonerated here, and perhaps none of us are purely milked, including me; we may have our faults, flaws, bansies, but we have to have a little conscience in the face of events that bind, bind and enjoin, inform our friends. The history of Islam is filled with examples. You all know the reason for Jesus'arrival: to correct the Jewish law. And they worked with the rabbi in the synagogues, and in the synagogues, and worked as bankers: and they did to the poor, and to the poor, and to the law, and to the rich, and to the rich. Now, that's the way law breaks down, that's the way religion breaks down, that's the way society breaks down. Especially if faith is broken in society, as I said at the beginning of my speech, if that sense of trust is damaged, then no one in that society can give or give anyone a glass of water or give anyone a glass of water, not trust them; everyone is treated like a crook, so when someone wants to do something with sincere intent and self-inflicted intent, people condemn him in the first place. It's possible to replicate these examples, and it's possible to increase these intentions in the Islamic community, in other parts of society. And I don't intend to give you a lot of trouble. If I can only address a few words of emotion, that's good enough for me. I don't want to do a polemic. So your thief's bad, my thief's good; your con man, sir's bad, my con man's good.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0276par0283	They're all bad, all of them.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0271par0284	Dear friends, I've said it again from this stand. Thirty-two years ago, my father bought the land in Çamlıca, and he looked at the city, and he looked at the top of the pinelica, and they said, "There is no oil." He gave it back to his master. Today, the whole of Istanbul is in a zoning gallery. Sir, was it necessary or unnecessary, that's another matter. I'm asking you something else: who owns this property before it's built, how much it's bought, who owns it after it's built? I've been a civil engineer for 31 years. Rant, money, TKS, KAKS, I know the precedent by heart. When you have covered them up, if your conscience is at rest, then if no one has power over them, the Lord of the Worlds will call them to account. There's billions of dollars going around. Here, a friend of ours just mentioned a $1 trillion runt with new regulations, maybe less. I mean, maybe he told me less about the book. I want to end this right here. You know, there's a very famous saying, it says, "You know, a mosquito sedge, and you're short on drums if you don't understand." I'm going to say a few more words about another matter, and before we get there, the privilege that the Council of Ministers has granted this Lighthouse remains, but the Ivy League's assistance in the Van earthquake is being blocked. So these are the details, or according to some, I draw your attention to them, and then I'd like to show you an article of the Diyarbakır Governor's office, dated March 26, 2012. The Diyarbakır Peace and Democracy Party's State Department has opened up signature booths called "I want them" by enameling its request on 4 issues in the new constitution. Look, if there's any other activity -- again, the ministers are here -- the governor of Diyarbakir will find out about it, and he'll answer, and he'll write it himself. These signature booths, their bankers, all of their places have been sealed by the governor's order. You know why he hung up? Look, I'm reading -- not all of it, but very little -- these three-four articles are: Kurdish basic language education, Kurdish public use, regional governance demand, citizenship definition, etc.; these four articles are summarized, four articles, those articles are counted. It says: "You will start the petition to collect signatures in the new constitution by forming stand and mobile teams. I have not read it. It continues: the new constitutional process offers a historic opportunity to resolve the Kurdish problem. We, as Kurds, demand that the following articles be included in the new constitution for an equal, free, fair, and honorable life. There is also a written text in this signing paper. So what? He is now responding that four articles mentioned in the signing campaign for drafting the new constitution are contrary to the relevant provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey and the Law of Political Parties, which are being prohibited from laying down the foundations of a unitary state structure, he says. Look, dear friends, if you remember, last month in Turkey, there was an apocalypse in the press. It has been said that the Constitutional Compromise Commission does not publish the opinions of institutions and organisations who come to the Constitutional Compromise Commission and express their opinion. How will they publish it? Now, one of them came and said, "I don't want the Constitution to be unchangeable." That's his view. Another came, and said: "I want the temples to be opened. The reason why a party was shut down according to the current Constitutional Constitution to offer the removal of the President of Religious Affairs is that it should be autonomous. Let the religion be autonomous." They said all of this in our Commission. Hundreds of institutions, organizations, parties, associations, foundation, baro came, coming, coming, Monday, there's another one. Our governor says: "You can't say these things. How can I make a constitution if I can't say them?" We explained it to Mr. Cemil Cicek over and over in the Commission, and we said, "Look, if people can't come and express themselves, if they're tried through the door for something that comes out of their mouths, after they leave the Commission, there's no democracy, there's no new constitution. Let's first declare how to talk about it, how to talk about it, how to make all kinds of views available, how to explain it, law, regulations, whatever it takes to get it out. They said there's no need. Dear friends, even though we've told you so many times, this is the case. In this case, what could be more innocent if a citizen in Diyarbakır wants to sign his opinions under a white paper? After that, when the citizen demonstrates his reaction, the slightest reaction is called a terrorist act. I am calling here, to the Governor of Diyarbakır and to the Minister of Interior, who is in charge of Diyarbakır Governor, and to the Prime Minister: This is not the way to go, so if you're going to stop a citizen from expressing himself and a signing campaign, then who are you going to do it with? So, we're going to Burma this evening, and tomorrow we have the Constitutional District meeting in Bursa. We're asking people 52-53 questions, so they're asking all of these questions that the Union of Rooms and Stock Exchanges in Turkey and the larger union and the corporation have done together, all of them. So far, we've had two meetings in Ankara. We had meetings in Edirne, Izmir, Antalya, Konya, Diyarbakır, and asked the citizens all about them, friends. It's all been reported as statistics, it's come our way. My dear friends, if this climate continues, especially in this -- I'm telling you in the region -- if state terrorism continues, if all the ways of the citizen's expressing himself are blocked, every step of the way is banned, there's nothing better than that. Look, I used the most obvious word, so it's no good. Because if you use a second word, it says: "Are you threatening us? You are threatening the citizen. Governor, snap out of it! Look, a week ago, all hell broke loose. Hundreds of thousands of Diyarbakırns didn't listen to you, went out on the street, even though you put a panzer on every street. I don't know how you're gonna run it if you're gonna stop him from signing a white paper right now. I have expressed to you my feeling in the first part of my speech and my views on it as calmly as possible. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0277par0298	Thank you. Mr. Altan, I can extend three minutes if you want, just like I did with the other speakers.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0271par0300	Thank you, sir, I've expressed myself.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0277par0301	Okay, thank you. It's Sadir Durmaz, Yozgat MP who wants to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0278par0305	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group regarding the geneor issued against Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay on the charge that he has misused his position as part of the investigation process involving the Lighthouse Association. I hereby salute the grand jury. Mr. President, it's clear that you have to take a break from Mr. Minister's absence at the beginning of the meeting of his client, which makes sense that the Minister should also show the importance of the matter. I resent your attitude. Before I begin my speech, I'd like to make a brief assessment of Mr. Arinc's bail. Mr. Arinc, I appreciate your bail, a long-standing friendship, which, of course, you can bail your friend out, but I'm sure if you had expressed why you wanted to remove Mr. Zahid Akman, why you couldn't, and who was protecting him, it would have been much more meaningful to have an opinion. Dear lawmakers, the Lighthouse case is not just a theft by a couple of robbers coming together. Given the fact that the money earned by corruption was spent through different people and different relationships, the claim that this was the fraud case of the century should be considered a valid and valid claim in the event of the Lighthouse. In the case of the Lighthouse Association, which has used the cooperation and solidarity of our relatives in Germany, the German court has ruled and condemned the defendants. In the case process in Germany, there have been serious allegations and accusations that led to Prime Minister Erdogan's trial and to the extent of this organised fraud and the exploitation of mercy. This exemplary corruption has very important social, human, moral, legal and political dimensions. In contrast to their promises, the AKP has become the focus of corruption today. The developments reveal all the dimensions of moral corruption, which have been seen as a patronage of many years of man-to-man favor, Rant-making, chasing after state-to-state resources. The legal certification of the theft of zakat and alms by the German courts by exploiting the clean consciences of our relatives in Germany has revealed the existence of individuals and gangs who have never been ashamed to take advantage of their beliefs by deceiving them with promises, by stepping up steps. Some of the people involved in the case seem to be fighting together for an ideologically common political purpose, some of whom have found positions in public institutions with the support of the ruling party, and some of whom have even established commercial partnerships. It is remarkable that Prime Minister Erdogan has struggled to protect the former RTÜK president, whom he vouched for, saying he was a clean friend, in response to the Turkish nation's tradition of co-operation and the theft of the Lighthouse, which has made clean religious feelings an instrument of theft.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0279par0310	Roadmates, road.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0278par0311	In this process, the fact that the false light bulb of the AKP (AKP) and the yellow light of the Lighthouse shine light on the same dirty road. Dear lawmakers, yesterday's victims have become today's wealthy by using the resources of the state, adding wealth to their wealth in relationships that only result from being close and supportive. It is understood that the AKP has claimed responsibility for protecting the rights of unfinished orphans. This is what happens to those who have made a flag of justice, justice, and lawful gain, and have ruled our nation for ten years. Dear lawmakers are known by all public opinion that the AKP is trying to cover up this corruption in particular. Now, everyone knows that many people who have been tried and named in the indictment are close to the Prime Minister and AKP chiefs. Mr. Beşir Atalay is a very strong claim that he used his position as deputy Minister of Interior and Deputy Prime Minister in the Lighthouse case. The relationship between Zahid Akman, Zechariah Karaman and Veli Korkmaz, and Mr. Bashir Atalay, mentioned in the case, is an absolute necessity. The protection of Mr. Beşir Atalay is also understood by Mr. Atalay's speech, which was first denied by Mayor Kırkkale Veli Korkmaz, and was made up by phone records, as well as by making excuses, as by Mr. Atalay's concern with those mentioned in the case. I won't bother you with the names of those mentioned in the case, but for the record, I'd like to move a sentence from the indictment of the case in Germany, and I'd like to point out: is there a number of political implications to the investigations, especially by the Turkish government, to the ongoing detention? In another part of the indictment, the unexplained amount difference between official and informal records is 11 million 737, 994 euros; 60 per cent of the collection was handed over by some individuals to Turkey, including Zechariah Karaman, where millions of euros were relocated to companies established in Germany, and the names of those companies were named Atlas Media, Euro 7, New Dawn and European. It is a historical offence for the government to clarify the situation of its members or relatives associated with these companies. The conscience of anyone who reads the indictment will not tolerate the situation of the Lighthouse case in Turkey. Zechariah Karaman and Zahid Akman, who worked together in the New World Communications Corporation, were also members of the board of directors at the River Media Publishing Corporation, according to the Chamber of Commerce records. Another name, along with Karaman and Akman, is Minister Bashir Atalalay. Zahid Akman, one of the most important names in the case, is the head of RTÜK during the AKP period. This name has been under the government's protection and protection during this period of power. Dear lawmakers have filed a criminal complaint to the HSYK to make it look like the sword of Demokles. In other cases, the HSYK, who didn't take the defendants' reasonable complaints seriously, has immediately launched an investigation into prosecutors, taking into account this complaint and investigating the prosecutors, while the investigation has been launched into Ankara Chief Prosecutor's Office before the investigation has been launched. Dear lawmakers have been fortunate to go all the way to Germany to meet with the authorities and not have anything else happen to prosecutors who have reached the heart of the situation. The elected MPs are held in prison for evidence blackouts and escape, while some of those mentioned in the biggest robbery of the century, the Lighthouse corruption, are only detained three years later and released after a few months in prison. Prosecutors are being suspended, sued for misconduct. Now, do you think there's any evidence left? True justice has been replaced by the compassionate justice of the AKP's mind. Turkey now has a distinction in the form of the AKP and others. The judicial order is in a position that protects, protects, and clears the way for the AKP in every sense. Wherever this file is launched, it will come and touch it like a boomerang. The Lighthouse was illuminated in all aspects of Germany, while Turkey was blackened by the deliberate intervention of the AKP. Dear lawmakers, in this chapter of my speech, I would like to talk about the destruction project of Mr. Beşir Atalay, which I've just tried to explain in this part of the family photo by Mr. Beşir. And again, I've won the Bureau, which is in the Minister's family photo, and it turns out that when we consider the presence of the Undersecretary of MIT and some ministry officials, which he praised, Mr. Atalay had taken on a special mission in these matters. Today in Turkey, Mr. Atalay is one of the key actors in a troubled and quarrelling political corruption partnership with our national values, the principles of the republic's establishment and the foundations of the state. With the help of AKP governments, unfortunately, there is a major campaign of destruction and destruction aimed at the basic values and institutions of the Republic of Turkey. The AKP is trying to weaken its national consciousness by discussing the national identity of the Turkish nation, encouraging separatist traitors who aim to launch a process of separatism and division based on ethnic differences in Turkey. Dear MPs, as the National Movement Party, we see that all of the worrying developments we've heard about for nationality, identity, national entity and brotherhood and shared with the public are, unfortunately, slowly, on the way to happening. The destruction process, which the AKP has called the road map, which Mr. Atalay was a road sergeant, began with applause at the Habur Border Gate. At this beginning, the AKP and PKK co-operation, the Prime Minister and Imralı solidarity all came to light. As the prime minister's special representative in Oslo, the Deputy Prime Minister of the time, used the title of leadership for the terrorist chief Imralı murderer, to illustrate the extent of this solidarity. In the face of these events, there is nothing left to hide and hide. It's obvious, and it's in front of our nation. The AKP has succeeded in doing what PKK has failed to do for years and has shed tears after terrorists, while on the other hand has hurt, deeply injured, and bled public conscience. We have full faith that the Turkish nation will not fall into the trap set by the AKP (AKP) and PKK (PKK) and will never break its unity and unity. Dear lawmakers, the liquidation of the national state and unitary structure, the identification of our nation, the creation of artificial minorities, and the process leading to the destruction of a thousand-year-old brotherhood, along with the dangers at the beka level. Turkey faces the most serious security threats in its recent history in the face of widespread acts of terrorism, aminating separatism and climbing ethnic provocations. The destruction project, called by the government, has provided the PKK terrorist organization with grounds and opportunities beyond their wildest dreams. Not only did the government's Undersecretaries of Justice and Internal Affairs go to the terrorists' feet, but they took the Republican prosecutors, the police chiefs, and set up the tents as a monument of shame to our political history. Departure dynamite has taken action in the company of terrorist organisations, sharing roles and responsibilities as part of the AKP, PKK, and the PKK. The failure to end years of separatist terrorism with ineffective measures, the direct declaration of ethnic discrimination by the government, raises confidence and despair in society that terrorism cannot be ended. The government's presence, especially for people entering from the Habur Border Gate, has allowed our nation to see the truth better. The chief architect of the demolition project, Mr. Bashir Atalay, has deeply hurt our nation's national and religious feelings with his role in the Lighthouse corruption. I would like to point out that Mr. Atalay and his accomplices will, sooner or later, answer for this destruction project and for the embezzlement of faith, and the account will be in the real Turkish courts of justice, not in the tent courts established by Mr. Atalay. [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, in recent years, justice has been our most important value, unfortunately, which has been emptied by the AKP's hand, abused, and caused a large percentage of society to worry. The most important thing that sustains the nations is a strong sense of justice. Losing people's faith in justice is an invitation to persecution. The nations cannot be destroyed by economic woes, but it is never possible to maintain a system of injustice and persecution. By creating public opinion with extreme examples of the past, we will establish the rule of law, not the law of the seniors. The most concrete example of the AKP (AKP) who made up his own judgment is the Lighthouse case. Other than Habur, in Silivri, in the Lighthouse, in the MIT case, in your own municipalities, other law practices in opposition municipalities have completely destroyed the trust of law. A long time ago, it was used to express injustices in the judiciary to establish a lawyer's right to protect and protect your fellow believers, to keep an attorney in the form of AKP. The honorable MPs, Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay, will go down in history with only two actions carried out during the Interior Ministry: The first is the BOP policy opening project; the other is the Lighthouse case. He also owes his political position today to his efforts in both matters. No one can say that Mr. Atalay did any other work at the Ministry of Interior, doing any serious service. While Mr. Atalay is in the position to fight separatism and corruption, I can't refer to a minister on this bench, but he's created a public opinion that I can call the opposite of these two words. It would be much better for them to open a gene question about themselves and even, if possible, to leave politics at this stage, to fight terrorism, to be united and united, and to have a national moral and universal truth. Mr. Atalay will also reduce his sin and remorse, if he is not responsible for at least public and money-related affairs. Honourable MPs, in verse 135 of the Lord's House of Nisa, O ye who believe! Be maintainers of justice, bearing witness for the sake of God, even though it may be against yourselves, your parents, and your kinsmen. Taking into account this divine warning, I would like each of you to weigh the Lighthouse case on your conscience scale, and I would like you to raise your fingers to be read as lessons by the Quran the other day, and I would like you to raise them with respect to those who oppose this clear judgment of the Qur'an.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0280par0335	Mr. Durmaz, if you'd like, I can extend your time.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0278par0336	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0280par0337	Thank you. The AK PARTY Group has been asked to speak for Zeyid Aslan, the Tokat MP.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0340	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge to express our thoughts and opinions on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the geneor given by a group of Republican People's Party MPs about Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay. I hereby salute the High Council. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear MPs, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not only a parliament that performs legislatures, but also an audit between the duties of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Each member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey gives a verbal question motion, submits a written question motion, gives a research motion, even grants a geneor motion, and performs an audit in parliament. The gene is one of the most serious of the control mechanisms, one of the control mechanisms that needs to be handled with precision at the most. For this reason, the contents of the genome must be in accordance with the Constitution, it must be in the ministry, and it must also be supported with evidence that will not leave a shred of doubt in anyone's head. At this point, when we look at the motion for the geneorization that we're meeting here today, we see that the motion for this gene is clearly incompatible with the third joke of Article 138 of the Constitution. In fact, Mr. Speaker, the Constitution shouldn't have sent this gene that clearly contradicts 138. It may have jumped. Also, when we look at the contents of the gene, we see that there is some information about a secret investigation going on in the context of the gene, but there's something we can't really see here that we can't see, because we're not as sharp-eyed as they are in the file. We don't know anything about this undercover investigation, we don't know what the statements there are, who said what or didn't say in the investigation, we don't know anything about it, we don't know anything about it. So I don't want to talk about some sort of defense in the context of this case. Surely Mr. Secretary will answer what is expressed about him here, but I would like to say this.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0282par0347	So you're saying this government has no information? Are you telling the truth? Do you believe that? Shame, shame!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0348	I just want to say this. When we looked at the gene, he called him, he called him from there, he talked to him for so long, he talked to him for so many seconds, 15 years ago, they were somewhere, at some point, one small shareholder.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0282par0349	The government doesn't have these? The Minister doesn't know about this?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0283par0350	Mr. Tallback, please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0351	I mean, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're,
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0284par0352	That's how you keep people inside.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0353	We're trying to make a connection that we don't even know what people see in those phone calls, so we connect with them, and we turn it into a gene.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0285par0354	You tell me, what did they talk about?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0355	Now, if we waste the geneorization mechanism so cheaply, believe me, we'll be ruining the House's reputation.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0286par0356	Have you already left dignity in the House?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0357	In particular -- I've been in this Parliament for ten years -- I've seen clearly and clearly that the Republican People's Party has brought a gene into parliament in less than two months, and in every genome, it has not been able to prove the contents of that gene. This reminds me of a story in our elementary school that tells me how bad lies are. You know, we all know that in elementary school we'd be told a story about a liar shepherd to tell a lie that was bad. Especially the story of the lying shepherd who calls out to the villagers every time a wolf attacks his pack, but when a wolf attacks him in the third place, he can't make people believe the villagers. So you've cheapened this geneorization mechanism so low that if the Republican People's Party ever brought in a geneor that actually exists, you won't be able to convince the nation or this National Assembly. So, at this point, when we're preparing the gene, I think it should be prepared more seriously when we're making a gene motion here. And once again, when you look at the content of this gene, as I've just said, 15 years ago, sir, with Zatla, who is now Mayor of Czezkale, with the Chairman of the Board of Directors of YIMPAŞ, there are some individuals named in the Lighthouse case, who have a name, or whatever, in a place called media publishing. It's been 15 years. Mr. Secretary signed him over in 2000, which is where he left off. Then, as he walked through this investigation during the Ministry, sir, his bodyguard called the mayor of Kırıkkale, who soon called a man he had partnered with in the River Media, so the Minister was here to spy on him, leak information. You know what this looks like? There's a duck story. The man says it's raining. His friend says: "You call me a duck." I didn't call you a duck. When it rains, the water piles up, there's a lake, the ducks swim in that lake, so you called me a duck.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0287par0360	Drop the duck and give me a reasonable answer.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0361	So the contents of this genome are designed with duck mentality. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) At this point, I'd like to say that the genes should be prepared more seriously. The contents of this genome are mentioned in the Lighthouse. There was a trial in Germany, and the German courts finally made a decision, and Turkey had an extension of it, so Turkey must be investigated. He's already investigating, so the authorities in charge are conducting their investigations. In the end, if the judicial authorities find a criminal element at this point, they'll do what they have to do. No one has to worry about that.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0288par0363	It's all being done, it's all being dismissed by prosecutors!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0364	Sir, there were serious findings in the investigation, but the prosecutors were immediately replaced. Judgement is being directed. For God's sake, don't do it, for God's sake.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0289par0365	Why are you suspending prosecutors?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0366	There's a question of justice in this country if the prosecutors and judges in which people hand over justice to themselves get the right to falsify files.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0289par0367	You fool yourselves...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0368	If the relevant institutions allow or do not intervene -- like HSYK -- the real problem is to look for the real problem there. So if we're looking for an understanding, we're wrong: in Turkey, one period, with militant democracy, with militant justice, if you're looking for militant judges, prosecutors who approve every petition you make as a notar approval, unfortunately, there's no chance of finding it at this time. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, I'm not going to talk about the Lighthouse, I'm sure, as the defendant in this case, right now, the people who are being investigated as suspects, in the relevant authorities, in the prosecution, in the court -- if the case is filed -- will make the necessary arguments on this matter. I just know that, as our Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc put it, I know that for more than a decade now, in every corner of Turkey, this movement of goodness has been filled and clothed by this poor, strange guru.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0290par0371	Bravo.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0373	That's what I see and know. I'm sure and I believe that the prayers of these strange gurus over a million will be enough to defend them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] But I also want to make a point here: Mr. Kilicdaroglu, you know, last year, he went to Somalia, where he faced the most hunger and drought of the century. In fact, he went to Kenya because of Somalia, which sometimes happens, or it's a mistake. Somalia, Kenya...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0291par0376	Yeah, don't be silly! Camp is on the Kenyan border, and you know it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0377	That's what I'm going to say, Mr. Muharrem.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0291par0378	The camp was there, on the Kenyan border, and you know it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0379	Kenya went to Camp Dadap, where the Somalis stayed, on the border with Somalia. He also gave help to the people there by his own hand, and I would really like to say that, as a member of parliament, as a citizen of Turkey, I am very happy. But Mr. Kilicdaroglu, who had the eye to see the documents and information in the files conducted by a secret investigation, did he see the lighthouse logos on the entrance while he was traveling around Camp Dadap? (AK PARTY) Did he visit the Lighthouse Hospital, where he provided health care to those people who were condemned to hunger and drought?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0292par0380	No government? What's a fraternity doing with the government? Why is the association doing what the government is supposed to do? You sentenced the government to a fraternity.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0381	Or was Mr. Kilicdaroglu able to shake the hand of this act of kindness by wearing the Lighthouse's T-shirt and by reaching out his warm hand to the people there? I wish that when he got there, he could visit that hospital without missing it, he could shake hands with the Lighthouse logos, and yes, the people of my nation, the NGOs, came here, the greatest hunger and poverty of the century.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0293par0384	They're stealing, but they're doing business. They're stealing, but they're doing business, logic is that logic!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0385	Now, dear friends, it's not really the purpose of the gene's or the gene's or the gene's motions that we've just taken, or the gene's proposals that have come to parliament from time to time, that the concerned ministers who have been given the gene are actually doing or doing something against the law, so they don't have to answer to the gene. What we're trying to do here is try to constantly remember corruption within the same frame as the AK PARTY, which has traveled a distance in the Turkish political movement with honesty, hard work, credibility. When we were in power, this mentality tried to read the AK PARTY's intentions, did the reading of intentions, but did not yield. Then, in the second term, in 2007, this nation brought the AK PARTY back to power alone, this time trying to read lips, and in the end, it did not come to fruition.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0294par0386	Come to the next question, the next question!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0387	Now he's changed tactics. We tried to read intent, we didn't get results; we tried to read lips, we didn't get results, so let's do something to draw the integrity of the AK PARTY, which is the greatest charisma in the nation...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0295par0388	Get out of here!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0389	What should we do? Let us cloud the nation's minds in the image that they are constantly corrupting.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0296par0390	I mean, it's like people don't know.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0297par0391	Make an exception law for each tender, and then...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0392	Dear friends, don't waste your time, don't waste your breath, the AK PARTY has come out of the heart of this nation...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0298par0393	Where did you come from?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0394	...AK PARTY The ones who were pushed aside in this country, the oppressed in this country, in this country...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0298par0395	Where did the opposition come from?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0396	...the age of oblivion has emerged as the true power of the living, so the AK PARTY has emerged as the true power of this nation itself. What's in this society, what's in this nation, is in the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0298par0397	Ask Obama, Obama!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0398	If you're trying to commemorate the EC PARTY with corruption, it's the nation you're trying to claim. Please, when we say something at this point, let's place the evidence. There's money somewhere, there's definitely corruption; there's service being produced somewhere; there's definitely corruption here. In your own inner world, when you look in the mirror, please don't think about what you think about the AK PARTI.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0299par0400	Yes, you do!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0300par0401	Explain to the public the source of your wealth.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0402	So, for God's sake, if there's a corrupt government, how were these roads made, how were these dams built, how were these airports built, how were these schools built, how were these hospitals built? If there is corruption by the government in this country, how has the national income of this country tripled in ten years?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0301par0404	Out in one night, in one night!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0302par0405	Can you tell me what I owe you?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0281par0406	If there's corruption in this country and this government, how did the $23.5 billion IMF debt go down to 1.5 billion?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0303par0407	Yeah, that's a lie you're lying to me!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0304par0408	You changed the rules, we got rich overnight!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0305par0409	Can you tell me what you owe me, Mr. Aslan?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0306par0410	Tell me about the debt, the debt.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0307par0411	Dear friends, anyone who equates corruption with the AK PARTY will continue to be slapped by the nation in ten years. I want to underline that in particular. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We've put our foundation on the people in this country, taken the people into our center. We are the ones who serve the people who are the best. We have embraced their understanding. For him, there are no ideological concerns at the heart of our policy, our policy is based on the basis of service. (AC PARTY) Because we know that by the prayer of every servant we bring, we will appear before God tomorrow.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0308par0414	Whose, which lawmakers, the tender corruption files in the House?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0309par0415	Mr. Tanal, please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0308par0416	Which MP has the Akbil files?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0310par0417	I won't talk to you, so I'm deaf to everything you say today, I don't hear you, I won't hear you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, now, I need to examine the CHP, which has submitted the motion for this geneorization, for the first time in eight months, I've had the opportunity to take this stand. Every day, and every day, I hear from this stand that people over there are insulted by their spiritual character.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0311par0420	A hell of a lot!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0310par0421	Let alone this, the moral character of 21 million people represented by them is being insulted, and the Prime Minister of this country is being insulted.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0312par0422	That's out of the question.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0310par0423	I've never asked the president of a political party...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0313par0424	You're insulting the history of this country!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0310par0425	I've never seen sentences that simply insult and blaspheme the prime minister of a country on this stage until this period.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0314par0426	What have you done to Ataturk, and to the Inön?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0310par0427	But at this time, the Republican People's Party has established a policy style... which is that there was hope of power as they went to the June 12th elections, that he had changed, that he had been in front of the nation, and he was waiting for power, but those people they didn't know condemned the CHP, which had been condemned to impotence for 60 years. Of course, that was disappointing. We don't come to the assembly, we don't swear.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0315par0428	Mind your own business, your own business.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0316par0429	And you, tell me about the money from the lighthouse, the money. Tell me about the money, the money. Stop with the story and tell me about the money.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0317par0430	Why don't you tell me about the Lighthouse?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0318par0431	That day we realized that the Republican People's Party came to the House not to work, but to not to run the House. But of course, we, who have taken authority from 21 million people, are obliged to run this House to fulfill the responsibility our nation has given us...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0319par0432	People didn't authorize you to participate in the tenders.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0318par0433	And together, together and together, we'll make it work. Now, CHP is used to this: during that single party, he is used to the understanding and the mentality that they digested people with oppression and persecution and made them do what they want.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0320par0435	Are you still there?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0318par0436	He still thinks there's a people who will take it for granted in the face of oppression and persecution. No, people have changed. Now, there's a nation that believes in themselves, trusts in themselves, and knows its power; now there's a new Turkey. (EC PARTY Applause) So that CHP was no longer walking on crutches like a militant trial when it tried to stand on bayonets for years, trying to walk on postals, for years after years when it fell on its feet. So I say to you, please understand the people, embrace the people; now, the power is only in the nation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Three minutes...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0321par0439	Mr. Lion, time's up. I've offered the other groups three minutes, if you want it, I'll give you time. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0322par0442	If you stand up to the nation, open your arms to the people, I hope you get rid of this impotence disease. There were stories and jokes told here today, and I'll tell one, and I'll finish my words like this: a citizen in America, a man walking down the street, and suddenly a dog comes out and attacks a little girl. The man intervenes immediately, after a brutal struggle with the dog, kills the dog in blood and saves the child. Citizens are running, the cops are coming, everyone's congratulating that citizen, saying you're a hero. Tomorrow, the headline of the American papers will be about your heroism. He says, "Are you from New York?" He says, "No. Are you from America?" So, for God's sake, under the beauty of this country, don't change the headlines when you see the signature of the AK PARTY. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0323par0446	Thank you, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0324par0447	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0323par0448	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0324par0449	He insulted our party. I want to answer.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0323par0450	Here you go, Mr. Slim. I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0324par0454	My late grandfather used to describe it to me, saying: "My son, look, watch out for the children of this family. Yavuz suppresses the thief's host. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, my fear is that you describe yourself as religious, but corruption also clings to you. ▪ Children, young ones, will cool off from Islam, join Islam with corruption. This is my fear. Now, he says: Didn't Mr. Kilicdaroğlu see the Lighthouse logo when he went to Kenya? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, the church is dark, the priest is deaf, the air is heavy as a bullet. I shout and shout, and call you to conscience. Have a heart for once.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0325par0460	What do you want with these priests? What's your problem with priests?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0324par0461	They put up the papers, they put up the papers, and I still don't understand how your eyes are closed and your hearts are sealed. I mean, it's kind of embarrassing to say that Mr. Kilicdaroglu was talking to the great Prime Minister of this country! My brother...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0326par0462	He's not saying, he's insulting me.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0324par0463	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Congressman... you're the late Prime Minister. You, the hero of the Wars of the Inön, commander of the Garp Front, died, died 40 years ago, you told the founder of this country, the President of this country, the dead man, the fascist, everything. How can you say that? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Have we ever said a word to Fevzi Çakmak, Kazim Karabekir, who has broken ties with our party? That's our government discipline. About Erbakan's estates, Turkey is mixed up, we haven't said a word, and he's dead. Their kids are at each other's throats. The orphans' money, the coins, the alms, the Bosnian money, did they not win or not, brother?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0327par0468	You're not telling me!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0324par0469	Aren't you ashamed to talk about it? Aren't you ashamed?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0328par0471	Aren't you saying?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0324par0472	Look, did the fight begin over Erbakan's children or not? What money are these? We don't talk about this in our manners. That's not what we're trying to say.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0329par0473	That's right, that's right!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0324par0474	Dear friends, what you're saying is, let me make it clear to you, look, I'll make a summary of your philosophy, the summation is this: it rings, but it works! This is your summation. Do not attribute corruption to yourselves. I know I have some very sensitive friends of yours. Don't worry about the list next semester, let alone being a congressman again, you'll already change 65 percent...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0330par0475	You'll have it!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0324par0476	They're not going to put it on the list again. Come, stand up straight... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm telling you to be violent, to be honest, to be honest, to be judgmental. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0331par0481	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0332par0482	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0331par0483	Here you go, Mr. Card.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0332par0484	Mr. President, the AKP spokeswoman has been taunting the Republican People's Party Group by making assessments, such as the lying shepherd, the duck mentality, for the evidence we have provided. I'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0331par0485	Mr. Kart, your deputy president of the group has responded.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0332par0486	No, he responded to the Republican People's Party on issues of corporate personality...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0331par0487	What did he say about you?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0332par0488	...but he's been taunting us in terms of the 69th amendment to our motion. I'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0331par0489	Mr. Card won't say anything about your proposal?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0333par0490	He told the people who gave him the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0331par0491	No, if there's bullying, just tell me where it is.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0334par0492	Look, these are the exact statements against the motion makers, the motion makers, the speakers...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0331par0493	What did he say?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0334par0494	▪ Is there anything more to this than a lying shepherd, a duck mentality?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0331par0495	Here you go, Mr. Card.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0334par0498	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, I would like to express your arrogance and ego aside. If you want to serve Turkey, if you want to serve our country, leave aside your arrogance, ego, and your sense of inadequacy and potential, subject yourself to self-evaluation within a self-criticism filter.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0335par0500	You have it, you have it!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0336par0501	Mr. Orator, watch your mouth!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0334par0502	Another thing, another piece of advice: look, you're in power, stop saying hate. Stop politics on hate speech, dissension speech. You're really ruining the country. Reevaluate yourself at this point. After these statements, I will say: "Look, I will once again express my questions, my evidence, my documents, before I make the move and demagogue, before I fall into this trap. Look, what's he saying, Mr. Speaker? Sir, he's doing extremely cheap, extremely low-level evaluations, such as his description of the lying shepherd. We ask the speaker, we say... look, we give dates, we give numbers, we issue 34 pages of report. We're talking about the Office of Associations, who's in charge of the Minister. What did he say about the apartment? He said: "There are documents of false documents in the activities of this association, because the records of income expenses are inconsistencies, the rules of free competition have been violated." There are no more conditions for public benefit here. It is called. Would you mind answering that?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0337par0504	He answered.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0334par0505	Can you give me an explanation for that? Look, what's he saying? What does it say there in the papers? What does it say in those documents? In the documents, the Capital Market Board mentions three defendants, saying: "These have committed crimes." Why are those reports being turned upside down and protected by those people? That's what we're asking. Why don't you give me the answers?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0338par0506	He'll give us justice, the investigation continues.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0334par0507	Is there anything more concrete than that? Could there be any more concrete evidence? The Minister of Interior of the Republic of Turkey, the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Turkey, the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Turkey, answers to the motion, why is there no report when that 34-page report is present? Do we think that would suit the ministers of the Republic of Turkey? Dear friends, are we saying something wrong? The ministers of the Republic of Turkey do not lie, they do not lie.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0339par0511	Thank you, Mr. Card.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0340par0512	You got it wrong.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0334par0513	What's wrong with that? Shouldn't that be answered? Shouldn't that be explained? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0341par0516	He'll explain in a minute.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0342par0520	Now, on behalf of the government, Bashir Atalay, Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0343par0523	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first I salute the High Council. Of course, about what we're talking about... it's not a new subject, friends, I'd like to start by expressing it first. Mr. President of the Republican People's Party has already brought this up on different platforms, and the same issues have come to parliament this time. It's like, when it happened, and it was said, and what did we say, and I want to make them brief. First, of course, with inappropriate words and slanders about my party and myself, on a holiday day, on September 2, last summer, at Ramadan Day, Kenya, Somalia, where she was mentioned earlier, she gave such information to the journalists and appeared in the newspapers. On the same day, we made this statement, so since it's the same subject, I'm reading this so I don't have to explain anymore: ▪ Some reports of interference in an ongoing judicial process are being brought up in various publications today. During my Ministry of Interior, there was absolutely no directness to any of the cases that went on before or after. These allegations, which have been attributed to me, are completely unrealistic, baseless, and utterly false. We have nothing to do with the case we're talking about, nor have we had an intervention to affect the course of the case. These allegations were turned into political slander and defamation campaigns by the head of the main opposition party, which brought up my person, the interior ministry, and the EC PARTY government. It is a great example of irresponsibility, an ugly and unbecoming policy that the CHP President put himself in the position of the prosecutor of the ongoing trial and tried to link him to the case and the AK PARTI. As it is a crime for Mr. Kilicdaroglu to comment and evaluate the ongoing case, it is also an act of irresponsibility that exceeds the limits of morality and mercy by condemning innocent people.' We explained it in writing that day, and the same things were said today, and the next day it was all over the press. But that went on for a while, and at a Republican People's Party group meeting, they were told just now that they were waving a red file -- as if they had made prosecutors and indictments -- again. It's another libel case. We made a statement at the time, and then it was very unfortunate for Turkish politics that the People's Party of the Republic, after saying what I had said, would take an approach to lie and slander and resort to such a defamation campaign against my witness and the AK PARTI government. It is a serious loss of policy that the CHP leader, who has not developed a serious expression on the issues of the country concerned with our people, has embraced to reverse the party's internal disturbances. The fact that the CHP's president positioning himself as a detective is cheap and low-level is a subject that the CHP's administration appreciates. This is a written statement I made at the time, which is not new, so I'm rereading it for him. Mr. Kilicdaroglu's speech, however, presents problems and dangers in terms of the understanding of the legal state, which can't be ignored by all public opinion. First of all, I have to stress that comment and evaluation of an ongoing investigation is a crime. Declareing innocent people guilty is both a crime and a lack of morality, playing with honor and dignity. Those who are not fond of their own honor play with the dignity of others. I repeat the same thing. Passing information from the confidential investigation file is a violation of the law to share the leaked file information with the public without its lawyers knowing it's true. It is the duty of all those who respect the law and have a conscience to observe these sensibilities. After that, I have filed a lawsuit against Mr. Kilicdaroğlu and my case continues. Dear friends, this is what I'm going to say again about what's actually being said here. I mean, I never go into those details, thanks to my brother Zeyid, he's already expressed some of them. But what I'm saying is that the same thing again, there's no plus one, and what they say there is being brought to Parliament as a gene. Mr. President, dear MPs, of course this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and you've heard what's being said. Finally, because it doesn't fit in with our manners, I don't want to take those words in my mouth here, but this is a place where serious matters have to be discussed in the context of thought, ideas and knowledge. No one plays like a judge here with dignity, dignity, dignity. No session, no geneorization, is a place for people to play with the cheap dignity of people who are here or who aren't. This file is a case file, and it's on trial, and it's not like we've got a statement or anything.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0344par0532	Mr. Secretary, isn't it a shame for these people, tens of thousands of foreigners, to earn their money?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0343par0533	Next to him, of course, my friends told me about the procedure of the gene. Well, I can't go past that as the person who's dealing with it, so we all know that it's true, it's the most effective instrument in Parliament, as an inspection, as an inspection, we'll all agree to that, but there'll be a concrete document here. The gene is very important, the gene is not a written question motion, my friends. The gene is a subject that can be dealt with at very serious times, and so, with no concreteness of any of them, completely slandering... look, I'm saying it here, knowingly speaking the word: all lies and slanders can't be the geneor of the allegations here. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Guys, I'm not going to dig in for him, wow, he started a company about 15 years ago with, like...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0345par0536	Lie or lie?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0343par0537	Dear friends, look, you're being unfair here, with this motion, with this kind of motion. It's not fair, I'm saying it, and on the other hand...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0346par0538	Sir, what do you have to say about the allegations?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0343par0539	On the other hand, look, my friends told me, and this is the Constitution, and there's a clause assigned to Parliament in this Constitution, which Zayid just said.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0347par0540	There's a clause in that Constitution about prosecutors, so why did you relieve them?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0343par0541	The third paragraph of Article 138, I read: "There is no question about the use of judicial authority in the Legislative Assembly concerning a case that is being seen, there is no discussion or any statement of any kind. This is the third third of the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0347par0542	Why did you take it, says the prosecutors.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0348par0543	Now, dear friends, this gene...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0347par0544	What does that Constitution say? Why did you take it, says the prosecutors.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0349par0545	Listen, brother!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0347par0546	You don't know, Minister of Health, he says the Constitution, and the prosecutors say he can't be dismissed.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0350par0547	Mr. Tanal, please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0349par0548	Learn to listen!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0347par0549	You don't know, Minister of Health, you just don't know...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0350par0550	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0351par0551	This shouldn't be given by the CHP, and the Parliamentary Presidency shouldn't accept this gene. That's what I'm saying here. I mean, it's against the Constitution to bring this up.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0347par0552	Read that Constitution, and according to that Constitution, you can't remove the prosecutor, why did you?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0351par0553	Otherwise, if you've got a bet, there's a case going on, you give it to the D.A. You sent that red file to the D.A.'s office, and the D.A.'s gonna take care of it anyway. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Mr. President, dear friends, of course, here, the speakers are referring to the name of our Prime Minister, the EC PARTY, and here they are referring to their involvement in corruption and so on.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0347par0556	Come on, let's announce everyone's fortune in the House right now.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0351par0557	Now, anyone with a conscience will see...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0347par0558	Let's announce everyone's fortune in this House.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0352par0559	Mr. Tanal, please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0347par0560	Sir, in a transparent state, everyone's fortunes are open.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0352par0561	Your speakers have spoken, so what should we do in this House? And you've made allegations, shouldn't we, Mr. Secretary? Please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0347par0562	Dear President, in a transparent country, the source of everyone's wealth must be transparent.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0352par0563	There's a pattern, there's a code of conduct in the House, so, please... Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0353par0565	Mr. President, you see, we, members of the EC PARTI, are aware that when we serve our citizens, we will answer to our citizens and to God, we will calculate that account every day, everyone be sure of that. (APPLAUSE) Maybe we don't do our jobs very well, but with Allah's permission, no one can answer for a penny and our lives are so open, our lives are so transparent, so clear.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0354par0567	Mr. Secretary, it's called the use of religious politics, so please don't use that concept with corruption.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0353par0568	So you will not be able to put the name of the EC PARTY together with corruption and so forth, and no one will be able to do so by Allah's leave.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0355par0569	You're already doing it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0353par0570	AK PARTY is a service party, a party of troubled people for their country.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0356par0571	You don't respond to allegations.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0353par0572	I'm giving you what I gave you in the beginning, in the group conversation, that's all, and I'm not giving you anything after that.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0356par0573	But we make other claims, we make documents, you have to answer them.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0353par0574	Yeah, now, of course, the whole point is...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0356par0575	Your friends, Mr. Minister, will answer. He said, "Your ministers will answer."
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0353par0576	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0357par0577	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0358par0578	Instead of talking to Mahmoud Tanal, speak to the bandit.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0353par0579	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0358par0580	Does it suit you?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0359par0581	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0353par0582	...of course, the whole point is...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0358par0583	Does it suit you not to speak to the bandit?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0359par0584	Mr. Agha, you promised here yesterday, please... you promised on the stand yesterday, please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0353par0585	There's an unvisioned main opposition party, that's the whole point.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0360par0586	I'd rather be without a conscience than without a vision.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0353par0587	A main opposition party with no perspective to offer thought. It's a main opposition party that puts its hope on negative politics. Yet there is not a single party in the world that is in power with negative politics.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0361par0588	Sir, answer the allegations, the allegations.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0353par0589	Every day, everything that goes on, no visions, no offers, no cheap sleuthing files, six empty files... all the files that Mr. General President has uncovered so far have come up empty.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0362par0591	Where's Dengir Mir Firat? Where's Dengir Mir Firat?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0353par0592	These things don't give you power, guys. The citizen wants vision for the future, the citizen wants hope for the future, he wants politics, he wants strategy, he wants power with them.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0363par0593	Mr. Secretary, you answer the allegations, you answer the allegations.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0353par0594	So it's negative, and it's not powered by looking for what he lacks, hoping to find what power and ministers lack, so that I can spend time with them every day. You're going to produce something, something, hope for the citizen, hope.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0364par0595	Answer the allegations.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0365par0596	You'll be honest, honest. Isn't honesty important?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0353par0597	The measure of honesty, citizen...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0365par0598	Oh, you just thought of that. You just thought of that.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0353par0599	He measures it with his conscience, with his knowledge, with his intuition. Look, let me give you an example. There are polls these days.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0366par0601	Mr. Secretary, answer the allegations. We're here to hear your response to the allegations.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0353par0602	There's five studies that we've done or other agencies have done, five of them.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0367par0603	You set everyone up to come to power.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0368par0604	You own the research companies!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0353par0605	In all of them, the CHP votes are falling, all of which are the votes of the AK PARTY. I wonder why.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0368par0606	Sir, this goes into commercials, Mr. President, commercials.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0353par0607	Look at the main opposition...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0368par0608	He's advertising his own research company!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0353par0609	...it's only for Turkey to be in charge and to drop the game, just...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0368par0611	This isn't a commercial spot.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0353par0612	It doesn't exist anywhere in the world.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0368par0613	This isn't a commercial spot.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0369par0614	No names, no names. I know.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0368par0615	Mr. President, this is a commercial. The company advertises.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0370par0616	Could you be the secret partners of those companies?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0371par0617	You don't have power over slander files and cheap sleuths and citizens don't vote.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0372par0618	Shame! Shame! Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0371par0619	But our consolation is that our people know all about it, who's honest, who's not, who's exploiting, who's serving, who's not, who's talking.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0373par0621	Mr. Secretary, please respond to the allegations. All these people are waiting for it, we're all waiting for it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0371par0622	Mr. President, I, of course, would like to state here...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0374par0623	Sooner or later, you'll answer.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0371par0624	Praise the Lord...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0375par0625	Mr. Secretary, there's a part of this that the interrogation angels ask. I think you should think about it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0371par0626	Praise be to God, as the AK PARTY, I am proud and honored to be under the identity of the EC PARTY, one of the greatest blessings God has bestowed upon us, and I consider it a privilege to be here.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0376par0628	Answer the allegations. Look, everybody's waiting.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0371par0629	This is a blessed movement and a change in Turkey. We're changing Turkey. Today... don't they know that Turkey has changed? Aren't they going down that road? Do they not then see? Don't they know how much Turkey has developed? But they come here every day with such slanders and lies. Dear friends, the important thing is that everyone knows. We have nothing to hide.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0377par0632	You're fooling people.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0371par0633	I salute you all. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0378par0636	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0379par0637	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0378par0638	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0379par0639	He insulted the Republican People's Party Group. He said "No visionary CHP." He said "No morality." He said a lot of things like that.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0378par0640	Here you go, Mr. Slim. I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0379par0645	Thank you, Mr. President. First, the politician has no right: "We give the account to God. " There is no such thing. Everyone will answer to God.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0380par0647	To the people, to the people!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0379par0648	Everyone will answer to God. The politician will answer to the court and answer to Parliament. The future won't tell tales here, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0380par0649	It's all a fairy tale.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0379par0650	You came here and told a story for 20 minutes. You didn't answer any bets. Now look, I'll tell you this: What happened to the foot of the lighthouse in Germany? What about the Turkish foot? As some of my friends say, I won't be able to vouch for Mr. Arinc, no one will be sorry. It's a trick not to steal, and it's a trick not to steal. I don't know the "don't play" part, but I know it's missing the "don't ring" part. Now look, Mr. Zeyid Aslan, you said the American press made an innocent Iraqi look like a murderer.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0381par0653	Did you know that the Iraqi was Kurd?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0379par0654	Congressmans, 1.5 million Iraqis killed, women raped, mosques bombed in Iraq. Did you guys hear that?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0382par0655	No, the ears won't hear!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0379par0656	And you didn't hear that? Well, your president, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0383par0658	Don't you know, Mr. Muharrem?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0379par0659	I pray for American soldiers. Did he say? (HPP said in rows.) Has Ankara welcomed, entertained, chatted with anyone who put a bag on the head of a Turkish soldier? (HPP in rows) He did. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Get 'em, get 'em! Now, look, I'll tell you one thing: the deal you made with the United States is this:
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0384par0663	When you don't hold the gene...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0379par0664	They told you: "One: we will destroy Libya. We will destroy Iraq. We will destroy Iran. We will destroy Syria. As Turkey, you, the AKP, will help us. You said, "Yes, you did."
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0385par0665	Democracy flourished there, democracy. The dictators collapsed there. Are you uncomfortable?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0379par0666	You said, "Well, what do we get in return?" What do we get in return?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0385par0667	Does it bother you that the dictators have collapsed?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0379par0668	America said to you: "In return, you will destroy the Republic." You will destroy the Turkish army, you will destroy the university, you will destroy secularism. This is the bargain you're making.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0386par0669	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0379par0670	You've made this bargain. You made that bargain. We come here and we're looking for money for charity, money for the poor, money for the orphan, money for the poor. That's what we're here for. We're not slandering anyone, it's all documented. Aren't the documents of Hasan Koren, the documents of Mr. Koren, the documents of Mr. Gök? Is there a father-in-law, a father-in-law of law, a moderator, a father-in-law who can argue with Levent Gök ▪ and Hasan Ören. On a television show?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0387par0672	Where's the heart?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0379par0673	But I'm not surprised that Zayid Aslan was also a lawyer for the Sivas case... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm not surprised that the Lighthouse's here, and he's a lawyer. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0388par0678	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0389par0679	Everyone sees the other one as their own.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0379par0680	I don't answer to the ladies.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0390par0681	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0391par0682	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0392par0683	If you'd like, Congressmans, let's get everyone out front. Please have a seat... Mr. Vural has a request. Let's hear it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0393par0685	Sir, I'll... finish the process on these taunts, I just have a supply before the vote.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0392par0686	Mr. Aslan, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0394par0687	Sir, don't tease...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0392par0688	What did he say and pick on you? [[Noises]] Just a second, Mr. Lawmakers... I have to ask Mr. Aslan. What did he say?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0394par0691	He made a comment on my words, gave me my name, and said I was a lawyer for Sivas and the Lighthouse.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0392par0692	Here you go, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0394par0695	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again, with respect. I didn't think my words would actually touch so much, but it's pretty touching, I guess. I won't answer the words. Yes, I was the attorney for the Sivas case, and I drafted the Foundation of the Lighthouse. [HIP rows ▪Bravoا voices, applause (!) I mean, if you're wondering, it's already on the record. But I'm going to say a sentence that I can't say just now because it's not enough time, and I'm going to tell another joke, or I'm going to say it: Mr. President, in a speech here, address the president of the Republican People's Party at the time, Mr. President, change your guide. Your guides mislead you. He said so. Now, there's a story, Bekri Mustafa, many of you know...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0395par0698	You tell stories all the time.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0394par0699	It is, it is. A man died, went to the afterlife. Sure, they're curious, what's in the afterlife. They said, "What's going on in the world?"
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0396par0701	Here's what he's going to say, the AKP came to power, isn't it?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0394par0702	He said: "By Allah, Bekri Mustafa was an imam in our neighborhood, so you can think about the rest." What more can I say? My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0397par0705	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0398par0706	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0397par0707	So I don't have to explain anything.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0398par0708	I didn't ask, Mr. Slim. I said, "Here you are."
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0397par0709	I don't think so, after the last sentence.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0398par0710	Well, I said come in, so I didn't ask. Mr. Slim, please... you're not going to tell a story, are you?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0399par0712	Bravo, Mayor, congratulations. You've determined it's a story.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0398par0713	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0400par0715	Thank you. Yeah, look, I always want to be on the edge of criticism, I want to talk to the document, I want to talk to the information. I mean, you can't have politics with insulting words like that, but I know how to do it if you want it, and I can do it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0401par0717	At this rate, so will you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0400par0718	I mean, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Recep Erdogan became world leader, so... what a world leader, what a world leader! He's gone to Iran... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, I'll tell you, I'll tell you. He went to Iran, and made Ahmadinejad wait two days in Iran. (AK PARTY desks) He met with the Turkmenistan delegation and did not meet with Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0402par0722	Don't be jealous!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0400par0723	Earth leader? The leader. Now, look, his best friend was Berlusconi, and he can't get out of the house, Berlusconi, and soon our world leader won't be able to leave. So there's going to be a human... Look, I don't want to talk to the presidents like this, but I'm just saying this because Mr. Zeyid is talking. Then I'll tell you this, I'm reading from an interview, Mr. Prime Minister explains, he says: "I don't read books, I read books. " From a person who doesn't read books, he becomes Prime Minister of Turkey, and you don't criticize him, and you don't criticize him? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, I'll tell you this, I'll tell you this second from this bench, and I'll tell you this to the second: if you have a heart then... look, you were saying earlier, as to the removal of immunity, you were saying: "Judged, the judiciary is spiteful, ambitious; we do not remove immunity for him." Now, look, Mr. Presidents of the group, I am the deputy of Mr. Kılıçdaroğlu, and you are Mr. Erdoğan's deputy. On behalf of Mr. Kilicdaroglu, I give you my word, bring it and I'll sign it. Tomorrow bring Mr. Kilicdaroğlu's immunity file, and we'll raise it together. All right, but in exchange, you bring the Prime Minister's immunity file, and we'll remove the immunity of the two tomorrow. Do you have such a heart? Look, even though you make judgment your own backyard, just in case there are honest, conscientious judges in this country, let's just remove the immunity of two people and let them answer to the judgment.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0403par0727	People are lifting it, people!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0400par0728	When he comes to throw, you don't leave ashes in the grill, you don't do anything about it. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0404par0731	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0405par0732	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0404par0733	Here you go, Mr. Card.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0405par0734	In his speech, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0404par0735	Here, Mr. Card, I'm not asking.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0405par0736	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0404par0737	Only if you don't tell a story.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0405par0739	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again, I salute the General Assembly. Mr. Secretary, of course, he gave a really emotional and exciting speech, made some very elaborate statements, abstract statements. He expressed his satisfaction and pride in becoming a member of the ruling group. We don't have anything to say about that. We're not discussing your privacy, which party you belong to, that's not the point, Mr. Secretary. The speakers of the opposition lied and slandered. You said. And yet, before we fall into the trap of demagogy and eunuchs, we repeat the evidence that we just came up with. We say, "Mr. Minister, when you were Minister of Interior, why didn't you do the necessary work of the 34-page report from 25/3/2009 by the Office of the Association?" Would that be a more obvious question? Why don't you answer that question?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0406par0742	We did what we had to do.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0405par0743	You didn't, you didn't.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0406par0744	We did it all.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0405par0745	What are you doing, like you didn't do? In your response to the Ankara Representative's 21/12/2009 report that there is no such report, you say. Is that not a false statement? Is it appropriate to give false statements to the Minister of Interior of the Republic of Turkey? The question is that clear. Shouldn't there be an answer to that, my dear friends? Why does the interior minister of the Republic of Turkey feel the need to lie, not once, but several times, to lie? What are you doing? In the 26/2/2010 response you gave to our proposal, you say: "There is no document in the reports of the Lighthouse in 2007 and 2009 concerning the missing conditions for the status of the community working for the public.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0406par0747	Right, right.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0405par0748	No, the 34-page report turns around and emphasizes it. You're lying again.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0406par0749	What you're saying is a lie.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0405par0750	It's not enough, there's a report from the Capital Market Board on March 1st, and you're not doing it properly. And in that report, we see that the Zahid Akmans, Zechariah Karamans, and Zahid Akmans, are being charged again, and there is a report from one to three years in which they will be punished, and you are not doing what is necessary. What is this, Mr. Secretary, if not concrete evidence? What does that have to do with lying and slandering? If you don't give me those answers, these charges, they're... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You're doomed to fall under the weight of allegations.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0407par0754	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0408par0755	Here you go, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0407par0756	Mr. Minister, all your claims are false and false, he said. And I'm an advocacy MP. He's telling me, Mr. Secretary, that I'm making a false claim. Please, I want a promise, two minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0408par0757	So, Mr. Kören, do we now know how many times Mr. Kart?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0407par0758	I'm responsible for myself, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0408par0759	I know, but...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0407par0760	What I've been told...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0408par0761	Now, I don't think lying or anything like that is an issue of teasing here because it's become so ordinary and ordinary.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0407par0762	I'm responsible for myself. Please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0408par0763	Here you go, Mr. Könen. Here you go, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0407par0766	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been in prison for 18 months because they have opened banners in this country. There have been children in this country who have been punished for stealing baklava for decades. Now, here's my bet. Minister of Sports says: "Yes, I have sold the car to the City of Turgut, I have not been ethical."
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0409par0768	I sold it. He didn't say it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0407par0769	The Minister of Sports says: I sold the $44,000 car for $49,000. So, what kind of evidence do you want?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0410par0771	He didn't make that statement, Mr. Ören. He didn't make that statement.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0407par0772	What evidence can we give you?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0411par0773	Read it in the transcript.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0407par0774	Here, friends, here are the reports. Mr. Secretary, let's go again.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0411par0776	Which municipality?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0407par0777	To Turgutlu City Hall.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0412par0778	Mr. Ören, the Minister's case is closed.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0407par0779	Friends, 100 percent of the institution he says belongs to the municipality.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0412par0780	Mr. Koren, please... talk to me about Mr. Atalay.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0407par0781	We're talking about a municipality that owns 100 percent of the institution he's talking about. Are you kidding yourself? A company called TURKAP is a subsidiary of the Turgutlu Municipality, like ESHOT in İzmir, which has 100 per cent shares.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0413par0782	Take him to the D.A.'s office.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0407par0783	Your inspectors are building headquarters there, and you can't send two inspectors to the municipality where the Minister is shopping? Didn't the Minister say that he sold this second-hand car for $49,000?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0414par0786	Mr. Koren, you've already said that, please, but...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0407par0787	How more evidence, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0414par0788	Well, that's what you said, Mr. Könen.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0407par0789	What kind of evidence do you want? Let's come back next time. So let the Minister inform us in writing what kind of evidence he wants, and we'll act accordingly. Here's the photocopy of the check, here's the notary. Mr. Secretary has no objection to the sale. Is that correct, Minister? You, Turtle... oh, if you say these events are too small, they're...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0415par0791	You're flexing!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0407par0792	I'm not.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0416par0793	You're twisting people's eyes.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0415par0794	You're flexing!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0407par0795	Come here, come here.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0417par0796	Mr. Ören, this has been discussed. Please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0407par0797	Did you sell your car to a subsidiary belonging to the Turgutlu municipality, TURKAP, the 100 percent Turgutian municipality? You sold it. Did you get the $49,000? You got it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0417par0798	So, Mr. Ören, are we going to discuss this again?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0418par0799	City hall?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0407par0800	City hall...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0418par0801	City hall?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0407par0802	City hall. If you prove there's no city, I'll apologize to you. What are you going to do? What other evidence would you like, Mr. President? Mr. Secretary, tell us what kind of document you want, and we'll get you a document like that. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0419par0806	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0420par0807	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0419par0808	Mr. Canikli, please.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0420par0809	Mr. President, in his speech earlier, Mr. Slim, as we will destroy the Republic...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0419par0810	Mr. Canikli, please don't let us make a new taunt.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0420par0813	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Of course, I'm not here to compare Mr. Kilicdaroglu to Mr. President because such a comparison would be insulting to our Prime Minister, and I will not make such a comparison.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0421par0816	Don't! If we say the same thing...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0420par0817	So I won't even attempt to compare them, dear friends, because this attempt would be an insult to our Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0422par0818	It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0420par0819	Of course, the Republican People's Party will not decide whether our Prime Minister is the world leader or not.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0423par0820	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0424par0821	Leave the leaders out of this.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0420par0822	If you want to see if our Prime Minister is the world leader, you will ask the people of Libya, you will ask the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you will ask the people of Macedonia...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0423par0824	Isn't your Prime Minister human? Can't he be criticized?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0420par0825	You will ask the people of the entire Arab world, you will ask the people of all the oppressed nations. You're going to ask these people if our Prime Minister is the leader of the world, and you're going to ask these people.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0425par0827	Then ask the Iraqi people, then the Syrian people, then the Iranian people.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0420par0828	Yes, you will ask the Syrian people and the Syrian people...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0425par0829	The people of Israel are not oppressed.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0420par0830	You will ask the Syrian people if our Prime Minister is the world leader. Our friend is the people of Syria, but your friend may be Esed. Go and ask Esed. Ask Hafiz Esed. He's your friend, you're going to him. You meet him, you consult with him.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0426par0831	Who took a vacation with a head of state in Bodrum?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0420par0832	Dear friends, about a year ago, I took part in our Prime Minister's trip to Tunisia, Libya and Egypt.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0427par0833	May God forgive you your sins.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0420par0834	All who heard of our Prime Minister's visit in Libya, all Libyans, families, women, young, old, everyone, tens of thousands. (CHP rows) See, the rally sites were organized in one province, in Benghazi, in three places at the same time, in three squares to meet our Prime Minister. Do you know who did all this? Libyan people did.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0428par0835	America's out there killing people, so don't back it up. Do not support America, Israel.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0420par0836	But our Prime Minister had access to only one area. People waiting in the other two squares waited until we left Libya until the end of the night, 03 p.m. They waited until 00, dear friends. And let Mr. Kilicdaroglu go. Let Mr. Kilicdaroglu go there.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0429par0837	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0430par0838	Mr. President, that's enough.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0420par0839	As a matter of fact, Sarkozy is gone and Cameron is gone. Fifteen people couldn't find it, so they tried to raise money to address it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0431par0840	He's gone to Hakkari.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0420par0841	So I say, again, what I said at the beginning of my speech: to compare our Prime Minister to Mr. Kilicdaroglu, at least, to the least...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0432par0843	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0433par0844	Don't mention the name of Kılıçdaroğlu!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0434par0845	Kilicdaroglu would never slaughter the Iraqis, he would never slaughter the Syrians.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0435par0846	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0436par0848	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0437par0849	Mr. Slim, final demands. Here you go, and then I promise Mr. Vural and I'll hang up. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0436par0851	Mr. President, Mr. Canicli...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0438par0852	He said, 'Here you are.'
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0436par0853	Did you tell him to come in? I'll explain.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0439par0854	I'm not asking anymore, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0440par0855	Mr. President, please end this.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0441par0856	We're withdrawing our motions so we don't talk...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0439par0857	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0442par0859	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Canikli, when you don't have anything to say, it's a shame to compare the two of them. The presidents are compared to the presidents, the members of the group, the members of the group, the MPs. There's nothing wrong with that. Now, look, I'm gonna say something. You say: "Go to the people of Libya, ask Erdogan." I will tell you this. Mr. Erdogan, did Prime Minister Gaddafi receive an award? Look, I'll give you three prizes: one, he received the Human Rights Prize from Gaddafi. So, did the Jew get the Courage Award? Did he receive an Islamic Service Award from Saudi Arabia? From Arabia to Islam, from Israel to Jewish Courage...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0443par0862	Not from Israel, but from the Jew.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0442par0863	From the Jew... good! Good! [[Laughter]] What about Gaddafi? He received the Human Rights Prize from Gaddafi.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0444par0866	Earth leader...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0442par0867	Look, now. Then, the day came, and Gaddafi sold our world leader, who sold it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0445par0868	Gaddafi killed his people.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0442par0869	His first explanation was, he said, "What's he doing here? What is NATO doing in Libya? Did he say that? He did. After a few days, did our soldiers, our planes, our ships bomb Libya? Did Muslims die in Libya? Did you send Turkish soldiers there?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0446par0870	They sent...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0447par0871	And he took a bag of money.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0442par0872	Did you send troops to NATO as Prime Minister? Look, now... now, another one. You, who was Assad in the past today, who was Esad in the past, was once Assad, and that's it, that's it. Even Assad puts the word "TRT" in "Esed" now. They say, "Yahu, once called Prime Minister Assad. My brother, my friend. They were doing the Joint Council of Ministers." It was called Shamgen, not Şengen, that business was developing, that companies were forming.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0448par0874	Then he was the representative of the people.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0442par0875	Now, are you helping to bomb Syria? Are you a puppet of America? You're doing it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0449par0876	He killed his people, his people! The Defense Assad. Assad is killing his people now.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0442par0877	Yeah. Look, you bomb the Muslims, then you come here, you put the ranking into the law, you put a Koran in it, and you try to cover up the shame.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0450par0878	You support Assad's bombing of Muslims. Pull this support first.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0451par0879	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0442par0880	It doesn't suit you. It doesn't suit you. Of course, it would be shameful to compare the person who did these with the leader who did these things with Mr. Kilicdaroglu. [[From the CHP rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0452par0883	Thank you, Mr. Slim. Mr. Vural, do you want your position?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0453par0885	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0452par0886	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0453par0887	Mr. President, of course, Deputy Prime Minister Brent Arinc vouches for a minister who is so hesitant about these issues, that the institution should not be worn out by allegations about Zahid Akman. In this respect, my plea from you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc, if he can vouch for you, give him a five-minute break so he can use that vote, and he can vouch for you, or the whole nation will see you bailed out.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit03spe0452par0888	Thank you. Your words have been filed, Mr. Vural. Talks on whether or not to bring up the motion to ask about Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay has been completed. Now, I submit to your votes on whether or not the motion of the gene will be taken into consideration: those who have agreed to the motion of the gene... those who have refused to accept... the motion of the gene is not accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0452par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 87th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Congressmans, the Council of Counsellors has a proposal that I will have read and process and submit to your votes: At a meeting of the Council of Advice 31/03/2012 on Saturday, it has been agreed that the General Assembly should not meet on Sunday 01/04/2012. Anybody want a word on the suggestion? No. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will continue the talks of Justice and Development Party Deputy Chairs Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. We will continue with the Tunceli MP Kamer Yün. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under Disasters in the 2nd place, as well as with the Publicity, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Kars MP Ahmet Arslan and Bursa MP Hussein Şahin and 7 MPs will resume their talks with the Plan and Budget Commission Report, where we left off from. The commission and the government are in place. Talks on Article 7 were completed in the 82nd Union of 22/3/2012. The question-answer will now be carried out on the matter for ten minutes. Members of parliament entering the system: Mr. Türkoglu, Mr. Iş and Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Turkoglu... no. Mr. Light... you won't ask. Mr. Erdogan... no. No motions on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 8-The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Kazim Kurt, Eskişehir MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] (x) 194 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 80th Consolidation Charter, dated 20/03/2012. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0454par0040	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Law and the Law on Amendments in the Law on the Act of Public Relations, on the Law on Added Value Tax Act 194, and on the Frame of Some Investments and Services Investigation-Development Model. We brought our reviews to this law, in the Plan and Budget Commission, to state our opposition votes. However, the law is about to be completed, regardless of criticism from the General Assembly. As you know, this is a bag of legislation and by this law, we are making changes in VAT Law 3065, Health Services Act 3359, Act 3996 and Public Relations Act 4734. In fact, we're also trying to make amends for the mistakes made earlier in law enforcement. First of all, this law is developing a formula that will completely privatise the presentation of health care, and in this direction, an assessment of investments in hospitals and public private partnership enterprises in the coming process, but while we're doing that, without knowing what the account is, without knowing what it's going to be, we're burdening a treasury with a credit bond. There may be a serious charge of tampering with the tenders of participants who have been held in this direction and who have been engaged in the tenders and who have been reluctant to participate in the tender in the past, or who have been paid accordingly by the tenders. Dear friends, now, in part of this law, we would like to bring in an application outside the Public Contracts Act on the purchases of the State Railways from their own businesses. Here we need to see the contradiction between privatisations and previous applications. So far, there has been a serious economic exercise in not running companies within the State Railways, one of which is the TELOMSASIS account in Eskişehir. I believe that the State Railways, after the future arrangement with this law, aim to regulate their relationship with TILOMSASY. But TILOMSAS is now seriously reduced and unable to make major investments. There is a possibility that there will be trouble in the future. My dear friends, the do-and-do model is actually a model in Turkey that should have serious debates about labour health, job safety and subcontractorization. There is an infrastructure support that will cause serious problems in business security, as we have lived in Istanbul in the past weeks -- uninsured work, uninsured work in companies that we can't control. In addition, public-private partnerships will be brought in and the public will be narrowed down in the field of duty. For example, the public may withdraw from health. When the public withdraws from health care, the chances of this being inspected will be eliminated and we will create new monopolyes. And when we create new monopolyes, it will eliminate the competitive environment, and there will be some damage that cannot be compensated for. As the Republican People's Party, there is a serious unfair competition, especially on the exception of VAT, as we strongly emphasise on the opposition. We have asked many times: What tenders have been started, what jobs are there, and what companies will benefit from this? Unfortunately, we have not been able to answer those questions. We'll keep asking questions about these questions that we don't get answers from. Minister, in this particular practice, I'd like to ask you why your work on the Eskişehir, about the underground railroad, has been left incomplete. In this regard, you must put together a solution that will satisfy Eskişehir, which will comfort the Eskişehir people, because we have also paralyzed Eskişehir traffic as it is now, we have found a serious problem in Eskişehir, and we have a serious problem in Eskişehir, because you cannot have a common relationship with the municipalities and municipalities. You've been watching this for a long time. We offer you to work together on this, to plan with the city of Eskişehir, because if we can't eliminate this tender in the passage of the fast train line in Eskişehir, we'll have divided Eskişehir in two. When we divide Eskişehir in two, the problem will be to pull it off with a wall like the Berlin wall in the future. In this regard, I would especially like you to consider our suggestion that you should do or do a project, considering the opinions of experts on more aesthetics, a little bit more modern and a little bit more transportation. In particular, there was a request from Mr. President to be underground from the entrance of Eskişehir, as well as a request from the people of Eskişehir, so I think it would be helpful for you to consider the plans of Eskişehir Metropolitan Municipality. Otherwise, this project will damage the long-awaited project Eskişehir, causing your bonus points in Eskişehir. While these issues are being evaluated, again, the connection of the building-business-development to State Railways and connected businesses must be well assessed because this may be one of the formulas for improving and increasing this issue. But I also find it helpful to re-enact the possibility of creating audits and new monopolyes. For these reasons, we, the Republican People's Party, continue our insistence that this law be reconsidered and that it may be the last amendment, but it will be withdrawn. I'd like to extend our regards to all of you by repeating our views that a law that is capable of auditing people and the safety of the law should be made. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0455par0052	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Sırrı Süzeyya Önder, İstanbul MP who wants to speak on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0456par0056	Adding the remaining minute from the Golden Tan, Mr. President... Mr. President, dear friends, when I just saw what happened with the leaders of the two political parties, our own leaders came to my mind, you know, we had two presidents... who used to crush the Shah of Iran's opponents, you know, with the slightest bit of opposition, they would suppress them with great violence. It's become more and more difficult to let in those who praise the Shah of Iran. And they were saying to them: 'Does our Shah need to be praised? Does he need to be praised? He's heading for a place like this. Like any mortal, leaders can be criticized. I was thankful for the democracy at our party.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0457par0058	I think you've got more than two.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0456par0059	Muharrem Ence, we all have independent initiatives. Dear friends, I'm going to give a general talk about this do-and-do model. We've all forgotten the system, and it seems reasonable to us. I don't do much on this bench, I usually express my own thoughts, but this is the first time I'm going to read a report, someone else's thoughts. I'm going to share with you a review report, which was originally 309 pages and was submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with decision number 5088/1. In 2004, at a time when the EC PARTY was in power, what did the do-and-work policy bring to this country, what did it take? Rather, I take back the one who brought it, and he brought nothing; and what did he take away? The Court says, and I don't. So I'm going to sum it up in terms of using the time, and I'm going to quote it, and I'm going to say, I gave him his number, and I'm willing to share that report with my friend, including Mr. Secretary. Now, it says here that under the report, with the do-and-do model 24 and the do-do model... That's because it's a matter of inquiry. I'm here when I tell you what the investigation is all about. People who are very careful and sensitive about Turkish pride and consciousness and the virtue of Islam do not realize that they have all these qualities in mind. This is the most valuable place for Muslimism and nationalism. Stranger, I don't care about your court when I invest in this country. It may be that he's looking out for your national interests, so we'll be tried in my own court. He says, "You don't call this an attack on your national dignity and morality and virtue." I'll pass on that. In total, 29 investments in power plants, including five with a do-it-do model, have been studied, and the mains of the problems that have been identified have been briefly referred to below, says the Court. This is becoming more reckless now, since the YID model has not been announced about the construction model -- the plants being built -- has not been made, has not been offered by other companies. In view of the supply-teleptic balance of the santrals, it should be determined by the Ministry, but as a result of the selection of these places to the companies, it does not call them a socialist deputy, says the Court. In some areas, plants are built to generate much more energy than demand, and new transmission lines have been invested because the energy produced is not needed in that region, which has led to increasing energy costs and increasing loss and flight rates. Based on failed feasibility reports organised by companies in violation of regulations, project adoptions have been made, and negative opinions on the feasibility reports of connected and related organisations have not been taken into account. According to Law provisions 3096, contracts have been signed with companies that operate in different areas, even though they are possible to produce electricity alone, and it is still the Council of Ministers's office's mandate to determine operating times in the same agreements, while the Ministry has increased the operating time of some projects without the decision of the Council of Ministers. Well, if it isn't the opposition, you're looking at the account of $3,5,000. The amount of investments determined by the firms, and the amount of self-investigation rates, without any research or analysis, are exactly the same as when agreements signed with companies were issued with provisions against the public, and the total investment costs are higher than those that do not reflect the truth, and the purchase of energy from the companies' investments investments. Congressmans, Deputy from Erzurum... In some cases, the income has been raised to higher rates of 85 per cent. Look, this is how a country is free. I'm running out of time, so I'll get to the end. Although the firms have completed the plants at lower prices in feasibility reports than their initial bids, the investment period has led to higher investment costs by allowing the costs (especially in natural gas plants) to be escalated at a rate of between 4.6 per cent and 5% per year.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0458par0072	When was it given, what tenders?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0456par0073	If there's an extension, let me explain, or I'll give you the report.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0458par0074	What tenders?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0456par0075	I'll give you the report.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0458par0076	Well, that's one thing to say.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0456par0077	Okay, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0458par0078	When was it made?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0459par0079	I'll give you the remaining time from Mr. Tan. Mr. Commander, please.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0456par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. You didn't listen well, I told you at the beginning. The application concession contracts signed with tasked companies have been changed over and over again, and with each change the total investments and electricity sales tariffs of the projects have been increased, the operating deadlines extended, early production, lack of production, and more production prices have been changed.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0460par0083	That's not what I'm saying, when was the tender made, what tenders?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0456par0084	▪ Such changes are entirely in line with the demands of companies and have not been made necessary in terms of public interest, which has led to increased risk for the public sector. Members of the Council, listen carefully to this:..as a result of all of these practices, $2.3 billion in public damage has occurred during the average four years of powering the power plants...what can I tell you, the Court report. Now, when we're out here, we're always saying to the AK PARTY MPs, we're not telling you anything new, we're not telling you anything new, it's not our fault, it's not our skill, it's our ability to remind you of what we've forgotten. When you came to this order, when this system first came here, our friends, especially from the tradition of national opinion, called it the cult regime. If there had been any reward for what you said against the Law, He would have made you hang on that Day. You've made so many others, so many acceptances, so many human, Islamic, economic acceptances that you were right. So, what's happened to this, this robbery scheme, you're putting meaning into almost as much of it as you do in all new investments? There are two or three simple things to prevent this pagan regime from being implemented, and why should we avoid it? It is not written in the book, not in circumcision; it is not in the book, but in the work of the prophet. What is this? It's open to Murakabe, it's open to control. And the way to do that is to get a public bid...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0461par0088	Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0456par0089	Thank you. We already have the public tender agency under control, at least, and therefore under the supervision of the entire public. Generally, dear friends, those before you have been causing trouble to this people by taking refuge in reasons such as efficiency, savings in infrastructure and speed and ease and advantage in international relations and so on. There's no good in that, fellas. Murakabe is the main thing. After that, you're in such difficult situations here. Let me finish with a little story...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0462par0093	What firms?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0456par0094	Which firms... here, I'll give this to Canikli. Court report, date number...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0462par0095	What year was it made? Say it.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0456par0096	2004.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0462par0097	No, report in 2004...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0456par0098	In 2004, 29 companies.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0462par0099	The report, but that report...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0456par0100	Now, even for a moment, even in the days before you, I'm telling you that a system doesn't work here, even in the days before you. A wealthy man has passed away, called a porter, who will dig his grave, his grave, and the porter has a rope. He dug the grave, slept himself to death, passed out. One day in his dream, he's dead, and they're asking questions. Hamal said: 'My brother, I have one rope. Let me account for it in this millet world. I bought it for that money. Well... he said, did you... investigate? Isn't there a place that sells cheaper? When you gave it to him, you cut off his family's livelihood... and he woke up, more or less, with great terror, with great terror. And they brought him, and they shall bury him, and he said unto his children, Yehu, I have not been able to account for this rope, so that Allah may help him with all his wealth. That's the way to at least remove yourself, and then the orphan, and the poor, and the whole public from you, to make it clear, friends. I'd like to thank the president for his leniency. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0463par0106	Thank you, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0464par0107	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0463par0108	Mr. Buli Yıldırım, Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications, will now speak on the matter. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0464par0110	Mr. President, may I request a word from my position?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0463par0111	I promised the Minister, after the Minister.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0464par0112	It's important, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0463par0113	I understand it's important, but I promised Mr. Secretary to keep him on hold, Mr. Canikli. I'd give it to you if you wanted it first.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0464par0114	I did, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0463par0115	I didn't notice, Mr. Canikli. Here you go. Mr. President, we've heard the last article of the law proposal we're talking about. This arrangement brings a small change in the Law on Values of Adding, in the Law on Business, and in the Law on Public Contraction. In addition to the amendment to the Added Value Tax Act, it envisions exceptions during the construction of large-scale construction-development projects from the value-appropriation tax. These projects have a production period, and there's a business period. What would have happened if we hadn't made that change? He was going to pay VAT during the production period, and he was going to get that VAT back for the duration of the operation. Since the production period is much shorter than the operation, it must find funding for, for example, 1.5 quadrillion VATs in a project of 10 quadrillion years in the span of four years, to pay it to the state. It costs a lot. And the cost is still riding on this project. So, as the public gains nothing from it, it becomes more of a liability. This VAT is being abandoned by the arrangement, but the VAT during the operation continues to be collected. That's the spirit. There's no such thing as giving up any VAT income. In the second arrangement, during the construction of this project, let's say that the akamethemed, somehow stopped. In order for the work done not to go to waste, the debt must be paid in order for the project to be completed and serviced. And the Treasury will take responsibility for that under the circumstances it determines. So, why do we need this? It's in their contract, but there's no clear arrangement in our Public debt management Act. Thus, we correct this in accordance with the provisions in the contract. In other words, we are making changes to the Public Contractorship Law, which stipulates that the State Railways should employ it directly. He's already giving it to me. He's doing it directly at about 6.6 million. What are the railroads doing? He's giving it to me piece by piece. That doesn't mean anything either. There's a blockage here today because the prices of the locomotives, the prices of the trains are on it. Due to recent breakthroughs in the railways, these railway vehicles are in great need. And here to prevent the waste of time, the business is 100% your own, and the company's own, in a pocket, that's the arrangement. But let's not lose sight of one detail here, which is that when the authorities give out the work they get from the railroads, they will tender it, there's no immunity there, there's a tender in the third party. And feasibility, counseling, raising the range of project work to $691,708, four times higher than $172,927 in open bids. This is, in essence, a much more beneficial arrangement in terms of public interest. First, the ones under 172,000 were being tendered based on open competition, and the ones above were being made by the willing, the presumption, and now we've increased that limit. We're putting all of this under the border, so it's going to be a lot more competition. So, why are we doing this? When you do it amongst those who are willing, you will build a project here with objections. The 10km road project, objections are in the way, processes grow up to six months, seven months. You're stuck on the project, even though the way you do it doesn't take that long. To clear the way for this, to make the projects more comfortable... Dear MPs, I'd like to address two issues regarding the evaluations of the speakers: one of them, Kazim Kurt, our Eskişehir MP, expressed a number of issues here concerning the part of the Eskişehir Speed Train Project in Eskişehir. This project, you know, is going through the city, and we decided to take the part of the city into the ground years ago, and we started building it. But, of course, there's a obligation to work with the Metropolitan Municipality, and right now, friends are working with the Metropolitan Municipality, and they're talking about how far it's going to be underground, how it's going to be underground, how it's going to be, how the traffic is going to be there, how it's going to be owned, what it's going to be, what it's going to be. Hopefully, the Mayor of the Metropolitan will show the necessary flexibility, and the deal will be reached at once. When we serve, politics is second-guessed. Our duty is to serve, and the Railways carry out an example of this with İzmir Metropolitan Municipality and İzmir Metropolitan Municipality. We can certainly do the same in Eskişehir. The important thing is to serve the people who live there; that's how I want to be known, and that's why I needed this explanation. Of course, Mr. BDP's statements may actually be true, but you have to look at his history. Maybe our Deputy Director of the Group will be more specific about it. Taking on every bad example, based on a bad example, all of the building-and-work projects are public burdens, damage to the public, and it's not a very fair and merciful approach. We have very successful examples at the airports of Ankara Esenboğa Airport, Istanbul, Antalya, İzmir, Dalaman, Milas, now Zafer Airport, Çukurova Airport, which has always been done with the do-work-development model, which, in part, has become projects where we receive additional money on guarantees, as well as projects that have been provided for the public in a short time. So, of course, we're going to talk about the wrong practices, and we're going to take the necessary precautions, but it's not right to leave this model altogether because the world is going to this model now. The overall budget cannot provide enough resources for projects; had it been separated, it would have been done in seventy-nine years, not 6,000 kilometers divided by 2002, but 20,000 kilometers; it could not be separated. What did we do? The country needs it, we've come at it, we've divided 10,000 kilometers. Is it bad? That's pretty good. Now, the number of vehicles has increased four times, people travel more, beautiful roads are opened, people go safely, peacefully, to their homeland, meet their loved ones, trade. The airway spread all over the country, it became possible to fly all over the country, it became possible to fly at economic prices. So, dear lawmakers, these arrangements will return to our country as a service to our nation, you can be sure of that. I thank you in advance for your support, and I give you my regards. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Secretary, thank you. Mr. Canikli, please.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0465par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. Just a moment ago, some matters concerning the statement and information made by Mr. Sırrıyya Önder have to be made clear. Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, none of the tenders in Mr. Commander-in-Chief-in-Chief's model has been held during the AK PARTY administrations, all before the EC PARTY came to power. It's already been made very clear in this report. In that report you just submitted, all of these applications have resulted in $2.3 billion in public damage over the average four years the power plants have been operating. This report is dated 2004. Since there's a four-year term of business, which means this period, the study period -- that means that it's at the earliest until and before 2000. So it's about the jobs that are being put into business in 2000 and pre-dates, which are being tendered under the do-and-work model. So, none of these investments that you've been talking about, and you've just read, evaluated, about the tenders, are of any interest to our era, not to the AK PARTI administrations. Oh, based on the general results of the practices of our era, the total investments within the AK PARTI are nine billion dollars, and the surplus over guarantee is $500 million. These are the numbers that happened, they're all official, they're exact numbers. Plus, it's $7.5 billion in rent revenues from after-structure. So let alone giving extra money, conditioning, changing the contract, revenues have been transferred to a lot more than investment numbers, so up to now it's $8 billion. So it's run very efficiently during the AK PARTY period. Also, the report, which you said, which was actually being criticised, which was properly criticised, is that practices such as changing the terms of concessions, according to the demands of buyers or those who received the tender, are no longer in question, are closed by the legislation and are all done in the form of competition, open to competition. I wanted to make this information. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0466par0137	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0467par0138	Mr. President, may I make a brief statement?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0466par0139	Lütfü Türkkan has been asked to speak for the People's Movement Party Group on Articles.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0467par0140	Mr. President, you didn't hear me.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0468par0141	Mr. President, we believe that this will benefit the system, as our group speakers have already stated, concerning the VAT exemption under the value value value tax law and some investments and services in the framework of the do-and-run model. So I don't think there's any problem with that, but the fact that we don't accept some of the proposals we're offering on some of the items we're offering, I've done it, I've done it, I've done it. It reflects its philosophy here, too. While the two ministers were being held in generic discussions, I was reminded that Haci Kocabay, a member of the Justice and Development Party's General Assembly, resigned from the Justice and Development Party, claiming that there were tender corruption. In the ninth month of 2010, there will be an indictment wall -- in the ninth month, finished -- in the first month of 2011, on the 10th of the month. They don't have enough papers, and they're doing it through another firm. They've already finished the job. He says he's a member of the Justice and Development Party's General Assembly. Then he tells the governorship, the governorship, the prime minister, the president. He says the president has launched an investigation, and the governorship says he has given permission for the investigation. No results yet. I don't think it's right to blame Mr. Atalay on any matter of corruption... due to the personality of Mr. Bashir Atalay. My personal opinion is that this is someone who knows Mr. Atalay. I'm sorry our young Mr. Secretary Brother had to go through this with, like, three-and-a-half thousand liras, like 6,000 liras, 10,000 liras. A young friend of ours, a friend of ours who has a future in politics. It's hard to explain. Our Republican People's Party MP friends, who prepared the motion, both Levent Gök and Hasan Ören Bey, came up with all their residential support. Oh, please? You refused. But I know the Prime Minister's sensitivity in this matter. What happened to Hilmi Güler, and what happened to Kurdistann Yilmaz (Jacob) in the past days.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0469par0146	Who is Kurdistant Yilmaz?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0470par0147	Mr. Turkkan, please...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0468par0148	...what happened to Dengir Mir Mehmet Fırat, I also know that this will happen to the Minister next term.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0470par0149	Please, Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0471par0150	Let's not blame anyone.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0468par0151	You'll see. I'm here, you're here. Mr. Prime Minister would never allow such petty corruption, especially without his knowledge. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, here, we're talking about a set of personal interests of $3,5,000, while electricity, 8.1 percent industry, 9.2% housing users are up. We increase energy a little more every day, make it expensive. As a result, we can't produce industry every day. You can show the increase in energy prices in the world as a Fulcrum. But look, following an order from the American Ambassador in Iran, Mr. Prime Minister said, "Start sanctions on Iran, reduce oil by 20 per cent." The same day, we decided to take oil less than 20 per cent of Iran. Who are we gonna replace you with? Libyan. From Libya, where the United States of America takes democracy! What do we care? Don't say "what's the difference?" It makes a lot of difference. At least 27 cents a barrel makes a difference because of your navlu. So we're giving up electricity, we're giving up Iran because America wants it, and we're buying it from Libya, and we're buying it for 27 cents. Look, the fact that the Prime Minister was held up one day on the Iranian matter has really touched my honor as a Turkish nationalist, and I sincerely mean it. It's a non-politic business here. My friends, whose group is in parliament, know that when anyone speaks against Turkey at meetings abroad -- even against Republican People's Party friends -- how much I oppose and bear witness. We are members of the Turkish nation living in Turkey, where our Prime Minister represents us. I can never and never accept a day's wait from Iran. But it's the same Iran, Iran, that turned the missile systems towards us on the radar in the sphere, the radar in the sphere, the radar in the sphere. Think about it. We haven't had any hot contact with Iran since 1639. That's close to 400 years. Russia turned its missiles into Malatya. Russia also had a missile crisis during the 1961 Cuban Revolution. Even during those Cold Wars, we had no quarrel with Russia. But because of that radar we put in there because America wanted us to, because of the radar we put in there to protect Israel, Russia's missile system was converted into Turkey. Look, after all this, what we've come up with in foreign policy is a real freak. I say it from this stand every time. Mr. Secretary wrote his dreams ten years ago, wrote a very beautiful book, named after the Stratagegic Pit, but not ten years ago; ten years later, the world changes, balance changes. If you try to rule Turkey with your dreams ten years ago, if you try to direct Turkey's foreign policy, what happens to us will become very serious, things that will put Turkey in trouble later on. I'd like to ask you if you can imagine the points that Turkey will encounter in foreign policy after this. In Syria, the United States has found no solution but to pin hot contact on Turkey. What in the name of God do we have to do with the change of government in Syria? The Prime Minister said, "No matter what comes to me, no matter who comes to me, let the people come to whomever they want." So it's up to us to bring democracy to Syria, so why don't we take democracy to Saudi Arabia? Why is it not up to us to bring democracy to Qatar? Tomorrow -- I think -- there's going to be a Friends of Syria meeting, Kofi Annan, the Special Representative of the United Nations, is giving up. Now, the Syrian issue is slowly being tendered on Turkey. With such foreign policy, I don't think anyone should be able to put Turkey in trouble. I'd like to give you a few figures on where we came from in the economy: Turkey, according to the international welfare index that analyses trends correctly in Turkey, Turkey has been named the oldest country in Europe in terms of social well-being in the 75th place among 110 countries. In the 2008 report, they have evaluated 110 countries -- 93 per cent of the global population -- in eight different categories as they made up the 2011 list. One is education, the other is health, safety, social networking. As a result of the examinations, Norway was the 1st in an illegal national gross of $54,000, and Norway was the top of the list in 2009 and 2010. On this list, Denmark, which is the world's 1st share of the world's entrepreneurial and opportunity. Third place is Australia, with educational opportunities, with government bureaucracy and developing economy. 14 of the 20 happiest countries in the world are on the continent of Europe, 3 of them are in Asia, while Turkey is ranked 75,000th in the report, with 14,000 dollars per person in gross revenues. So there's no need for you to be comforted as the world's 16th largest economy in a country with $14,000 per person, so we're 75, so we're in the poor country here. In the economy, Turkey ranked 78th, 78th among 110 countries. In the report, inflation is more than 6 per cent and domestic savings are only 14 per cent of the illegitimate national estate, with a 14 per cent unemployment rate in the world ranking 94 per cent. Only 52 percent of the people are satisfied with their living standards in Turkey. Only 44% of Turks rely on financial institutions.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0472par0158	The numbers aren't solid.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0468par0159	While I'm being called unemployment, I'll give you a statement. Look, a fake success story is being obtained by referring to unemployment in the European Union, especially to unemployment in 23 percent of Spain. Look, we have the recipe for unemployment from people who are on their way to get a job. In Spain, every person who has reached fifteen years of age is in search of a job. We don't accept home ladies as unemployed.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0472par0160	It was like that ten years ago.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0468par0161	In Spain's numerals, the women living at home are considered unemployed. By applying numbers, by manipulating numbers, saying that unemployment in Turkey has improved may deceive us, but it does not change the truth. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I also see this in the nearest industrial city of Alexandria. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0473par0166	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Mehmet Ölturk, Hatay MP, who has asked for a personal word on the matter.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0474par0169	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on Article 8 of Law Proposal No. 194. I salute your high council. The do-and-do model is a special model of financing developed to be used to implement projects that require advanced technology or high material resources. Our country needs large-scale investments with strategic importance in development. In order to achieve a certain rate of growth and to present the investments we need in the service of our nation, we need to lighten the financial burdens on the do-and-work model. One of these financial loads is a value added tax. The added value tax is a tax paid on delivery of goods or services in the legislation, in the delivery of goods and services. The added value tax, again, is known as a tax tax tax collected from consumers from the tax collected by the taxpayers, and they pay the remaining amount in taxes, in other words, from the consumers. The VAT is reflected in the duration of the operation when companies need high financing at the tender stage because of the firm's increase in tax costs, with the VAT, which they collect from the services provided after the project is finished. With the exception of VAT, investments will also be shortened to business and return to the public by shortening the duration of the operation by the tasked company. Another problem facing the implementation of investment projects in the do-and-run model arises if the contract is terminated before the project is completed. In this case, the foreign financing loans provided by companies are not publicly owned, the investment is longer to complete. This law proposal allows public administration to assume the amount of foreign financing that corresponds to the fulfilment of investments, as well as the part of foreign financing that is not used by the administration to support large capital investments, if the contract is terminated for any reason in the implementation phase of the contract. On the other hand, the Turkish Republic's State Railways General Directorate has made several tenders over the year to repair the railway lines and supply new trains, resulting in an increase in costs for the implementation of this situation from partners in the State Railways General Directorate, which is not possible to provide goods or services from the joint partnerships of any public administration under the provisions of the State Railways General, which the firms who have won the tenders for the tender, are also under way of consulting the preresponsibility of their services in implementing goods or services, which are also under way for the state railways. For all these reasons, I think it would be best if this law and the high-speed train lines, health investments, land-road projects were presented to the service of our nation as soon as possible. With this law, I also believe that we will be the cause of good investments in Hatay, my constituency. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0475par0178	Thank you. There will be a ten-minute question-answer procedure. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0476par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. I haven't been able to answer the questions I've asked before, I repeat. Do you intend to privatise the State Railways? Do you have any work, what stage is it? What's your plan for Haydarpaşa Station? How many kilometers is the total length of the railway in Turkey? In your nine years of power, how many new roads have been built from zero, so how many miles? And finally, in what phase is the Manisa Soapcube tunnel work? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0477par0188	Thank you. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0478par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, when will the subways of Ankara, Çağören and Sincan end? When are people getting on the subway? Do you also plan to build a subway instead of a light rail system in Gaziantep? When do you think? Because Gaziantep's downtown is over 1.5 million. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0479par0193	Thank you. Mr. Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0480par0195	Mr. President, valued members, in fact, this Capitol scene that we see is what we want to live every day in the House, quiet and peaceful. After that, I'll tell you, for opposition parties here, both Kazim Kurt, Sırrıyya Önder and Lütfu Türkkan have given very beautiful, very satisfying talks. Like the Minister of Finance of Sırrıyya, Lütfü Türkkan Foreign Minister, they spoke very well; I thank them very much. Let me make a brief statement. This do-and-do has just been discussed. It is a model of artificial-business financing; poor countries are made for non-fundable countries. The government doesn't have money, the government has businessmen who make money off their backs. And I guess I'll have to ask questions, but no questions. I will ask the minister what time is it? Then there's nothing to do. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0481par0199	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0482par0201	Thank you, Mr. President. The report read by Mr. Sırrı Süzeyya Başlamir, and the conclusion that the Grand Assembly must draw from that report was not a claim of corruption to the ruling party. If that were the case, it would already be mentioned on that appropriate platform. The issue is that the government has been damaged in the do-and-do model, and the challenges of applying for this process that has resulted in damage in the past have been created today as a state report, and that -- forgotten, of course, because of the draft of the law concerning the 4+4, but here, despite the tenders taken in the past, we also create a serious VAT income for the state by providing them with a VAT exemption. Is there a calculated, calculated amount of this? With this work, how much money does the government give up on the VAT?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0481par0203	Thank you. Mr. Commander...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0483par0205	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Canikli has made some contributions and statements on my speech, but I already said it was a work presented to the House in 2004. Maybe I'll give you a new piece of information: is there any difference between the contractors, the firms that were contracting the building-and-rescue, and the firms that they gave today, during their time in power? Have those companies been re-employed? I'm just saying, as far as I'm concerned, I don't want to mention those firm names here. They have a growing, even exponentially increasing rate, only three that I know of. Now, the question here is, Mr. Canikli himself, nine billion dollars in that time. Well, you know, when you talk, we're the kind of economy that jumps our sails and makes their urgans out of my knowledge. It's just over $60 billion on the open. Why should we thank the man for $9 billion? One. Two: Is he our father's son? I mean, why would he do this to us before he makes his own money? So if the government does it, if it does it for the benefit of its own people, it's going to get a lot more efficiency than that. Three: This account cannot be measured because the profit-effective cost account cannot be done. I mean, what would it be like if the public did it? We can't do this comparison when we don't have any data, but I'll tell you this: the time of their transfer, the time of their economic life, will be given to the public as a piece of junk? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In that respect, I wish Mr. Canikli would reconsider. I also want to thank the People of the CHP.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0484par0214	Thank you, Mr. Commander. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0485par0216	Mr. Secretary, does the arrangement for the law's guarantee of treasure include the tenders already under way? Do you think that guarantees of treasure for the tenders that have been made later on have spoiled the competition in the tenders? What's the total cost of projects that will be guaranteed treasure for the past? Do you think this approach, also criticised in European Union reports, would interfere with Turkey's European Union accession process?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0486par0220	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0487par0222	Thank you, Mayor. Do you plan on bringing in a VAT exemption on bread, water, electricity, natural gas? Number two: how many people work on the State Railways? Three: What companies were the tenders given to the State Railways? Four: Has the tender been made for fast trains and cars? If it's done, what companies are it made of? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0488par0228	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0489par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we appreciate your work on divided ways. For example, between Burdur Balladiz and Cherchin, we were coming and going, but when I went this week, there were cuts in ten places, the lengths of the creek. We've seen this before on the road to Iconia, on the road to Eskişehir, on the road to Afyon. Don't you think there's a measure for these streams in a ministry with so many experts? There are billions of expenses here. There's been another expense. The road's been divided. We're going through one lane right now. Why is that? Do you intend to warn these experts? And do you have any work on the Burdur-Antalian railway? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0490par0233	Thank you. Mr. Oz... last word, then I'll give it to Mr. Canikli. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0491par0236	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I was married in 1990. Since the year I was married, I have lived in Salihli. You're saying there's been a divided road between Salihli and Kola. Between Salihli and Kula, it's still not finished from then until now. Besides, Salehli-Akhisar isn't finished. I'll be the mother-in-law, my daughter-in-law may come. These roads aren't over yet. When will it be over?
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0490par0237	Thank you. Mr. Canikli, please.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0492par0239	Thank you, Mr. President. As a friend of ours just said, the do-and-do model is a model of financing. So if these investments were not funded or not funded by this model, the $9 billion investments that we've just expressed, these investments would not have been made. Why? Because the source is obvious, so the resources are limited, but the needs are limitless. It's the basic principle. So... There's another thing: Look, from an alternative cost point of view here, there's a very serious difference between the cost of a private sector running the same business or the same company or an activity and the cost of running the state. It's a confirmed, proven, theoretical fact. When he's in the private sector, he can operate at a much lower cost. If you take it that way, certainly the alternative cost of this model is much lower than the cost of the state. So, the model is true, but as you said, there were no problems or similar problems in those investments prior to 2004, provided it's managed well. And the VAT exemption brought in by this law does not lead to any exit from the state. From a technical point of view. The reason is that in these cases, the state is the one who will pay the VAT. But it gives us an advantage. Here's the perk: the VAT payer charges about 12 per cent of the financing of the VAT, because it's long-term in the process. That's what they do to get rid of it. So -- I'm saying in the framework of a technical correction -- with this arrangement, the state will gain at least 12 percent. And when we consider the cost of borrowing, the potential, the alternative debt cost, the number will be much higher. That's why it's usually supported, no problem. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0493par0244	Mr. President, I have a small statement to make.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0494par0245	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0493par0246	He's our brother from Canician Property. So we both studied the economy from the same sources, but we collected extra Marxism. He said, "What is the difference?" The difference is the workers who died at the dam in Adana. The public wouldn't do that. If it's given to subcontractors, we'll bury our workers in the ground in order to reduce that cost. A man's life is worth more than $9 billion, in the eyes of God and in the eyes of God. That's the difference.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0494par0247	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I'm answering Mr. Akçay's question, although I've answered it before, but some of it. The answer to the question regarding the privatisation of the TCDD (TCDD) is: We have a study to restructure the TCDD (TCDD). The bottom line of this study is that just as the Ministry of Transport is making roads and opening its use to everyone, we will also remove the right of monopoly on the railways. Freight transport will be first on the railways, which are required to pay the price of the road. That's the gist of it. There is no privatisation. It's the separation and liberalisation of business and infrastructure. It's the removal of the monopoly. It's kind of like an airport example. For two years, the Council for the Protection of Historical and Cultural Beings No. 5 and 6 has devised a plan for Haydarpaşa. This plan was approved by İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality. As part of this approved plan, that area will no longer be used once Marmaray is activated, and this area of 1 million square metres will be evaluated. What's in here? There are cultural areas here, tourist areas, housing and trade sites. The parables are based on it and are made according to it. As a preserve, culture and tourism area, the protection boards envision the use of gold for Gar as well as for culture, tourism. We now have a network of 11.940 kilometers on the railways. We have 32,642 employees. The railway line we're working on right now is 3,500 kilometers, and it's still being built.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0495par0255	How much is finished? The Turkutlu-Kemalpaşa will be activated later this year, the Kars-Tiflis-Bakü will be activated at the end of 2013, at the end of İstanbul-Ankara 2013, until the end of İstanbul-Ankara. The soapcube tunnel has begun, it's being done. The project has been renovated, extended through the tunnel, and, of course, its production time has grown a little longer. We aim to complete this tunnel in four years. Double tube, 4,000 meters each. It's a double tube. After that, of course, Izmir and Manisa will now become a city. Mr. Serindağ, Çayal, Sincan, Goatören lines... we aim to finish the highway, Sincan, Sincan, at the end of 2013, and the Goatsuren-Tandoğan line in the middle of 2014, if we don't have a setback. That's what we're planning right now. We have no plans for Gaziantep. You know, on the application of municipalities, they're being evaluated, traffic values are being taken into account, and they're being planned accordingly. Right now, the planning is related to Ankara, not in other cities. We have a joint work in Izmir, which continues with its behest. The bag-Gazimir line continues to be built, and then we're going to do the Bag-Selvest Line. Mr. Erdoğdu said it was a model used by poor countries. That's not true. As you know, the 15km Köresund Bridge connecting Denmark and Sweden is a project built with a building-and-business model, a $20 billion project. There are countless examples for that. France is a very common model. In England, all of the major projects, schools, prisons, hospitals are built-in models, let alone large projects. If this model is used correctly, it's very...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0496par0261	Minister, please complete your statement. Here you go. All right. I'm afraid the others are running out of time. Mr. Özer, Mr. Commander, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Özkan and Ozil, we will answer your questions in writing. The do-and-do projects aren't being repossessed as scraps, it's a misinformation. If it's returned exactly as it was delivered in action, as in the example we live in airports. I'll buy it. Thank you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0497par0269	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Aykut said that and it's not true. One little...
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0496par0270	Mr. Erdoğdu, today we made an exception on the group agreement. We don't have that kind of procedure after the Minister's answer.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0497par0271	All right, then.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0496par0272	Thank you. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. We will now vote all of the proposal, but Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP, wants to make a statement on the basis of Article 86 of the Interior Charter. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan. The deadline is five minutes, the exceptions are over, and the deadline will not be extended.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0498par0277	Okay.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0499par0278	You will speak in favor, Mr. Hasip.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0496par0279	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0498par0280	Mr. President, I have made a promise in your favor, yes, but I'll talk about it, let's make it a April Fool's Day joke. But I'll tell you one thing, take him seriously: seven ministers are leaving the government, new ones will come from seven regions, reflect on him. Take him seriously, I'll tell you that. Why did you give me a 9% increase in electricity today, for God's sake? The Prime Minister from Iran has arrived and nine percent increase in electricity today... it's already happened before. I'd like to point out that gas increases have been happening three or four times a month, so there's been an anomaly. You go to Iran, you cut oil, you turn into Libyan oil. Russia is talking about nuclear plants, and the public plus private partnership is being considered within the framework of a separate event and the do-and-work model. In this public plus private partnership, the public will probably have a low share of partnership, and when it's low, the Court will have a share of our shares of the Court's review, performance control, whatever. I mean, how do you get on the Anatolian Jet? The Anatolian Jet is Turkish Airways, but 40 per cent shares are Turkish Airlines, and the rest are other companies. IN THE PEOPLE, IN THE PEOPLE, IN THE PEOPLE... You mean 48 percent, Mr. Secretary? INTERVIEWING, AUDIENCE AND AUDIENCE IN THE UNIVERSITY OF THE BINAL I mean, it's not 51, but... The citizens have 30,000 partners. Fifty-one percent of citizens need to be in Turkish Airlines, 51 percent in anonymous partnerships, and I'd like to bring that to your attention. Our concern is: Who pays for VAT? The government will pay. Where will the government pay for the VAT? The treasure. Where does the treasure come from? Taxes. Well, if a citizen is to spend a pen on his tax, if the number is too large, then this House must oversee it. That's our concern. Let there be control of the tenders. This is what we mean by that. When these decisions are being made, when they're being made -- for example, on the third bridge or at the Harem Project, or at the Galata Project -- they play a lot of billions of dollars in very large projects, there has to be an audit that we've postponed the financial rule -- we've even postponed the financial rule. When that happens, it doesn't work. The world isn't good either. Look, I'll tell you the truth. I mean, I don't know how you see it, but after this global crisis, we're looking at the Middle East, looking at the new design and then looking at the Prime Minister, what has the Prime Minister done lately? What countries did he go to? Whatever leaders he kissed, the end of them was not good; look, Gaddafi kissed and left; he kissed and departed; he kissed Berlusconi, and left; he kissed Bin Ali, and left.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0500par0291	They'll kiss her one day.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0498par0292	He kissed El Salih in Yemen, and went, and kissed Bezar Assad, and shook him; and the last time he kissed Obama was in Seoul, and there was an election, and this year you will see, and Obama is not bright. Now, there's a situation like this. So, be careful, you guys, the ones who got kissed, the one from the southeast, last semester's MP, didn't get here from the east, so I'm looking at old friends, none of them. You guys be careful again. Mr. Secretary promised me a Zaho-Trabzon railway project, which I have written, and I have the transcripts. Zaho-Nusaybin-Mersin had a line, and I have his transcripts. He promised me a Uludere-Longgate two years ago, and I have his transcripts. Mr. Secretary is busy right now, he won't listen, but I hope he keeps his promises.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0501par0294	Mr. Secretary will keep his promise, so make yourself at home.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0498par0295	Tomorrow's April Fool's Day. We told you, make yourself comfortable, we've got the counseling board. I told you, you can't take this away. Pray to the opposition again, tomorrow is Sunday, you have a chance to take a vacation. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-31sit04spe0502par0297	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, Kars MP Ahmet Arslan and Bursa MP Hussein Şahin and 7 MPs, as a result of a clear vote on the draft of the Law and the Amendment to Public Resignment Law: ▪ Number of votes used: 282 [[x]] Thus, the offer has been accepted and legalized. We will begin talks with the Charter of Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission and the Plan and Budget Commission reports, which ranked in the fourth place, under the Law of Public Officials Unions. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. 4- The Charter of the Law on Trade Unions and Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission and Plan and Budget Commission Reports (1/556) [[S. Number: 200]] Commission? No. It's been postponed. Law proposal for the development of forest villages; Law proposal for the development of forest villages; İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi, Ankara MP Emine Gırdar Tarhan and Yalova MP Muharrem İnce and 68 MPs; 2/B Peace Act; 2/B Minister Mehmet Şandir MP Mehmet Şandir.; Law proposal for the development of forest villages; Republican People's Party Group Chairs Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi; Ankara MP Emine Gır Tarhan and Yalova MP Muharrem İnce; 2/B Peace Act; 2/B Agreement for Foreign Affairs; Ministership of Foreign Affairs and Development; Ministership of the Turkish Parliament and Ministership of the Turkish Parliament; and Ministership of the Turkish Parliament and Ministership of the Turkish Parliament; Minister of Parliament and Ministership of Turkish Parliament and Development; Ministership of Parliaments and Ministership of Parliaments of Parliament and Development; Ministership of Turkish Parliament and Parliament of Parliament of Parliament and Parliament and Parliament of Parliament of Parliaments of Parliament and Parliament and Parliament. 5- The Law on Supporting the Developments of the Forest Villagers and Appreciating Places Outside Forest Borders in the Name of the Treasury and the Selling of Treasured Agriculture Lands along with Milliyetian Movement Party Group Deputy Mehmet Şandir. [[Number S: 198]] Commission? No. It's been postponed. In accordance with the decision taken, it is Monday (April 2nd 2012) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Monday (April 2012). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
