tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 117th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. Adıyaman MP Mohammed Murtaza Ağyük is the first non-responsored statement to address the week of the Hunger Fight. Here you go, Mr. Güyük.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, the statistics are terrible; 300 children a hour close their eyes to the world because of hunger; 800 million people sleep hungry every night; 50,000 people die of hunger and poverty every day for preventable reasons. 2.6 million children die each year due to malnutrition. We're going through a test of intimacy for an honorable, virtuous world. Many words have been spoken in the name of the salvation of mankind, and many things have been said in the name of the fight against hunger. We're going to talk like a confession; we're going to talk about statistics, we're going to touch capitalism, we're going to touch multinational corporations. Many times, we will not be among the lines; we who consume more than their physical need will not be the ones who grow proud with twelve kinds of food; we will not be the ones who eat without limiting and then run into the halls of five - star hotels to weaken. Eat, drink, and do not waste; God does not love the wasteful. The relationship between fighting hunger and poverty, greed, and dissatisfaction is ignored. Dear friends, hunger and poverty are actually a consequence. We need to examine that every starving child has something to do with our way of life, with our tables, with our wardrobes, and with all our habits. The societies that make waste economies a dynamic have no right to confess and clear their conscience over the concept of fighting hunger. We're far behind in these challenges with consumption impulses that have been spread through mass communication tools. The approaches that condition production to consumption follow a continuous role in consumption. Dear friends, in addition to democratic liberation, it is also important that a man be liberated in front of property, and it cannot even be considered a democratic liberation without freedom in the face of property. Because communities that have become dependent on certain life standards and all shapes use their preferences to maintain those standards. In fact, that's how it would be understood, even if their own state were to commit massacres to get the resources of other countries. What matters here is what this massacre will contribute to its own living standards. And then it's not hard to find excuses to ease the conscience, to cover up the stolen minaret, because they know that what they're going to object to is their own way of life and consumption. As a result, there has been an understanding that the exploitation and poverty of others are essential to the continuation of their own living standards. Dear friends, like everyone who went to Africa, I saw the desperate and meaningless look of parents in the face of the terrible death of children walking through tents in Somalia, and the pain in the eyes of starving people as they walked through Niger roads. On what they call a journey of hope, nothing will change in this world until you understand the feelings of the Somali woman who left the weakest of her children to die in order to keep her child alive. It must be realized that democratic liberation is only possible if it is granted freedom in the face of property. A future that is not conditioned by property should be intended instead of by passive generations. Let's not forget this world is all ours.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. Catcher. The second non-responsored statement belongs to Tokat, Çorum, Rashad MP Reşat True, who wants to talk about measures that should be taken after the number of citizens who died of the Crimean Congo bleeding fever in the provinces of Kastamonu. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0004par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the Crimean Congo bleeding disease. I salute the High Council. Crimea Congo's hemorrhagic fever is an animal-induced infection, such as a microbial agent called the nairovirus, which has been infected by ticks. In recent years, especially in our country, there have been many deaths due to this infection. In the Central Black Sea and Central Anatolian region, especially the province of Tokat, this disease has begun to spread throughout our country. From the moment it first came out, this disease has been found in many places for approximately 12 years, and death rates are increasing day by day. This year, about 30 of our citizens have died from this disease. For a very long period of time, such as the 12 years passed, not many distances have been taken in treatment and protection. Many ministries are responsible for fighting and treating this disease. But it's obvious that not enough coordination has been done. The Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture officials have made very different statements, and the issue is falling apart, almost in the middle. But it's more than the damage done by a terrorist organization. Innocent, innocent, struggling with bread, dying, heart burning. In the last days, the children were orphaned, and the children died in the sons of the sons, and the sons, and the sons, and the sons, and the sons, and the children, and the children, and the sons, and the children, and the children, and the children, and the children, and the children, and the children. It's been determined to stick ticks to even babies. The situation is very urgent. The Prime Minister and Minister of Health must immediately give up his C-section and speech of abortion and respond to the public's real agenda and expectations. This requires immediate measures. The government must establish a temporary research centre in the province of Tokat. An international conference is organised through this centre, and experts from all over the world, researchers, officials must be invited to our country. Based on the results of the conferences, labs should be set up in central and peripherals, and work should begin without losing time. What can be done in order for nature to be destroyed without harming the environment? Is there anything more valuable than human health? But lately, we also see that health has been lost to politics, politics. AKP officials are doing politics through health care. That's not true. The public is in a very difficult situation, including this issue. The laws of the law, which were released overnight and redoed the health system, did not solve the problems, on the contrary, increase the problems. This disease will spread further if necessary measures are not taken. In comparison to the situation 12 years ago and what happened now, it's all very clear. The people are very restless, especially the inner Anatolian region. The man who works in the field, the man who works in the barn, is also in fear and panic that he will spend his summer vacation in his hometown, his vineyard, his garden. There are many people who can't go to their village in summer because of fear of ticks. The town of Közküklı is one of them. The best place in the world, the Kuzbuk region, is almost empty in the summer, where people can't go. Let's get our people out of this nightmare. This disease can be eliminated, even the medical staff who treat patients is at risk. We can do it by taking care of the physician, the medical staff, making sacrifices. Health has no concessions, no humidity. In addition, unconscious natural exterminators are causing the tick to increase. The mountain, the stone, is being drugged unconsciously, destroying the natural enemies of the ticks. Also, anyone who neglects ticks must be identified. The global warming that is impossible to control must be taken care of. The stray animals must be taken care of. Can't you fight a disease for 12 years? Couldn't he have had a vaccine? Couldn't it have been protected by less damage than this particular disease? We await the answers to these questions. In addition, both our environment and the environment suffer in the fight against this disease. What has health, agriculture, environmental ministries done in the fight against disease, and what has not been done? We want to know if the ministers and the authorities consider themselves responsible. Therefore, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must be set up as a research commission, and the issue must be investigated in every way. After all, the tick should be taken special attention, and the authorities should do their duty in full, no excuses. I'm saying that government officials, especially the Prime Minister, should come to the public's real agenda, leaving unintended agendas for the people of our country.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0005par0045	Thank you, Mr. Right. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Denizli MP Adnan Keskin, who wants to talk about control mechanisms in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Keskin.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0006par0050	Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, democracy has universal rules. Those rules don't change according to geography, culture. It's valid in every geography, every culture. If the universal rules of democracy in one country are not run for different reasons, there is no mention of the existence of democracy in that country. Interrogation, accountability, clarity will hold over those universal rules. The tools of accountability are the control mechanisms of parliament. Parliaments use control mechanisms to control governances, the wrong savings of political power, corruption and unfair transactions are corrected, disciplined, legal action on the responsible. The results of the wish are identical when power internalizes democracy, clears the way for legal action on the responsible. In our country, control mechanisms can't be activated, accountability, accountability, accountability can't be carried out because there's a lack of power, democracy sensitivity and culture, and there's a habit of corruption. On April 19, 2012, I submitted a question motion to the Minister of Family and Social Policy, provided he responds in writing. The 14-point question motion, including irregular transactions and corruption in the ministry, has not been answered for 48 days. At the Rixos Hotel, the Minister, who made 20 people eat breakfast for 20,000 lira, preferred to remain silent. On 23/5/2012, I submitted a second question concerning the bills of cookies, dumplings and tea consumed in the minister's chief of staff. And this eight-point question motion went unanswered. In three months, bills are being put into effect on the charge of running out of 60,000 lira cookies. I believe Mr. Secretary offered the Ministry's chief of staff fruit, not nuts, but satellite fruit, which, within three months, included such large amounts of bills. Mr. Secretary, who has put the person in the position of undersecretary to be investigated for irregularities while serving in the Ministry of Health, aims to remain silent and pull a shawl on corruption. A system where there are no answers to questions, research, investigation motions are not on the agenda, and allegations of corruption are closed cannot be called democracy. Even those who have the authority to give a decree on behalf of each person and institution cannot call such a structure a democracy. It's not acceptable in society. Those who trade in faith, who declare that they will raise religious and vindictive youth, and will build a mosque next to theatres and operas, are watching for their rights to be embezzled. No matter how closed it is, the press release of private phone calls is one of the greatest evidence of the minister's insensitivity and inconsistency in this matter. Just yesterday, documents from another official's phone call appeared in the press. I offer it to the great Parliament. I invite the concerned and the authorities to be sensitive about it. The ministry in charge of the family will not justify the acquittal of the responsible, no matter how much religious stealing is done, to watch such corruption from the money set aside to be given to the poor. I hope, I wish, by making necessary attempts on this subject, we will be able to answer our motions for questions. I salute the board.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0007par0061	Thank you, Mr. Keskin. Before we go on the agenda, according to the Interior Charter, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to our lawmakers who have entered the system. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0008par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. AKP despotism doesn't stop, it's important to us in the Constitution. The young people they call the AKP are being taken into custody every day. Yesterday, medical students were taken into custody at Ankara University, Dicle University and many cities while they had finals. In what principles can eight and a half years of imprisonment be explained to Ferhat Tuzzer and Berna Yilmaz, who have set up banners as "Free Education"? They're the ones who are detained while students are being attacked with axes and rows of attacks in Firat, Marmara, Istanbul and many universities. While ruling and main opposition leaders met yesterday to discuss the Kurdish issue, Van Mayor Bekir Kaya and Siirt Mayor Selim Sadak are being taken into custody today. How is it that the elected representatives of the people will be silenced and put in prison, while the public will find their future safe, peaceful, joint? We bear witness to the arrest of honorable journalists who were resisting dictators, who were insulted by the Prime Minister. We're also witnesses to a dirty, sneaky policy in front of our eyes trying to silence peace, labor, freedom, and we're not gonna shut up.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0007par0068	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0009par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the students at the video conference of Minister of National Education Omar Dinçer to explain that they can go to freestyle applications in their disguises: sometimes they should wear different clothes. Is it a green light for the student with the headscarf in the elementary school? Fifty-eight questions prepared by the Ministry of National Education, which are curious about 4+4+4, and the answer manual says that students can also wear head coverings in schools outside of imam-gay schools, including Koran-dırim classes. As a result of all these moves, will the headgear reflect on all levels of mandatory education, or will it be limited only to Koran lessons, as expressed in the brochure? Mr. Secretary's true intentions, I think we'll know when we see the fate of the educators who warn students who wear headscarves outside the Koran class. We're also wondering if the dress code, which some environments call dress code, will change over time and digest and serve the AKP mentality. Besides, which... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0010par0077	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0011par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. With your intermediary, I'd like to announce another problem in the Çukurova region. Last week here, when we said that wheat was to be harvested, that the price of wheat had not been fixed, that there was a surge in public opinion, and that we said what needed to be done, Mr. Secretary accused us of populism. He said: "TMO is buying goods. " The purchase of TMO (TMO)'s trusts does not reform the market, does not improve the market. As soon as TMO goes into the market and raises them, they must support the farmers. At the moment, wheat prices are going below last year's price, at $660,000 last year, and this year they're going for $630,000. With this, the farmer is in great trouble -- the price of what he's producing, as well as the increase in input -- and here, the price of diesel is in the middle, the price of fertilizer is in the middle. But he's probably very pleased with himself, and he doesn't know anything about the farmer's condition, and he doesn't know anything about this kind of talk, he's making statements. TMO (TMO) must quickly enter the market at a prerequisite price. Otherwise, the wheat producers will suffer a lot of casualties.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0012par0084	Thank you, Mr Varli. Mr. Chandar...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0013par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, about four years ago, our children took the high school entrance exams and they won the Anatolian high schools, including my son. A lot of people went to and from Polish Anadolu High School just because it's called the Anatolian High School. And then one day, a few days ago, they evened up all the high schools with Anatolian high schools, with a decision made by the Ministry of National Education. To pave the way for community schools, they scored 18 points for a significant number of people in Turkey. How is this a sense of equality, how is this the idea of national education, how is this -- what they've always boasted -- a liberal understanding? We strongly condemn this practice and present these 18 points of our children to the attention of the House, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0014par0090	Thank you, Mr. Chandar. Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0015par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. On 9 June 1921, the epic battle in Inebolu had proved the patriotism of the hero Kastamon. As a result of their sacrifices, the supply roads of the Turkish army were not closed and were part of a unique victory over the enemy. That's why, Inebolu, Turkey has had the honor of being the town that was honored with its royal medal. On this occasion, I celebrate the 91st anniversary of Inebolu Day of Honor and Heroism, the Inepolis who saved this country with their lives, and all their comrades, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, with mercy and gratitude.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0016par0096	Thank you, Mr. Chanar. Mr. Trust...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0017par0099	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today one of the greatest folk poets and authors raised by the Turkish Islamic world, Abdurrahim Karakoc, born in Kahramanmarash, died. His funeral will be sent from the mosque of Hacibayram to the eternal world after the afternoon prayer. Abdurrahim Karakoc will always live in the heart with his poems and writings. I wish him God's mercy, his grieving family, the world of poets, and the people of Kahramanmarash, my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0016par0101	Thank you, Mr. Trust. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We respectfully present the opening of Parliamental Research on the grounds of the 98th and 105th Articles of the Constitution on the basis of the investigation of the causes of traffic accidents in Turkey and the necessary measures to be taken. 16/11/2011 [[Mwah.]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 6) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] The deaths caused by traffic accidents and accidents are important on our country's agenda. There are injuries and deaths that occur every year in rapid traffic accidents, which are not taken into account. According to World Health Organization reports, a million 250,000 people worldwide have died in traffic accidents. So far, the number of people who died in traffic accidents around the world is greater than the number of people who died in world wars. According to Health Ministry data, the deaths of traffic accidents in our country are ranked third among all known causes of death. 46,545 people have died in traffic accidents in our country in the last 10 years. According to official data, there were 1,104,388 traffic accidents in Turkey in 2010, 211,498 people were injured and 4,045 others were killed. This data was recorded in the first half of 2011 as 232,389 traffic accidents, 178,770 injured, 2,854 dead. Most of the accidents occurred during summer holidays and holiday holidays, as well as during those periods when fatal accidents occurred. In a statement from the Police General Directorate, 1,491 fatal and injured traffic accidents occurred throughout the country during the Eid Day holiday between 5-9 November 2011, while 3,173 people were injured and 61 were killed. Istanbul is the first in Turkey to take the lead in traffic accidents, as it is every year. There were 11,125 fatal and injured car accidents in Istanbul last year, and 16,958 were injured and 233 were killed. Ankara also follows this province in the accident of 8.893 mortal and injured cars, with 5,889 mortal and injured traffic accidents, İzmir, 4,444 fatal and injured traffic accidents, and Antalya. In the audits conducted by traffic police across Turkey, 8,715,742 traffic tickets were fined 1,137,509,424 euros in 2010. In these audits, 25,209 drivers have been transferred to the Public Prosecutor's Office, and 823,897 vehicles have been banned from traffic due to their incompatibility with traffic requirements. Although both administrative and judicial sanctions were involved, there has been no reduction in the rate of accident, death, and injury. On this occasion, we believe it is necessary to establish the Parliamentary Research Commission for further examination and prevention of the causes of traffic accidents in Turkey. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The fact that nearly half of our country's age fruit and vegetable exports are covered by citrus suggests the importance of the production of citrus for Turkey. The potential we have is not well assessed because of the wrong policies. The Constitution is 98th in order to determine and determine the measures that the producer and exporters face, particularly market problems. Your Civil Charter is 104. And 105. In accordance with the terms of the matter, we would like to submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research. [[Mersin]] [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Kayseri]] [[Kütahya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Tekirdağ]] 10) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Mughle]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 13) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] [[Elizipt]] [[Ankara]] 18) Suleiman Nevzat Do Not Fear [[Isparta]] [[Aydın]] [[Slap]] Our country is at the forefront of the production of world citrus with an average of 5 million tonnes per year. Only a third of this production can be exported, and the rest is available to the domestic market. The narcissist's contribution to our country's economy is a known fact, especially given the processing, packing, shipping and exports of products, especially our producers. 30 per cent of Turkey's production of 5 million tonnes of citrus is being raised in Mersin, and our producers, the main source of livelihood, are having serious problems. It stays in its branches to find an orange, tangerine, lemon, grapefruit, and less expensive buyers. Our producer, who can't even afford to market his product at a price that he can't afford, is suffering serious losses. The support given to the narcissist's export must be enough to compete with other countries in the foreign markets, to be announced early, in July and August, and to be given cash to the exporter. In the domestic market, the price must be stable, the difference between the price of the product and the price of the market must be closed. The problem with the narcissist's supply for the market is that the already established gardens should be dealt with through the late harvest by extending harvest times and by encouraging farmers who store crops to be supported on a product basis or on interest-free loans. The cost of gardening and maintenance is high in the production of citrus. The newly planted citrus trees bear fruit for 5 to 6 years, and the product cannot be replaced for 15 to 20 years. It will play a big role in lowering entry prices in order for the manufacturer to get the income he deserves. Technological advances for quality and health products are not closely monitored. The lack of incentive for the establishment of modern-day facilities that will allow the product to be processed, harms and unlicensed drugs, also disrupt the export of the narcissist. Clearly, a well-functioning marketing organisation is needed to increase exports. To do so, state institutions must take the lead. Therefore, the Constitution is 98th in order to improve competitiveness in international markets in order to determine the problems of narcissistic producers and the shortcomings of export policy related to these products. The Civil Charter is 104 and 105. Parliamentary Research is required under the provisions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our constitution is 56. As stated in the article, every person living in our country has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment. It is also one of the main tasks of the state to improve human health and quality of life. The management of health care and services are seen to be deepening the current problems with administrative and political practices conducted on the production process. In order to establish measures, solution proposals and necessary policies, the Constitution is 98. And 104th of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter. And 105. In accordance with the terms of the matter, we would like to ask that the House Investigations be opened. [[Mersin]] [[Kayseri]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[Kütahya]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] 8) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Adana]] [[Mughle]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Aydın]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Slap]] [[Adana]] [[Elizipt]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] 20) Suleiman Nevzat Do Not Fear [[Isparta]] As of today, in countries with both developed economies and medium and backward economic levels, it is not possible to talk about an ideal and general health system that has been compromised. Because of increasing communication opportunities, health care is growing, such as the growing population of the city, health problems, in a period of awareness that citizens who are aware of more and have more expectations. It is the principle of the social state to provide social health care by providing continued development and regeneration, in accordance with the needs of public health and treatment, in accordance with the needs of modern life, in respect of patient rights, efficient, quality and equal health care. Since healthcare education, infrastructure investment and control have not been done enough so far, we face a lot of health problems, and, naturally, these costs are reflected in economic costs. First of all, no matter what health system is applied, it will never succeed, unless it changes the condition of the people's lives in a positive way and improves them into health-producing environments that produce disease. The country's healthcare policy has been aimed at providing a basic transformation and change in the financing and presentation of health care, which has been under way of privatisation since 2003, with more and more withdrawal from the state's health care financing. As a result of these policies, a payment system has been introduced based on more medical transactions and increasing return capital revenues. In education and research hospitals, medical schools, doctors and other health workers have been given "Performance Systems" in the sense that they will receive points in exchange for medical procedures and that the fees they will receive will be determined in exchange for those scores. In light of its contribution, contractual work, unsecured labour force, the rise of quantity in health care, financial problems, the use of public resources, the GGO construction, global budgetation, mandatory financial insurance aspects, medical errors have not been reduced, and the patient's rights have been affected. As violence towards the physician can be heightened, the right to health care has been forced, the protection of professional values and the implementation of ethical principles have become difficult. With the goal of quick access to health care, our health workers have been asked to perform high, to keep the public's level of satisfaction at the top. Health workers' trusts, professional commitments and motivations have decreased due to problems in the system. At a time when the need for change was ignored, health workers under pressure from current problems were faced with a law that fundamentally changed the structure of the organization. Problems with the presentation of health care continue, and the performance system's practices that increase injustice among employees are unresolved. The right demand of health workers at the point of fair determination of return capital ceiling rates has been ignored, while administrators have been given positive discrimination to physicians. On the other hand, instead of macro-level plans in health care and health training, providing foreign physicians and foreign nurses with employment will pose a separate problem. The provision violates the constitutional decree that public services, such as health, will be carried out by civil servants and the criteria set by law. In order to meet the need for health employment, a national policy to improve the potential of health education should be set up, and instead of improper measures, such as foreign physicians and nurses, it should be intended to evaluate our young labor resources, which the whole world looks at with envy. The policies of the health system will never be enough unless the basic problems that directly affect the future, the efficiency and sustainability of health care are resolved. If we don't want to pay the price for aggravated problems in order to solve problems, we need to make realistic policies, not forget that the way to produce health is through healthy decisions. In this regard, parliamentary research must be opened within the TBM in order to create measures, solution proposals and necessary policies that will be taken against problems by the participation of all parties in the entity. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, we move to the part of the agenda with the Bill of Laws and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume our talks with the Constitutional Commission Report and with the proposals for amendments to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Tourist Guidance Professional Law Bill and the Publicity, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission Report, which is ranked in the 2nd place. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 257 rows. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Nüğde MP Doğan Günat will speak on the whole bill. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Dawn.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0018par0285	Thank you. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, based on the general draft of Tourist Guidance Act 257 rows under discussion. The tourist guidance bill is an arrangement that tourist guides have been waiting for for nearly eight years. This arrangement was the most important goal of guidance and vocational organisations. It has been a great joy for guides and tourism sectors, for which I have been a member of this bill, through the Commission for Development, Transport and Tourism and its accession to the General Assembly. A few of our amendment proposals as Republican People's Party spokesman on draft articles were unanimous in the commission. In order to contribute to tourist guides, we did not do what had to be done, but what was right and wrong, except for the positive thinking and two clauses in view at the Commission meeting. (x) 257 S. Numbered Bazmak is included in the report. Dear MPs, guidance is a respectable profession that bridges cultures. The history of guidance in our country dates back to the late 19th century. For more than 50 years, guide organisations have been actively involved in the development of the country's tourism, continuing in the areas of service education, expertise, and improving the quality of the services provided by tourist guides. The first regulation on tourist guidance was published on September 3, 1971 and under the name Translation Guide Courses No. 13945 and the Translation Guide Rule. It was changed on March 21, 1974, and was renamed Professional Tourist Guidance Management, with some changes in 1981 and 83 years. On July 2, 1986, it was published in the Official Gazette No. 19152, under the Constitution of Professional Tourist Guidance, published on November 25, 2005, and under the new Rule of Professional Tourist Guidance in the Official Gazette 16004. Today, along with the Ministry's courses, tourist guides are trained by universities with two years of preliminary licenses and four years of licensing programmes. Tourism has become increasingly important to Turkey over the years because of its cultural and natural wealth. This bill will reach the desired conclusion years later by making legal arrangements for guides who play an important role in tourism. The number of certified professional tourist guides registered to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism is now more than 10,000. The Professional Tourist Guidance Law is crucial to the country's promotion and tourism. We have proposed to the Commission to change the union of the 2nd article of the bill (b) and the agreements (f) in the jokes, and we are renegotiating our proposal with the General Assembly on the correction of these two articles. We expect the party groups, especially the government, to support the exchange of these substances. Another item that we want corrected in this bill is the (1)th and (2)th of the 8th article. In the article (1) of Article 8, we stated in the Commission that only one guided room union should be established in our country. This joke, which allows more than one professional union of public institutions and occupational institutions to be established, has the possibility of losing the ability to be the necessary unity in vocational and solution proposals, after first, when units vary in practice. Once again, we say that a professional union, which does not represent all guides, which is represented by only a number of guides piece by piece, by different units, cannot continue to function actively and efficiently. The formation of multiple chambers across the country will cause a continuous search for consensus, making institutions awkward. Another motion we made in the same article (2) was that there could be no more than one room in the same province. The goal of the establishment of vocational rooms is to bring together those who conduct the profession and address professional problems and ensure that the occupational work is conducted in the best way possible by those with professional backgrounds. Allowing more than one public institutional profession to be established in one province would be contrary to the purpose of bringing together those who practice it. The ability to discuss professional problems and find solutions in a healthy manner will also be eliminated by non-uniform counselors. In addition, when vocational rooms gradually enter into different applications, it will cause confusion of information among members. This will prevent vocational rooms from spending all their energy on professional problems and solutions. As the Republican People's Party, we think it's more appropriate to have a room in each province and a vocational room throughout Turkey. Dear lawmakers, our country has great potential for tourism in every geography, sea, mountain, natural lakes, natural beauty and cultural presence. However, we don't exactly give away the rights of the tourism industry. Given our country's location in the geographical sphere, the proximity of distance to developed countries, it offers tourists the advantage of cheap transportation. Unfortunately, tourism in Turkey was not perceived as a state policy except in the 80s. Tourism potentials in all parts of Turkey have not been uncovered. Turkey also has great potential in skiing sports and winter tourism. For the most active use of this potential, new and alternative ski resorts must be made immediately. In order for winter tourism to develop, the parallel ski sport also needs to develop. There is a need for accurate direction and investment in this matter. The Bolkar Mountains are our most suitable mountain for winter tourism. It's our most important mountain to invest in, as well as the Alpine discipline, winter Olympics, tour skis and variety of thermals. In the interest of foreign tourists in our country's winter tourism, apart from Erzurum and Ercias, there have been no significant investments, and this important branch of tourism has been neglected. One of the most important problems of skiing sports and winter tourism is that there are no regulations, written text and laws for the management of ski sports and winter tourism in the mountains. The ski resort administration in each province is doing its own thing. This deficiency must be repaired at once. In addition, companies with special products such as canyons, mountain bikes, rafting, trekking, adventure tours do not participate in fairs and cannot make tour connections. These small companies need to be encouraged to promote and invest in capital to the bottom. Dear friends, our Minister of Culture and Tourism, in a statement, says that at least 20 of the best 100 hotels in the world's standards were chosen from Turkey. Yes, Mr. Secretary may be right. It is true that facilities in tourism are comfortable, quality of service, but tourists and tour operators bring to our country benefit from the system, including everything. Some companies abroad are selling vacations to their employees, including plane tickets in Turkey, including everything. This system allows tourists not to spend on a glass of water in our country, not to leave vacation villages or hotels where they enter, and it causes major damage to the tourism sector. As a solution, hotels must be regulated once a week to be rescinded from their system, including everything. This will enable tourists to move to city centers, so that hotel employees will receive one day a week and contribute economically to the daily trade movement of small tradesmen and guides in that area. It's an enormous amount of cost for our own citizens to receive services from 20 of the best hotels the Minister has ever talked about in resort villages. Members of parliament, the most difficult issue for local travel agencies in the tourism sector is insurance, because there is no insurance company in Turkey to cover tourists, to cover travel. Part-insurance companies also keep the scope of the tour very narrow. For this, travel insurance legislation requires regulation. Another major problem in the tourism industry is that tourists from some countries are known to be working as illegal workers in our country. We must not ignore that we record these people as tourists. AS TÜİK calculates tourism revenues, for example, an American tourist coming to our country costs 1,500 dollars, a French tourist costs a thousand dollars, an English tourist spends 500 dollars, an Azerbaijan tourist spends $500. He collects the average and hits the number of tourists coming in. Around 2.5-3 million people who have arrived in Turkey have come as tourists and are also known to work as illegal workers in our country. The revenues of these illegal workers are also calculated as tourism revenues. There's no way to figure out the amount that 2.5 or 3 million people take from our country off the record as income. It's a hard fact to ignore how many foreign currency these illegal workers have taken back to their country off the books. Dear lawmakers, as you know, most of the tourism revenues go to our six provinces. These are the provinces of Antalya, İstanbul, İzmir, Aydın, Muğla, Nevşehir. Tourism needs to be developed, diversified and spread across the country. In our country, the number of mountain, nature, termking, adventure and alternative tours is increasing day by day. This also gives rise to different needs in the field of employment. The Mountain of Pain, the Bolkar Mountains, the Fugitive Mountains, Aladağs, Likya Road Tours, rafting tours, alternative and adventure tours are not possible for current tourist guides. Trekking consists of field guides and mountain guides who have been tested by various institutions, who do not speak foreign languages, who have nothing to do with tourism. In the areas I've just stated, regulations and examinations must be set up as soon as possible to meet the needs of the sector. In order to provide a more qualified service in these kinds of sectors, the ministry of culture and tourism and the ministry of control are inevitably required to have authority, control, and control. Many universities have opened the English tourist guidance department. However, the guidance department has not been opened in French, German, Italian, Spanish and other languages. It is imperative that the Ministry of Culture and Tourism connect with the NGO to resolve this problem and open chapters in other languages. Dear lawmakers, in our country, it's become cruel for yacht operators to buy a yacht business document. The torture of the citizen to receive this document begins at Mersin Radio Directorate, Antalya is turning into persecution in Fethiye, and Ankara ends in torture. And in this region, between Mersin-Antalia, even though Silifke and Anamur have great tourist potential in our counties, these areas have been forgotten. The problem with transportation is annoying. The long-term road construction between Mersin-Antalia must be completed immediately. This will contribute to coastal and cultural tourism, opening a new route along the line of Antalya, Anamur, Mersin, Adana, Hatay, Şanliurfa. Turkish Airlines must organise additional flights to the capitals of countries such as London, Paris, Barcelona, Frankfurt, Milan, between July 10th and September 1st. In the meantime, it is important to remember that you also took away the rights of Turkish Airlines workers to strike. The government was not satisfied with this, but it fired 305 people with a six-second cell phone message. We condemn the ruthlessness and unconscionableness of our country's Turkish Airways workers, who have made great contributions to the tourism and transportation sector day and night. Launched workers must be taken back immediately. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have recently been budgeted by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism by inventing bogus festivals. The budget should not be set aside for such activities, which have been eaten and eaten by rice, which have been stolen by reeds, which have no cultural activity and no contribution to the industry. Rich in culture and tourism, we have nothing to say or even thank the municipalities who hold festivals in the framework that will contribute to our country's social life. However, these festivals, organised by municipalities, have recently become controversial according to what criteria. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the Tourist Guidance Legislature, will give the tourism industry a comfortable breath, generally. I look forward to your support for the motions that the Republican People's Party is particularly concerned with to solve all the problems of the tourism sector. I think this bill is positive, I wish the tourism sector well, and I thank the Minister on behalf of my sector, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0019par0321	Thank you, Mr. Dawn. İstanbul MP Durmiş Ali Torlak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Torlak.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0020par0325	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the overall bill of the Tourist Guidance Professional Law, which is being discussed. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, this bill that we've been discussing is a bill of professional law that has given local and foreign tourists detailed information about Turkey's historical, cultural, natural and other features, helping tourists to solve their problems, which has been fighting for years. When we look at the overall bill of the law, the corporate personality of the tourist guides is glad to have a private professional room and unity, but when we look at the essence of the bill, there are many shortcomings and articles that contradict the Constitution. The bill clearly shows that the tourist guides' union is intended to be a ministry-based institution, not as a professional union. It is understood that it is intended for the establishment of an unauthorized professional union to operate fully in the ministry's monopoly. Occupational rooms have a public corporate personality, which is the administrative guardianship of central authority without the hierarchy of central authority. Attempting to enter the central authority's chain of command is not in line with the understanding of the state of law, nor is it a right and ethical approach. However, the functioning and management of vocational institutions is clearly organised in Article 135 ▪ of the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has also acknowledged in many decisions that public institutional trade institutions are also a public service, a part of the administration, and are established on the basis of governance. In this case, there are also violations of the Constitution, which are contrary to the nature, spirit, and functioning of professional rooms, which will bring many problems in the future. When we look at the overall bill, the biggest problem is that the powers given to the ministry are too high. The Ministry's approval is being sought on all matters, and any documents are expected by the Ministry. This would be contrary to the essence of having a corporate personality, but would lead to the total politicalisation of the rooms to be built. When you examine the laws and regulations of other public institutional institutions, for example, it is seen that when you examine Article 9 of the Law on Law, you are given a legal license for adoption by the relevant bar. In other professions, it is not right for the Ministry of Culture and Tourism to be granted a vocational license given by the relevant room or union. Therefore, either those professional laws are wrong or this bill is wrong. For this reason, it is important that the license given to tourist guides who carry the terms of employment be given by the relevant professional organisation, facilitating their secular activities under Article 135 of the Constitution. In addition, the application must be applied directly to vocational institutions, but the application to the ministry will lead to the decision-making of the ministry over its control authority. This would be contrary to the spirit of the authority of public institutional institutions, which would also increase bureaucratic procedures. On the other hand, the jurisdictions of the rooms will be narrowed down. It is wrong for those who have been in the bill for eight consecutive years to become active tourist guides to an active tourist guide. The two stages of this test would be more accurate, and the content of the written examination would be done by public institutions or organisations that have clearly mastered the symptoms. However, it would be more accurate if the interview was conducted by the Union, as foreign language or practical information, one of the most important criteria in its profession. The other mistakes we see and need to correct in the bill are the establishment of more than one public institutional union. Dear lawmakers, this arrangement will bring with it many problems and dualities in the sector. Just as the Bar Association and the bar in each province are the only ones in the region, it is important for the public benefit that the tourist guides' association and the tourist guides' rooms in the provinces are the only ones. Because the formation of more than one room and more than one unit in the provinces is contrary to the essence of being a public corporate entity, but will also cause a lot of confusion in the practice. This legal arrangement, which allows multiple rooms to be established in the same province and to form more than one union across the country, will lead to the establishment of powerless professional organisations, non-ineffective and non-representing troops, the awkwardness of decision making and implementation, the dissonance and political dissolution of profession members. This will also lead to the removal of professional unity and solidarity, which is the goal of professional organisations, and the development of the profession, and will bring with it many problems in practice. Dear lawmakers, the primary goal of the establishment of vocational rooms is to come together to address the professional problems of those who practice the relevant profession and to ensure that the occupational work is carried out in the best way possible by those who have a professional capacity. On the one hand, the bill introduces unorganised tourist guides to legal legislation, while on the other hand, the ability to discuss and resolve their professional problems in a healthy environment, as they have not been able to have a professional law for years. This will prevent tourist guides from spending all the energy of their vocational rooms and union on professional problems and solutions. On the other hand, there will be divisions among guides based on ideological values and languages. At the same time, it is possible that agents with intense work potential tend to direct their contacts to specific rooms. This will result in a total loss of function, which will allow the vocational rooms to act according to the demands of agencies, not guides. Therefore, the creation of a structure similar to the structure of other professional union and rooms is important for the purpose of the bill and for the public benefit. Dear lawmakers, the tourist guide is the one who welcomes the tourist group to our country at the airport, takes it on a show, eventually drops the group back at the airport. Although the guide's work is simplified in narrow patterns, it's actually one of the lifebloods of the tourism industry. This profession, which was performed in the early years of the Republic by minorities who speak foreign languages, has become a sectoral branch that needs to be focused on as a professional profession today. For this, the tourism industry and tourists who come to our country have high expectations of guides. Thus, the tourist guide has become one of the indispensable dynamics of the tourism industry. In particular, the role of tourist guides is irrefutable when customers who are earned by various efforts and expenses can become regular customers. It is possible to make a five-star service more qualified with a tourist guide, and it is possible to reduce it to a very inferior level. For this reason, a tourist guide is a mirror for both national promotion and tourism businesses. Tourists will be the permanent guest of the country, as well as they can see good things in the mirror. As tourism gains weight in the country's economy, the budget for promotion is also increasing yearly, and it is clear that this budget for cross-border promotion will bring more tourists to the country. However, the promotion has a second leg, which includes promotional activities after the potential demand has been turned into a de facto demand. In a face-to-face introduction to the new tourist, no doubt, all who serve in the field of tourism have an obligation of their own. The professional tourist guide, who is the volunteer ambassador to represent our country, should not be forgotten how active it can be in one-on-one publicity. Therefore, professional tourist guides are strategically important for both the country's promotion and tourism businesses and tourist businesses. Hence, those who practice this profession have to have some individual characteristics, including leadership, conduct, patience, and understanding, determination, and professional ethics. Dear lawmakers, tourist guidance is one of the professions seen as important to tourism for very different purposes. First of all, every tourist guide needs to have some leadership qualities. Because guides lead tourist groups and guide them through the tour. On the other hand, since they communicate with local communities and tourist groups, it is also important for social benefits. Therefore, the successful work of tourist guides is vital for the positive development of the tourism industry. In this respect, it is vital for our country, which is constantly seeking to increase its share in the world tourism market, to legislate the Tourist Guidance Code, which is considered one of the most important economic factors in the development of this sector. In this scope, the shortcomings involved in the current bill are also essential, sensitive, to be immediately corrected by regulations. With the application regulations to be adopted, the working system of the guidance profession must also be determined by guides' rights and obligations and social security and to prevent negatives from happening in the first place. Dear lawmakers, there is not only sea tourism in our country. Turkey is among the world's leading countries in terms of historical wealth and natural beauty. Istanbul is our most important province with these features. Despite all these advantages, history and nature have not benefited enough in tourism than in Istanbul, where culture and different social riches are intertwined. In this context, the first thing that comes to mind is that historical and cultural structures, historical and cultural tissue, which are the mirrors of Istanbul, are slowly disappearing. It is clear how historical and cultural tissue was massacred in Istanbul, and how the High Council of Monuments remained silent in the district of Fatih, where a concrete building was built on an interior vault in Balat, a historical and cultural treasure, was also licensed by the municipality. The most important attractions of our country are Istanbul, Antalya, and İzmir, no doubt, when the esteemed MPs are associated with the tourist and tourism. Over the years, the number and height of ships that came to Istanbul for a tourist trip increased steadily, while the port capacity for these ships remained the same. As a result, there is a problem with the docking area of ships coming to Istanbul. Since some ships at times cannot find a place to tie up on the dock, they are unable to dock, anchored in the open, and are transported to the port by passenger boats. What passengers and companies don't want is a huge risk that passengers will be brought down and transported to open-line ships and passenger boats. However, these ships anchored in the open have negative effects on both local and throat traffic. In Istanbul, where tourism potential is growing day after day, the ships need high-capacity, modern croissant ports to maintain that increase. Therefore, in order to ensure that tourists along with Istanbul will stay longer in tourist areas along the other coastline and increase the number of qualified tourists arriving, the substructures for high potential cross-country passenger transport must be quickly completed and open to tourism. It is also important to improve mega marinas that are rapidly developing in the marine tourism sector. It will also increase Turkish tourism's share of yacht tourism, especially in Istanbul, Antalya and İzmir, to rehabilitate and buy mega yachts. In addition to yachting ports, the potential for over two hundred fishing shelters in our country should also be considered. The improvement of fishing shelters within a certain sea distance will make significant progress in the sector, providing the necessary service for yacht tourism. Dear lawmakers, our country has a huge advantage in tourism, both in its geographical position and climate and in its natural resources. However, this advantage must also be integrated into the sense of professionalism, which we feel lack in tourism policies. Turkey is among the most visitors in the past 15 years because of its geographical and natural nature, which allows tourism to be diversified. Because of the dynamic, young population presence, and sociocultural properties that have no problem adapting to tourism, the East-Western Synthesis features that attract tourists make our country a curious tourist destination. The fact that it is close to the main market districts because of its geographical location is one of the other factors that advantageise Turkish tourism from new and better quality facilities, such as carpet, leather, congestion, and jewelry. However, other than these features, there are some disadvantages that affect Turkish tourism and sustainability. Although alternative tourism opportunities have increased, tourism in Turkey is mostly concentrated in the Mediterranean and Aegean coastal areas. Excessive condensation in these areas, coastal and surrounding areas has had a negative impact on urbanization and construction regional tourism and the reputation of our country. Therefore, tourists who come to our country are overly sensitive to the environment at the top of Turkey's tourism problems. Problems such as increased multi-story construction on our country's coastline, urbanization of tourist destinations, destruction of agricultural sites, and threats of solid and liquid waste to the environment are at the head of our country's tourism problems for more facilities, such as in Bodrum, Marmaris and Kuşada. Thus, distorted urbanization, travel problems in tourism areas, infrastructure problems and pollution have a negative impression of tourists coming to our country, and in the middle and long term tourism has a negative effect. However, the lack of response to the need for rapid demand increases in infrastructure, quality of service and support sectors, irregular and unsupervised commercial activities, the problems caused by our country's tourism and product quality. On the other hand, problems with reservations, bad business, especially the contradictions with tourists, have a negative effect on tourism. In addition, the failure to engage in strategic marketing management, the lack of interest in local governments and the public's tourism sector, shows that there is no effective planning policy in our country. Thus, the lack of infrastructure and planning, which are also very interested in investments in the tourism sector, is intimidating local and foreign investors, missing investments in the sector. In this scope, public-private sector co-operation must be developed, the state's co-ordinator and private sector should be implemented, the incentives for the government to support the private sector in promotion as financing, and the development of different approaches to loans. With this feeling and thought, I salute your grand delegation, the guidance of tourists, to our country's tourism, and to the tourist guidance community that has been waiting for this law for years.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0021par0352	Thank you, Mr. Torlak. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0022par0355	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the opinion of the Peace and Democracy Party on the Bill of the Law on the guidance of tourists in 257 rows. I salute you all. Mr. President, due to the value of lawmakers, Turkey's geopolitical position, its emergence as a country where three heavenly religions meet, however, it has very clean beaches and coves according to its competitors, and is a tourist paradise due to the characteristics of the four seasons together. Turkey's use of these values for tourism will play a crucial role in resolving our country's unemployment problem. The basic components of our country's tourism potential are its natural, cultural and historical values. As long as these values can be preserved in the long run, our share of the international tourism market will continue to grow rapidly. This is especially necessary for the use of land and infrastructure decisions in tourism regions to be made correctly by both local and central governments. Infrastructures over-accessive strains will bring with them the danger of destroying natural values. In the process of making these decisions, the need for tourism to be used in maintaining its natural, cultural and historical values must be well understood. Mr. President, good lawmakers, one of the things that needs to be specified when talking about tourism is the necessity of ecological life. Ecological life can be viewed as the development of environmentally sensitive life models. The focus of tourism activities is the development of an ecologically sensitive environmental consciousness and the failure to destroy the environment and natural life in its operation. Today, many of Turkey's tourism regions are becoming increasingly lifeless, and our people from time to time complain about the slaughter of the environment under the name of tourism. For us, ecological life is the dynamic of man's ability to create his own life against the neoliberal attacks of the capitalist system, the survival of nature, human and living dialects. Of course, environmental and environmental problems are the first to be considered ecology. Part of this approach is true, but it remains incomplete enough to understand the ecological approach. Ecological life is literally anti-industrialism. The industrial approach is the practice of approaching people, society, nature, all kinds of living and lifeless beings through profit. In industrial understanding, streams are for profit, fields are for organic and more crops, cities are for Rant. In addition, nature presents human drama as human drama by means of human profit. Turkey, along with many regions, has tourist areas, and perhaps better historical areas that can be lived in better terms. As these areas spread to all areas of Turkey, the South and East Anatolian region in particular is very large in the Mesopotamian region. Mesopotamia is the cradle of human history. The first transition to agricultural life, the first artistic structures were made in this area. Thus, he inherited a very valuable history within this region, and what was left of it to us. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the most important elements of tourism activities is the profession of tourist guidance. Sadly, the general and public benefit of tourist guidance to promote our country has not been observed so far. The fact that professional demands, based on the sector's near-quarters experience, are still inoperable can be viewed as a reflection of an increasingly common causality culture in all the layers of society. The Association of Tourist Guides, founded on 12 September 1998, was established at a time in representing the sector as well as at the point of professional achievements, but the failure of problems and the failure of internal conflicts have always begun to resolve in unification, as in weak professional organisation. The ministry continues its former centralist order, citing this professional organisational mess. In this context, the bill is far from solving the problems of tourism guides. The bill states that tourist guides should be registered in a room, but has raised concerns that rooms that will be forced to operate in the Ministry's monopoly will become political. The narrowing of the jurisdictional areas of the rooms also raises concerns about politicalisation. In order to reduce these concerns, accession registers in the room should be made by the Association of Tourist Guides, not by the Ministry. Since the Union will already submit its membership to the relevant ministry, the problem will be resolved. In order to be a tourist guide, tests and interviews must be conducted by the rooms. The content of this test must be made clear, and after this stage, interviews must be conducted by qualified rooms. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism should be able to transfer authority to the Union as he sees fit. The holder of vocational experience and savings with the transfer of authority will receive advice and approval from the Ministry, which will provide effective and rapid functioning in the work of the professional institution, which will submit the necessary issues to the Ministry. Again, the third article of the draft law is estimated to be the Ministry's decision to remove it from the profession in (3). However, the removal should be carried out with unity and Ministry approval, as it is in the profession. We believe that the head of the bill, as well as the head of the regional chamber, should be part of the Union's General Assembly as delegates. Mr. President, I'm one of those who is expecting a truly democratic, civil constitution that guarantees the rights of people and groups of faith in the common country in our country, where the debates of the Constitution are intense. Let's not forget that's what we're really doing here. A civil, democratic, liberal, egalitarian constitution; this is the common demand of Kurds and other peoples and religious groups living in Turkey today. As the Peace and Democracy Party, we too are conducting the politics of creating a Turkey under the common home of this country, where any people and all parties can express themselves freely. Knowing that Turkey's fundamental problem is the Kurdish problem, our main policy is to try to be the voice of all the oppressed in Turkey, all the others. Our policy is not to go through red lines and monopolitic politics. If we're going to talk about red lines, we have to talk about our party's human sensibilities. Any policy that ignores the dignity of humanity will be caught in our red line. We're facing a policy that is not shaped on universal human rights-based politics, which ignores people and belief groups living in this geography, and we're going to continue to be against it. It is not possible for a constitution to become a new constitution that does not accept people's different identities, their culture, that does not embrace all differences, that does not include the definition of constitutional citizenship, that does not accept education in the native language, that does not guarantee freedom of organisation. Likewise, a constitution that does not guarantee the right of headscarves to work will not be possible for the public to accept the right of faith, the right of employees, the right of Jazidi and other cultures. With that context, I think we should be hopeful of new constitutional studies. We all need a truly democratic, egalitarian, participatory, liberal constitution that doesn't contain red lines. This country has suffered more from the Constitution of September 12th on freedoms and basic rights, and the sacrifices from the Constitution are still under way. A constitution that defends freedoms to the end should not be ours to undo all freedoms that were said in the previous sentence. The most important issue in constitutional debates is to realize that the constitution is not a magic wand. What matters here is the change of minds. The state needs to know that it plays a role in mental transformations in a way that suits a democratic legal state. As we all know, Britain, for example, does not have a written constitution, but is governed by an advanced democracy, acting in accordance with the modern criteria for basic rights and freedoms. From this point of view, all obstacles to the work of the constitution, which is also expected to involve a revolution of mentality, must be removed and freedoms must be opened. Many journalists, intellectuals and students continue to be arrested in our country. These people are kept inside because they're just expressing their opinion, because they're conducting opposition politics on the democratic ground. In the same way, over 7,000 of our political citizens are under arrest and waiting for the day when they will be free. While detention should be an exception, it is not understandable that thousands of prisoners are being held in prison, that prisons are being held far above their capacity for prisoners and prisoners. In this context, we are concerned that the promising soul of the new constitutional work will be lost if there is no road cleaning on basic rights and freedoms. Let's all make a sincere contribution to a truly civil, democratic, contributing and liberal constitutional process that respects universal human rights and remove all obstacles to the process of construction and build our future together. Dear lawmakers, Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek met with the group's deputy leaders of opposition parties in the past few weeks and gave positive signals about the release of arrested MPs. We had an expectation that our colleagues would come to the House and start their work. The group's deputy chairman said the talks were positive, but not more than a few weeks later, Deputy Prime Minister Hussein Çelik said it was a matter of justice. In the case of a change in the way the parties suggested, it has been concluded that this could have very different and negative legal consequences, and that such an arrangement could be highly available for abuse. However, we know that the members of the group have been compromised in their proposed arrangement, that they're trying to avoid negative legal consequences, that they're being extremely well-intentioned. The question is, what do you propose if you don't approve of opposition parties' proposals? What do you have to do? The problem with arrested MPs is the problem with the opposition. It's not the right approach. These MPs are Turkey's deputies. The people who voted for them are citizens of this country, and this issue is the problem of the government that rules this country as well as the opposition parties. Clearly, Mr. Speaker's good intentions have been in vain for the second time. Now everyone knows it's not a simple matter of judgment, it's a political issue, and politics has to be resolved. In a country where the judicial system works so late, arrested MPs will be left at the end of the legislature? Is there a point in the MIT crisis when it's clear that even Mr. Prime Minister doesn't trust the judiciary, when we rely on the judiciary for the arrested MPs, to wait for the day when the judge will decide? If the judiciary had been trusted, the Prime Minister, who was expected to act on the non-violent order of the law, not in one night, would have to hand over the MIT personnel to the judiciary. Where in the world is the term "reputee "? With thousands of votes from the public, why are the MPs still inside who need to come to the House and work? HDP MP Faysal Sarıyıldız and Mardin MP Gülser Yıldırım were recently exposed to poisoning from the food provided by the prison. In a prison with three times as many prisoners and prisoners as its capacity, our MPs have become victims of the political accounts that are going on outside. As I said earlier, the situation of the arrested MPs is a political issue and is a matter that must be resolved under the roof of parliament. No one who speaks on this subject aims to interfere with the work of the judiciary. Our joint demand for the arrested MPs is that despite the election dam, which is a bad legacy of September 12th, the last general elections of representation reflect the will of the people to the Parliament in full. In parliamentary systems, MPs are elected by the will of the people. In this context, it is not the will of the people, but the will of the people, who are now in prison, who have won the favor of the people by receiving hundreds of thousands of votes. The European Court of Human Rights, which says that freedom restrictions should not be arbitrary, is indicative of the fact that the issue of arrested MPs has become a gangrene. The ECHR hearings suggest that an act that violates individual freedom should first be in harmony with internal law, but that it is not enough alone, that this action should be in accordance with the contract. We believe that Turkey's international contract is above internal law and that contract decisions must be implemented by internal law. It must not be forgotten that a citizen who is on the side of the contract is obliged to protect and improve everyone's right to freedom and security, without subject to any foreign distinction or discrimination. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, another issue on the agenda is the new initiative by the Republican People's Party to resolve the Kurdish problem. We've made it clear from the very beginning that we welcome such initiatives. The Kurdish issue is a political problem that this Assembly must address. Parties in parliament must move the solution process hand in hand. We believe that all political parties and NGOs -- especially political parties in parliament -- have to contribute as long as they can. To defend and maintain the unity and unity of this country should be the debt of all of us. Haven't there been enough bloodshed in a 30-year conflict? Insisting on the concept of security, turning down the hand of peace will not give our people anything. Regarding the bill, he says that we support the law under the conditions of resolving what we are talking about, and I hereby salute you all again. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0023par0385	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Gaziantep MP Derya Bakbak. Here you go, Mr. Bak Bakak.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0024par0389	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group regarding the Tourist Guidance Legislature bill. I'd like to start by starting with the hope that the Tourism Guidance Law Bill, which we brought to parliament for the sake of improving revenues, creating new professions, providing more quality tourism services, developing the tourism guidance profession, would be a good thing. Our country is a center of attraction in the world in terms of its natural beauty, in terms of its special position, with many artifacts and ruins from ancient Greece to the Hitites, Seljucian to the Ottomans, and Ottomans, which carry the heritage of many civilizations on its soil. Despite all of these features, our country, which was the center of connection with Europe, Africa and the Middle East, was in a position until recently to be a coastal tourism country, in other words, to have the chance to become a warm climate country and try to use that opportunity. When we looked at the tourist profile, we could see more tourists from the cold climate. So in the current tourism services, we have also provided sea coast tourism-based services, but in particular in the last decade, Turkey has expanded tourism by adding its history, adding its museums, adding its fabrics, adding its gastronomy, adding civilian architecture samples, adding winter tourism and congressional tourism. In parallel with these developments, needs have also developed, and new arrangements for these needs have begun to be needed. Our goal is to spread sustainable tourism to the level of the country, and that's the only way we're going to achieve a high brand-value standard. We must also introduce to the world the hospitable and peaceful tradition of our land, which has a meticulously loyal trail of history, of culture, of our land. Congressmans, in our power, we have raised our cultural values to increase the contribution of our tourism values, trying to bring them to world standards. By renovating our museums, our mausoleums, our shrines, our archaeological sites, we've been able to keep our history and profit from it. Statistics are the best proof of that. In 2002, our country ranked 17th in the world in terms of the number of tourists coming in, and in 2010 it ranked 7th in 2010. The number of foreign visitors with 13.2 million increased by 137.3 per cent in 2011 to 31.4 million. Tourism revenues were $11.9 billion in 2002, while in 2011, 93.27 per cent increased to $23 billion. These increases should not be ignored as a major part of the tourism promotional work. The budget for promotion in 2002 was $44m for abroad, and we raised it to 155 million in 2011 as the EC PARTY government. The number of tourist guides with 7.685 in 2002 rose to 13.214 in 2011. With our local, national and international vision in tourism and stable policies followed by 2023, our goal is 50 million tourists, $50 billion income. Congressmans, culture is the most important element of our social identity. We continue without a break from the work that preserves our values of civilization, culture and art and reproduces and contributes to future generations of global culture. Our understanding is to increase our wealth by adding to tourism culture and to transform our diversity into high possibilities. As we do so, we view this value as a common activity of our nation, giving great support for social creation and activities. See, ten years ago, we didn't even have an international-scale cultural inventory, and now, thankfully, we have a detailed inventory of our concrete and concrete cultural heritage of all our provinces. We're not only restoring the borders of the country, we're restoring our architectural heritage in various geographys of the world. We provide support for the development of our cities' tourism and cultural identities and for bringing our citizens' tourism and cultural needs to world standards. Tourism is rapidly changing in the world and in our country. It is necessary to adapt to this change, to act in line with new trends, new technologies, auditory and visual development. Otherwise, we stop being interesting, become ordinary, and we're going to run out. We're aware of this change, and the numbers are showing it. Tourism revenues in the world have been down since 2008, while the number of tourists has declined, and we are growing steadily. Thus, our tourism revenue is increasing steadily. Of course, it doesn't just happen. Look, we've brought new standards in Indian and foreign digs. Now we're sure to have someone with an academic title in foreign digs. In addition, 57 local archaeological excavations were held in 2002, while in 2011 the number increased more than two stories to 123. There are 43 other excavations conducted by foreign archeological institutes. We changed the concept of a museum in humans. We raised our standards by making museums more dynamic, more modern, more lively presentations, rather than just a sense of space with objects. See, only 10 historical heritages of Turkey so far have managed to enter UNESCO's world cultural heritage. Of the 38 historical heritage listed on the temporary list, 21 of them were listed during our reign. With the will of God, this number will increase even more. You know, with its latest mosaic site, Zeugma, the world's largest mosaic museum, also entered UNESCO's 2012 World Cultural Heritage List of Candidates. Our vision is vast, so we all have great duties. First, we must meet together under our tradition of tolerance, unity and unity. We should also be an example of professional tourist guides, who welcome our guest, who, with this tolerance, are reflected in our historical works, our figures, feel the power and importance of the host and the importance of our host. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, who is the tourist guide, and I need to answer that question. The tourist guide is the person who has the right and authority to carry out the tourist guidance profession, or the group of local and foreign tourists who conducts the travel programme in the name of the agency using the language they chose ahead of the trip, by introducing cultural, tourism, history, environment, social and so forth, or by travel agencies, as defined by the travel agency's written documents and ran its travel programme for consumers. Early guides to the world's written sources are referred to as Egyptian priests. However, the Olympic games that began in the 7th century B.C.E. were the beginnings of organised travel and brought along tourist guidance. ==Early life==Heredot, a historian and geographer born and raised in Anatolia, was one of the first guides to his travels and traditions, and in a sense he was a pioneer of cultural tourism. Later, the number of visitors to the Anatolian coast has also increased in parallel with the increase of trade and travel. In these times, however, counselors pass on hearsay. Tourism and tourist guidance have reached a quality similar to today, but only in the years following the industrial revolution. With the development of tourism and the beginning of mass tourism, professional tourist guidance was born. In our country, guidance dates back to the late 19th century. In 1839, the declaration of Tanzimat (Tanzimat) in the Ottomans had improved European relations with the arts and trade and increased the number of foreigners living in Istanbul. Along with this development, tourist guidance, the country's promotion and national security that began to appear in the Ottomans at the end of the 19th century was of great importance. The first example of efforts to institutionalize the profession is the Nizamname (1890). Two years after the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, Tourism, however, was at a standstill in the period of economic crises, which had been issued a decree on Interpretation and Guidance for the 1925-based Pilgrims. By 1971, the ruling of 1925 was adopted under tourist guidance. The first regulation on tourist guidance was published in 1971 under the name "Translator Guide Courses and Translation Guidance Regulation. " This regulation was changed in 1974 and is named after the Convention on Professional Tourist Guidance. It was changed in 1981, 83 and 86. The regulation was re-published in 2005, under the name "Professional Tourist Guidance Rule". In addition to courses opened by the Ministry today, tourist guides are trained by universities with two years of pre-license and four years of license programmes. Due to its cultural and natural wealth over the years, tourism has become increasingly important to Turkey, but has not been achieved in legal arrangements for guides who play an important role in tourism. In Turkey's introduction, a key part of tourist guidance has been laid down on a legal basis, in line with increasing number of guides, the quality and standards of employment, the definition of the tourist guidance profession, the framework of its framework, the control, and the implementation of sanctions to those who are not doing their job properly, and the development of new vocational organisations in the form of tourist rooms and tourist guide rooms. Companies of the public institution are established, with a legal personality, with the bill to be the upper chambers and rooms. The bodies, elections, tasks and powers of occupational organisations are organised in the bill. An arrangement has been made that rooms with 33 per cent of the total number of occupations registered throughout Turkey can be established on their application to the Ministry. In every district with at least 150 tourist guides within its borders, 33 per cent of the total number of occupations registered in that province were organised to establish a room with a legal personality and a public institutional institution based on the application of governorship. The arrangement has been made to allow multiple rooms to be established in the same province. Regional rooms could be established by the Ministry following the application of at least 50 tourist guides in non-room cities to find the province of the room centre. Other than these laws, there will be no guiding profession. The rights and obligations of the members of the profession are also regulated by provisions concerning the bill and the execution of the profession. In terms of tourist guides, there are obligations such as membership in this room, registration, receiving work cards for two years in terms of active guides, contracting written guidance and not working under the base fee. One of the conditions sought for admission is to graduate from the university's tourist guidance departments under the pre-license, licensing or master's degree programme, or to graduate at least at the level of a degree, except in other parts of the university's tourist guidance department. The tourist guidance certificate programme, with the joint proposals of the troops and the Ministry of Turkish Travel Agencys and the needs of the tourism sector, has been arranged to be organised by the Ministry's supervision and audit. Disciplinary crimes and punishments have been counted and disciplinary investigation has been established. If the bill is adopted, it is intended to establish a trade organisation that will cover all tourist guides, and then to be organised by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, and then to establish the legal infrastructure of the profession in line with the specifics of the profession, and to conduct the guidance work and procedures more effectively and quickly. In the event of this bill's legalisation, Turkey will take another step towards economic and social development, which will best assess the specific position of its geography, the rich heritage of its past. Members of parliament, Turkey's long-term prosperity is possible from an economic perspective that exceeds the national scale. The increase in our tourism revenues will serve that purpose. All the laws and regulations that our High Council has passed, all the laws that it will make, are aimed at increasing the well-being of our people. Thus, the star of the world, especially in our country's region, will be even brighter. With its location, its long-standing history, our country, which we are proud of in the years to come, I wish that this bill of law would be a blessing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0025par0424	Thank you, Mr Bak Bakk. Congressmans, we're moving on to the QA section. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0026par0427	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Food, since I couldn't find the Minister of Agriculture and Petting here on commissions, I felt the need to ask questions, but I'm afraid the Minister has also left here, but to be conveyed, there's a great deal of trouble with the cherries and strawberries that we export from the villages of Bursa Yenişehir, Karasu, Ayasma, and the villages of Kestel and İnegol due to extreme rain. Does the Department of Agriculture do any work on this, or will he just ignore it like in olives? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0027par0430	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0028par0432	Thank you, Mr. President. The Ambarite Biological Facility, built in İstanbul to purify the dirty water that flows to Lake Küçükçekmece and the Sea of Marmara, is envisioned to open and serve 1,600,000 people in 2012. On the other hand, 3 million people will be added to the area, along with both homes that have been built and built. According to the current address-based census, at the end of 2011, when we consider that some 1,600,000 people live in Hunters, Beylikdüzü, Albanianköy and Bashakşehir, the total population will reach 4.5 million people. Thus, the decontamination plant is not capable of responding to the population as it was in the project. Is there a measure for this inadequacy? If so, what is planned? Is there a revision in the facility's project? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0029par0435	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0030par0437	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, during your administration, Adana was really neglected and won by both agriculture and unemployment and industry. Now, I especially want to ask you about this tourism: Starting there from our Karastones, the Tuzla and Akyatan regions have the most beautiful beaches in Turkey, and the Seyhan River flows here. Do you have any work at the point where this place is declared a tourist destination? I think this will be good work at the point of opening the way for Adana. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0031par0441	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0032par0443	Thank you, Mr. President. In 2011, he visited only 311,000 local and foreign tourists. Gaziantep, however, is a province with a vast potential for tourism, along with the surrounding provinces. Is there a master's plan for tourism to improve tourism and increase the number of tourists in Gaziantep? Is it considered a basin when this tourism master plan is being planned? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0033par0446	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0034par0448	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, all elements of tourism infrastructure are required to provide qualified service. Tourism workers who sustain this sector with their hard work need to be removed from the seasonal position of workers. Tens of thousands of workers spend winters unemployed in Antalya every year. In this regard, a new system needs work to be created. Will the Ministry have a contribution, an effort for new support from tourism organizations? Is there a project? Also, tourism transport is in memory by several bad accidents. There are complaints here that employees, drivers, are running without insurance, work hours are not very careful. Will the Ministry have an initiative to resolve this problem? Because this should be considered part of the tourism industry, not just the problem of uninsured labor. A negativity there has a negative effect on the image of the industry, its perception abroad. What do you think about that? Finally, the law for Izmir 2020 EXPO has been passed, but there is still no concrete development for Antalya EXPO in 2016. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There is a great concern in Antalya. When are you going to take out this 2016 Antalya EXPO law, bring it to Parliament?
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0035par0454	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0036par0456	Thank you, Mr. President. Adana couldn't find what she hoped for from these regional incentives. As part of the tourism incentives, can our ovarian district be covered, including the areas that Seyfettin Bey had just said? You know, because of energy investments, Ceyhan Eggs is a world-renowned area, but the Egg Coast is one of the most beautiful beaches in the world. The energy zone and the places where you're going to declare a tourist zone are different places. So, do you plan to include this as a tourist destination? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0037par0459	Thank you, Mr Varli. Mr. Irony, again...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0038par0461	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, during Tourism Week, the law on tourism will be passed to the Minister again: Drinking water is dirty because of marble stoves in our village of Orhaneli Başköy, and no transactions are made, even though it has been identified by the State Special Administration. In this regard, I ask you to help me show me how to take the Minister of Environment to Bursa, or how to show these places, Tabul Baba, and Başköy. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0039par0464	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0040par0466	Thank you, Mr. President. The Metropolitan Municipality, as it is on all sides, is now conducting exercises on the shores of the Anatolian coast with a great drag. For example, today in Göztepe, without warning, a 22 - year - old fisherman destroyed his co-op with 150 police officers, and in a humbling manner. In addition, on the coast of Maltepe, despite all Maltepes' objections, despite the city's objections, DED reports have built a filling area despite zoning decisions. The filling areas -- you know, we're in Environment Week -- are causing a great deal of destruction, especially on the coast. I'd like to remind the authorities of that again here. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0041par0469	Thank you, Mr. Öpün. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0042par0471	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, international economic organisations, particularly the United Nations World Tourism Organization, offer investment opportunities for sustainable tourism and run programmes to support and implement sustainable policies. As I've just said, Gaziantep and its basin have a significant potential for tourism. Do you plan to make a program in Gaziantep to benefit from these programmes by the United Nations World Tourism Organization and other economic organisations? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0043par0475	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Mr. Dawn...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0044par0477	Thank you. Minister, there are about four hundred boats working day-to-day at the Dalyan River. These boats run on diesel. There's terrible pollution in the river. Dalyan is one of Turkey's most beautiful places. But there are several model boats that run on solar power. Do you plan to encourage cooperatives to do so and encourage solar-powered boats? I'd like your opinion on that.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0043par0479	Thank you, Mr. Dawn. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0045par0481	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, now, you know we have not contributed much to the preservation of our historic graveyards. What do you plan to do about protecting these? The second is: 2015 is coming, our old Van city, the town of Van, which is beneath Kale. You know, it was destroyed by the Armenians on 17 May 1915. Do you plan to dig there to prepare for 2015? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0046par0485	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0047par0487	First of all, the questions that I couldn't answer here -- many of them were already about to be transferred to other ministries, both to the Ministry of Agriculture and to the Ministry of Environment, they'd already get them from the reports, but I'm going to pass them on in particular. Other than that, in terms of tourism, 311,000 local and foreign tourists are coming to Mr. Serindağ. Is there a master's plan for tourism? You know, each ministry has its own budget for a separate grant for the GAP. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism also uses most of the funding for the GAP for Gaziantep. Look, Gaziantep, a perfect museum has been built. This museum, the mosaic museum, is perhaps a much larger museum, much more beautiful than in Tunisia, or in this region, or in the Mediterranean. Thanks to the mayor, we say that the public has re-elected because they think so, and it works very well. So how do we do a better master plan for gazantep and for each province? We have a study in our ministry, but we say: Gaziantep is a place that has saved itself. That's what we call it, Gaziantep saved himself. I mean, I don't want to give you the names of the provinces that didn't save themselves in front of Gaziantep, but Gaziantep has come a long way. How do you know he's on his way? Look, it doesn't make any five-star hotels government, it makes each of them private sectors. In the private sector, go somewhere and build a five-star hotel. If you say so, he won't. He does the feasibility report, sees if the hotel he built will fill out, if the investment he made will come out, and if it's physics, then that's when he'll do it. Take a look at the five-star hotels that have been built to Gaziantep in recent years, Mr. Serindağ, and we can see that Gaziantep has travelled far in tourism. Without the Syrian crisis, Gaziantep would have gone to a much better place than its present location, but the location of Gaziantep would have been much better, with the support of our Ministry. Now the provinces are competing. There's a master's plan for each province.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0048par0492	So you're not thinking about the basin.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0047par0493	No, it's in the basin... there's never a single destination. If you go only to Mardin, Mardin is not enough; you must take Midyat (Misyat) along with Mardin; you must take Hasankeyf (Ashakef) along with Midyat (Midyat), perhaps you should add the Ancient City of Dağara along with Hasankeyf. It's not only the Antwerp, but perhaps the beautiful sculpture museum at the Yesemek, in the open-air museum, along with Antwerp. So if you complete a destinization, there can only be a presence in tourism. So both the southeast and the Mardin and the Antwerp, hopefully, with Hatay. Look, the important thing here is to defend multiculturalism. When you experience multiculturalism, when you care about it all without distinction -- there's Rum Castle, which is a separate attraction -- you take the southeast to a very good point with tourism. Hatay is in a good place for multiculturalism, because Mardin is in a good place for multiculturalism, and Antwerp is in his way. So hopefully, if we live all sorts of cultures in the southeast, without any distinction, if we show them, if we take the hand work of humanity, the eyelit products from all people, from local to universal, hopefully, Turkey, Southeast, and Antwerp will be in very good shape. There's also a Minister, you know, of Family and Social Policy. My friends gave me notes, and there's a joint study with the Minister, and the GAP Administration has a master's plan, which is that there's additional support. Again, Mr. Acar... we really need to get the seasonal workers out of tourism, and we agree. Because a very well-bred person, you know, usually, let's say, in winter hotels, the workers are out of work in the summer, and, you know, summer hotels are out of work in the winter. But it keeps them from growing up in that sector because after three months, after five months, after six months, when they go somewhere else, there's no way they can go back to work again, all of them, B. Therefore, we believe that this service will cause a decline when there is a quality, a quality miscarriage. It's a study for this, and we've offered the Minister of Labour and Social Security at least this, as the ministry, that the citizens are ready for it. And everybody used to get a standard pension, but now they don't have that standard pension, so the more you pay, the more you get paid. So, in order to encourage summer work in places that belong to tourism this winter, the cost on the employer should be reduced to 50% of the premium burden, as well as accept workers, because when he finally retires, he will receive a low pensioner. We offered 50% to the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. Of course, it was possible to work partially with something that came from there, and it was said that if they went back to partial work, it could happen, but they're working on it, and they haven't come up with a common solution yet. Of course, someone else asked about Istanbul. The population of a decontamination facility for 1,200, 1,600, but the population is now 4 million, 3 million, so is that not enough? If not, know that Istanbul is our pupil, Istanbul is Turkey's pupil, Istanbul is the cultural capital. We call it the capital of Antalya tourism, but know that Istanbul's second hat is also the capital of tourism and Istanbul's name in Slavic, the city of the Tsars, the city of the emperors. Just now, my deputy here says that Kayseri is the city of Kazser, the city of the emperors, but know that Istanbul is the city of the emperors. And so is our emperor, the Conqueror. I have a teacher here, and I don't want to go into history, but Istanbul is the apple of our eye. I just came from Pakistan this morning, and the people in Pakistan say that every time we go to Istanbul, we can't believe it, but there's a big change in Istanbul. I really thank Mr. President. Istanbul belongs to all of us, not just to the President, not to me or to you, not to Hasip Kaplan Bey, but to all of us. In fact, we should be able to say that Istanbul is the common property of humanity, its common value. We'd be proud if everyone got out, so why bother with him? Therefore, Istanbul is on a very good road. If that is not enough, know that Turkey also has opportunities. Mr. President, of course, is the former mayor, so the modular is being done, so there's an additional possibility that there's no way that we or our mayor will allow anything to contaminate Istanbul. Another, of course, I said it again, but I'm going to tell the Minister of Agriculture if there's any work on cherries due to excessive rain in Kestel and Ingegöl villages. In Dalyan, again... in Dalyan, you know that I was the Undersecretary of Maritime before the Undersecretary of Culture and Tourism. When they first arrived, we changed regulations. They don't make noise and they don't mess around. So in order for these people to get licenses by then, for example, the machine unit would have to be a horse power or a kilowatt, but we changed regulations, we gave them permission to work. They need to be encouraged. Is there any special incentive? There was no financial incentive. Should it be given? It's absolutely necessary. If we want to protect the environment, if we want to protect Dalyan, we really need to support these solar-powered, environmentally respected boats, and I think there should be a study about it. The historic graveyards again, Mr. Halaçoglu Reverend. I mean, he's the apple of our eye, but he's been neglected in the past years. But in this period, you know, the area of culture and tourism -- including the region of Ahlat, Tatvan, Ercish, and Ercish -- was declared to be an area of development, and was placed under the special protection of our President. It's been published in the official paper, but now there's a problem with recording all the graves in Ahlat, creating the travel route, the reception center, which we have no financial problem with, having projects passed through the boards before. So in my time at the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, for God's sake, without any distinction to Roman culture or previous ancient cultures, they are our wealth, but surely in this time of our time, it is the summer palace of Ahlat. So, as with Seljuk's work, as with Sivas, don't bring it forward... the divorcée of Ulucami...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0049par0503	The trees are coming out, that's why, Minister.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0047par0504	I mean, I don't. Like I said, it's much better than before, so hopefully we'll go together this year or a proper year. And we say, really, it's the common wealth of this geography. He's in a much better situation, so it's not just us, it's our local executives, so hopefully we'll make them a lot better than they used to be. Another member of our Congress said that the region of Karatas is really in tourism, as he said, it didn't take its rightful place. At that time, we did a research conference on how to develop culture and tourism in Adana, and the coastal region of the Blackstone region is within the culture and tourism development area. Notice that no five-star hotel has ever been built there. Why wasn't it done? It wasn't done because it was in the cultural zone and it was taken into the tourist zone. Of course, it's good for protection, nothing's been done, but something has to be done. Now, I hope...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0050par0506	Mr. Secretary, you're quite right, but look at the mess that's going through there, what kind of protection zone is that?
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0047par0507	I mean, I looked at it, and I looked at it, and...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0050par0508	Let's go check it out, so the authorities...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0047par0509	So I went, just like he said, "I've been to Karataş and the ovaries everywhere."
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0050par0510	Let's not look at what's written on the paper.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0047par0511	Look, now that you've got the venues in Tarsus...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0050par0512	It's the same, it's the rest.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0047par0513	I know, I know, I know, I mean, there's no segregation for him, so if you could just walk a little bit, you'd cross the coast section, I know, but the land in Tarsus has been assigned to those who want to invest in five-star tourism, and they've started investing. So, hopefully, this will happen when they begin the allocations of the ovarian-Karastone region after Tarsus. What's the use? That's right, nothing's been done. The fact that it hasn't been occupied by slums and ugly buildings so far offers us an untamed treasure. There's dirt, but at least one structure more important than that would've been a lot harder to get rid of, and it would've been better to clean up the other. It'll be better if we wait a little longer, but it's pristine.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0051par0515	I told him about the old Van.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0047par0516	The old Van is being built, and you know the mosque above it for God's sake.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0051par0517	It's been done, but the city at the bottom...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0047par0518	They're doing six, so when I was undersecretary, we sent a lot of resources. Van is the pearl of the east, that's what he is. Therefore, both his castle and his mosque above, both Akdamara and his castle...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0051par0519	2015 is coming, Minister.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0047par0520	We have nothing to worry about. In 2015, the 100th anniversary of our victory in Çanakkale, hopefully, we'll celebrate it with pride and pride.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0051par0522	That's why I'm singing the 100th anniversary of Armenian genocide claims.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0052par0523	Yeah...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0047par0524	Let's not have any fear, if we're united, if we're united... or else the outside will know the opportunity, and we're not supposed to give them a chance. I want to thank you all for your contributions.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit01spe0052par0527	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0052par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 117th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 257. The Commission and the Government are in place. I'm reading article one of the bill: Purpose, Containment and Descriptions MADDE 1- (1) The aim of this Law is to organise procedures and principles related to accepting tourist guidance, practice of the profession, and the establishment and functioning of tourist organisations. (2) This law includes acceptance of tourist guidance, vocational education and practice, the establishment of tourist guides rooms and tourist guide rooms, the establishment of units and elections, the state and procedure of loss of body quality, duty and powers, bilateral rights and obligations with its members, income and costs, and budgets, the duties and powers of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, co-operation with professional institutions and the supervision of tourist organizations. Antalya MP Yildı Ray Sapan on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Sapan.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0053par0013	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the Vinci clause of the bill we're discussing. I salute you all. The tourist guide is the first and most important person in the way tourists think about our country, our culture, our traditions and customs, our nature, our history, to understand, to understand, to be well-equipped, to be mirrored from the moment the tourist came to our country, the way he looked at it, and the way he put it, the way he felt about our country. Written sources say the Egyptian priests were the first guides in the world. However, the Olympic games that began in the 7th century B.C.E. were the beginnings of organised travel, accompanied by tourist guidance. Guide organisations have made great efforts in quality, service, education and development of the sector for half a century. A number of regulations have been published many years ago about tourist guidance, but the desired result has not been reached in the legal arrangements for guides who play an important role in tourism. A proposal containing the modern legal arrangements required by guidance has been waited for years to come to the Assembly General Assembly. In the last nine and a half years of AKP power, this law has remained on dusty shelves. Fortunately, the Parliament was brought to the agenda by the efforts of TOREB. The adoption of the law, the Professional Tourist Guidance Act, as soon as possible, is of great importance to the country's tourism. Dear lawmakers, tourist guides in our country have many problems. Part of these problems will be eliminated by the legislation of the bill we discussed. However, by guaranteeing guidance counselors' social rights and fees, the negativity caused by grown counselors to leave the profession should be restored to guidance, an agency, a hotel relationship, and the guidance should be given a professional job identity. Other than that, guides need to be trained to specialize, to be able to make careers in many branches from bird watch guides to rafting guides. With the expertise of the old guides being provided, the training of the new ones must be done in this framework. The guides know the tourist well, they know their problems and their demands, and they are the ones who will best expose the tourist profile. Therefore, when general tourism policies are being formed, there must be participation among guides in sectoral decisions. In order for our country to maintain the development of tourism within a healthy structure, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism still needs to be transferred to the Union, but all the powers in the bill are met at the Ministry. Despite our efforts in the commission, our motions on this matter have not been met by the AKP. It is unlikely that a structure that does not control itself and does not question itself will receive healthy results. For years, professional powers for travel agencies alone have been virtually inequality, not being recognized by other agencies. The sector elements must be enabled to function at the point of resolving this inequality and within the framework of integration into the European Union's legislation. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, it's hard not to mention the general problems of our country's tourist industry, which is the apple of the eye when the tourist code is being discussed. The biggest problem is that AKP has no stable state policy in tourism. A state policy in the tourism sector, which is so intertwined with other sectors, must be created. A stable, healthy co-ordination must be carried out by the dissolution of soundness, management and confusion in this area, and tourism should spread throughout the country, throughout the entire year. In addition, a multidimensional tourism campaign should be launched to help understand the importance of tourism -- one of the sectors in which our country's future depends; this education should be spread through the media. For example, there should be at least five or ten minutes of general tourism training every day during the most television-watched hours. The awareness that the tourist will improve the entire country, that smiling at them, that quality services will allow new tourists to come and tourism will interest everyone should be adopted not only in the industry and in the tourism-related sectors, but also in the public. The increasing number of travel agencies and guides is lowering quality in the industry every day. But in the tourism industry, quality must come first. Therefore, the opening of new travel agencies must be stopped until demand increases, ending the development of new guides, or raising the bar in guidance training, while the existing agencies and guides must be provided with various online trainings. Prices that have been reduced in recent years must be reduced to what they deserve. It must be difficult to open a travel agency or a tourism business to improve quality. Dear lawmakers, since AKP governments have not followed a healthy and stable tourism policy for nine and a half years, even high-budget international promotions have failed to yield results. Co-ordinated promotion will make it easier for our country to capture the growth it aims at tourism. Once the tourist leaves our country, the service must be maintained, meaning that the management's post-sale service principle must also be implemented by tourism; it will also have significant contributions to Turkey's promotion. Quality and good service is just one of the points in the country where tourists go. Tourists don't prefer countries where security isn't provided, they have difficulties in and out, they've reached intense levels of pollution, infrastructure can't be built properly. Therefore, the tourist's security must be maintained, and environmental pollution and infrastructure problems must be resolved immediately. Turkey has a structure and wealth that, given its natural, historical and cultural conditions, can make tourism revenues in various areas. Rafting to mountaineering, underwater historical and cultural heritage, should be diversified in tourism by taking advantage of the possibilities that exist in many things that I don't need to count one by one here. This diversity will boost our tourism revenues as well as make Turkey one of the world's tourist paradises. It is evident that the tourist who vacations in the system, including everything that comes to the resorts, does not leave enough income for tourism and its livelihoods. Since such packages are so cheap, they also lower the quality of the incoming tourist, while not leaving the expected foreign currency for being imprisoned in holiday villages, they encourage illicit drinking and poor food consumption. The figures on the growing number of tourists announced by the AKP are nothing more than an illusion. The profit margin for revenue from tourism is getting smaller and smaller, and the tourism sector is signalling danger. Thus, the type of tourist our country needs should be determined and encouraged to do so. Mr. President, good lawmakers, one of the most important problems of tourist guides is the government's incentive to employ illegal guides. In particular, some agencies in the Antalya region receive guidance by taking smelly guides in as tourists during their visit to historical sites. This includes information about a thousand foreign illegal tourist guides. The fact that travel agencies find it cheap that foreign nationals give tourist guides to foreign nationals has damaged the image of Turkish tourism, prompts foreigners without stinky guidance to give tourists false information about Turkey. Anthalya's tradesman is therefore very uncomfortable with fugitive tourist guides. As soon as tourists are taken from the airport, foreign national guides sell tourists expensive Turkish trades, don't buy products, add drugs to your drink, rob you, or even rape you. Complaints about Turks as a barbaric and cruel nation have also been received as they paraded their plots for foreign fugitive guides. Fugitive guides also give false information about the historical monument and religion in our country. It would be appropriate for the Ministry of Culture and Tourism to increase controls to prevent agencies from employing foreign national fugitive guides. As a result, during nine and a half years of AKP power, tourism has not been a brand in the world, has not been cleared of its problems.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0054par0031	Please complete your statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0053par0033	This bill is an application that will relieve some of the pressure on tourist guides, give the industry a breath of relief, a provision that we support as the Republican People's Party, despite its shortcomings. I wish you all the best of the 2012 tourist season, which has begun with a 15% addition compared to the last few years.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0054par0036	Thank you, Mr. Sapan. On behalf of him, Adana MP Seyfettin Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0055par0040	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own people regarding Tourist Guidance Law Bill 257 rows. My respects to all of you. I wish this bill would bring blessings to our tourism and our country. But first, I want to get into matters related to my own constituency, Adana. Although I've just asked Mr. Secretary, Adana, you know, in this period of power, has lost blood in all areas over the last decade, so it's a city that's been treated especially as a foster child by the ruling party. Here he is first in unemployment; in health corruption, in corruption, in investments, he takes the last in last places, but Adana has important potentials for tourism with its historical heritage, its natural beauty, its social and cultural values. Look, I'd like to address the authorities of the Ministry of Tourism here: our region, one, is sea tourism; two, crossbow tourism -- so today hundreds of thousands of people spend their time on the plateau during the summer season. We have many bows, small and small, from Tekir to Horzum, from Kozan to Burcek. It's in the hands of God, and it's going by itself without any work. Again, we must not think of our territory alone. If you look at it with Mersin, Hatay, Osmaniye, Niğde, and Niğde, it has very important potentials for health tourism as a door to both ecotism and Middle East tourism. Now, we presented the project before the election. I'm speaking to the Ministry of Tourism officials here: Look, the best 45km beaches in Turkey are in what we call Karataş, Tuzla and Akyatan. From the place where the Seyhan River was poured into the sea, you took it to Adana. It's 40 to 50 meters wide in this 40-mile-long place... and we say, "Come, let's unite the sea and Adana." When we build a 40-50-meter channel... the Channel Adana project is a very simple project, and it's easy to implement because it's a low-cost project that's completely classified by State Water Affairs. Let's declare this area a tourist area, where five-star hotels can be built, and from golf courses to hobby gardens around the canal, when the Adanan is off from Adana, let it be able to sail by boat and by boat. It depends on some projects. And once again, from economism to Bolkar to Demirkaziks, from Karagöl to China Lake, from the forest of Hacer to the Sevengöl, we see very serious potentials in the world today, but when you look at it, we don't see a serious investment in our region in tourism. Again -- I want to say all of this as a whole -- we have a very important potential for health tourism, like the Middle East. When we evaluate our region in terms of useful resources, we can also assess this area in terms of health potential and turn it into the center of health tourism. So I'd like to say to the ruling members and the government that you've been treating Adana as a stepchild for ten years. Look, Dukurova has the world's most religious lands, but it's dying in agriculture right now. Although Turkey was Turkey's first industrialised city in the 1950s, nearly 50 factories were closed during your rule, tens of thousands of people lost their jobs. In addition to agriculture and industry, tourism has a very important potential when we consider our region as a whole. I'd like to ask the ruling party again, and I'd like to ask the Minister and the tourism authorities to answer: Is there any way we can do a serious project on this region of ours that has such significant tourism potential? Now, the development of countries isn't about doing certain areas. Here you are talking about the crazy project in Istanbul, but regional development is much more important for the development of a country. You're putting billions of dollars in there. If you think of Osmaniye, Adana and Mersin as a whole, starting with Hatay, you're going to get a lot more than 1 in 50 percent of this investment. You're talking about a second mega-city when you take this area into the area of Alexandria, Sakarya, Istanbul. Here, you can see how Turkey was affected by an earthquake. It's possible to be a great country, to think big, but to act out potential. There are those potentials in our region. We ask you to bring those potentials into existence. I'm gonna...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0056par0053	Please complete your statement.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0055par0054	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0056par0056	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Moving on to QA. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0057par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, while Mr. Secretary was answering the question, Gaziantep said that Gaziantep was a self-sufficient province, that he didn't really need anything, that he really had enough of himself. That's right, Gaziantep is one of the most important provinces of its territory. If Gaziantep wasn't already important, there wouldn't be a master plan for tourism or a plan for a basin. He also said that Gaziantep is a province of many cultures, and so is its environment. However, it is also essential that there is a healthy plan for them to be well evaluated. That's what planning is all about. Turkey's largest mosaic museum is in Gaziantep.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0056par0062	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0058par0064	Minister, we're talking tourism, the Secretary of Defense is here, we're talking about terrorism, the Minister of Agriculture is responding. And I'm not gonna ask you about tourism. You know, two hundred and eighty days ago, three hundred days ago, what do you have to say about your staff, the people who were abducted by the terrorist organization? Do you have an initiative? I wonder if there's any work you're doing to save those people from the terror organization, or if you're too busy with tourism.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0056par0065	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0059par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you know that Antalya is the capital of tourism, and we're talking tourism. The protection of green in Antalya is crucial, and the city has turned into a concrete heap, and tourists do not usually come to the centre of the city. Therefore, there are now 125 acres of green land in the center of the city. This is the 100th year's land, 100. It's called the Year's Zone. This 125-acre area is planned to be given back to the TOKI, where a stadium is to be built, and the rest is to be considered a commercial area or a housing area by TOKI. Antalya has no city square. The rescue of this 125-acre field is vitally, vitally important. From here, on behalf of the people of Antalya, I ask the Minister and the Minister of Tourism: Please do not cause this 125 acres to rain on TOKI.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0060par0071	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0061par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister is, please consider it an information supply along with the question. Heromarash may be one of Turkey's least open and visitors to domestic and external tourism. We don't have any investments in tourism. But in all its natural beauty, it's one of the counties of our 81 provinces. Do you plan to invest in Kahramanmarash as a government regarding tourism? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0062par0077	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu. Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0063par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. The Arak district of Tripoli is one of Turkey's most beautiful corners, particularly in the Bayburt region of Turkey. Now, we've been told that there's going to be a solid waste treatment plant in this area. Is that true? Why are you building this facility in a region as beautiful as Switzerland? I'd like some information on that, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0064par0083	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0065par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, will the heavy maintenance in Erzincan be closed or will it remain open? They say he's moving to Erzurum. I want to know about this.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0064par0087	Thank you, Mr. Light. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0066par0089	First of all, I'll start with the last question. The heavy maintenance in Erzincan will not be moved to Erzurum, but will remain in its place. We don't have any work done at the Ministry on the move right now; that's the first thing. In other words, Mr. Dinçer said: "Trabzon Arık is one of the most beautiful parts of the Black Sea. It's supposed to be a solid waste treatment plant. Is there any study of this? Of course, we'll ask the Ministry of Environment, and we'll tell you the truth. But you know before, Pineburnu... the pineburn was probably one of the most beautiful places in the world, one of the rare places where yellowwood meets the sea. Well, that's where it's been done. But know that a condensed waste treatment plant or processing facility must be built somewhere in the Black Sea. If we say you choose, know that someone else will object. But this has to happen, too. Hopefully, our government... the party that has the most support in the region. So if he disturbs the people there, he loses his support. Therefore, it is unthinkable that there should be an act against the will of the people. By consulting the people there, not by ordering, not by command, by taking their opinion, hopefully this solid waste treatment facility will be built in the best part of the Black Sea. It's to be done so the environment stays clean. Look, our deputy in Adana just said: "Here are plastics, bags, not clean..." Why? Because there are no solid waste treatment facilities or processing facilities. Hopefully, if it is done in a suitable place for the Black Sea, the problem of the Black Sea will be resolved. He used to be thrown into the Black Sea, but the sea wouldn't accept what was thrown at him, so he would somehow return it to you. So you shouldn't throw it in the sea. This has to be done on land. Hopefully, as Turkey develops, as it grows, it will build environmentally compatible solid waste treatment plants that are in harmony with nature. Mr. Dedeoğlu, Kahramanmarash... you know, I'm from Sivas Gürülü. The neighbor of Gurün is both Afshin (Afshin) and Elbistan (Albistan). Maraş is our neighbor, brother, I'll tell you that. I know very well, but the state doesn't invest in tourism, the government does infrastructure. What does he do? He'll make his way. What does the government do? He builds the airport. He built hotels a long time ago, but now hotels don't, if that's what you're thinking. Other than that, the government does the infrastructure, the top structure, if it's feasibility there, if it can be done, if it can be maintained. If we make a five-star hotel, if it doesn't work out, that means we've buried the rights of 70 million, which is not true. Besides, my Kahramanmarash brothers don't want that either. But for the development of infrastructure, we're doing everything we can to restore historical beings, and I know very well that the Ministry of Culture and Tourism has sent them to Kahramanmarash, one of their sources. However, in a neighborhood of Maraş, a perfect base mosaic -- as he said -- was found, so hopefully, if it is expanded -- which remains -- it will become a very beautiful attraction in the province of Kahramanmarash, where there will be a gravity field. Of course, Mr. Serindağ, as I said, we're talking about Antwerp. I mean, the more we do in our provinces, the better. Your Grace has also told me that in comparison to the surrounding provinces, Antwerp is in a very good place. That's what we're saying. But should Antwerp be in a better place? I do. Do we work for him, too? We're working. I just told you. He's got a minister. Having a minister is a far greater advantage. There are MPs like you. You see, at least he's making his point. If he does, we've got deputies, and they're tracking services, hopefully, and he'll come to a better place. Of course, Antalya... I certainly agree with Antalya. Are five - star hotels enough for Antalya in the previous period? Because there's, like, 500,000 things, maybe, or there's more bed capacity. Hence, no more use of Antalya, no more contamination. Is it getting dirty? I don't think it's getting dirty. But you can't make it a pile of rocks. The Ministry of Tourism, both in our time, in the ten years before that -- and I say to them as their same guarantor -- has never been given the opportunity for environmental pollution in any of the plans the Ministry of Tourism has made in tourist areas. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism has assigned it, approved the zoning plan, but the structure has become very bad. There is no place to call it. However, in Bodrum, Marmaris, if you go and look, the beaches are filled with second dwellings; they are of no use to those who make them, nor to our nation, nor to our country. So I think it's important not to be afraid of the allocations and direction of the Ministry of Tourism. Antalya is in a very good place, I hope, from Kassah to Anamur, until Alanya. Over 10 million tourists have accepted this year. Hopefully, this course will go away, but I agree, much more, Antalya should not be cemented.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0067par0096	Minister, I say as the government, this is not a savings of the ministry, it's the government's savings.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0066par0097	Yeah, so your 120,000 square feet is 100. As you say, I will convey to the Minister of the Environment your view of the transfer of the stadium plus commercial space plus housing.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0067par0098	Thank you very much, Minister.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0066par0099	Don't mention it. By the way, Mr. President, we've had some sad news today, and... of course, I know you're all upset. It's really one of the major milestones of Turkish poets' Turkish thought life.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0068par0102	Mr. Secretary, you haven't answered my question yet.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0069par0103	We were out of time, but I'll give you one more minute, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0068par0105	No, answer my question first, then say it.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0070par0106	Every object has its border, but no limits are drawn to love, Mihriban. The writer of his words, Abdurrahim Karakoç has received the mercy of Hakkk. May his place be in heaven. The people who put stones on stones in the culture of this country, in the cultural building will not forget it, nor will they forget Abdurrahim Karakoch. May his place be in heaven. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0068par0108	Mr. Secretary, can you tell me which minister I'm going to ask? Can you please tell me which minister I'm going to ask?
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0070par0109	You asked.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0068par0110	Why don't you answer my question?
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0070par0111	Our Home Secretary answers, our Minister of Defense answers...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0068par0112	Isn't that your staff, these two soldiers? Why aren't you answering?
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0071par0113	Mr. Akar, please...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0070par0114	What are we talking about here? We're talking about the guidance law.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0068par0115	Then let the Minister of Tourism come here, sir, not the Secretary of Defense.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0070par0116	Representing the government...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0068par0117	You have to answer my question, written or spoken.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0072par0118	Mr. Secretary... please don't talk to each other. Please, Mr. Akar, take your seat. I'm sure the Minister will answer it in writing. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the implementation of this Law; A) Ministry: Ministry of Culture and Tourism B) Union: Tourist guides, "C") Work card: the permit given to active tourist guides by the room where they are registered to carry out the profession for a year or so, ) Action tourist guide: A tourist guide with the right and authority to have a working card and actually provide tourist guidance, D) Inactional tourist guide: A tourist guide with a license and no work card, e) Occupation: Tourist guidance f) Occupational organisations: Tourist guides, rooms and troops, G) Room: Tourist guide rooms, đ) License: The document given by the Ministry to tourist guides carrying the terms of employment H) Tourist guide: A real person who has the right and authority to offer tourist guidance by being accepted into office under these Laws, I) Tourist guidance service: Using language chosen by individual or group of domestic or foreign tourists before the trip, the country's culture, tourism, history, environmental, nature, social or so-called values will be introduced in accordance with cultural and tourism policies, or the introduction of tours organised by travel agencies, as defined by the travel agency's written documents and conducted in a way that is sold to consumers. It means something. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0073par0138	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation, and thank you very much for the promise. Dear friends, we're having a quiet day. I've taken advantage of it, and I've made a promise to present some of my views and wishes about this law. And I consider it an important gain for our Minister, Mr. Ministry of Culture and Tourism, to have our former Undersecretary here. We're making an important law. What is this? Tourist guidance. Because tourism has become a very important sector for our Turkey, one of the main sectors. I think it's possible that tourism revenues have reached, like, $30 billion. So, we're making a law in our Parliament on the establishment of the professional room of tourist guides with such a great value, a place for tourism, a very important service. First of all, I'd like to wish that this law brings charity, benefits to the profession, service to the industry, and I'd like to thank everyone who's done it in the first place. On this occasion, I'd like to bring some things to the attention of the concerned. Dear friends, there are some really important developments in the tourism industry. Turkish Airlines planes have catalogs, brochures, catalogs published by the Ministry of Tourism at airports. And if we look at the numbers there, we'll see that the tourism industry has gained a serious acceleration, there's progress, numbers have increased. But there's one thing that stands out: our tourist numbers have increased, our tourism revenues have increased, but our profitability rate has dropped. It's important, it's dangerous. I don't know if we can say it, but it's important. So Turkey's work, our people's work, and our resources are being sold cheaply. This means that the method, including everything, brings about millions of dollars of investments, and that we have sold our very important sun, our sand, our culture, very cheaply. I think that the decline in profitability in the tourism sector should be an important issue in terms of the industry, in terms of management. I'd like to bring this to your attention first. Dear Minister, valued MPs, I note one thing: The Ministry of Culture and Tourism, 4848, is now ranking the Ministry's duties in Article 13 of the Law on the Ministry and its duties. In addition to these tasks, it is considered necessary to establish such a vocational chamber. It's the right thing to do, but you know that the goal of democracy, the development of democracy, the purpose of handing over more powers in government, authority, to civil society -- we're developing democracy, we're developing democracy. If you're going to make a claim, we're going to be more democratic, we're going to bring forward democracy. If you're saying that you're going to have some of your powers, you're going to have to transfer them to people, civil society, organizations. That's the scope and purpose of democracy's development. It was natural for the Ministry of Culture and Tourism to check all the services for this area, when they had no vocational rooms before, but now you're building vocational rooms -- you're doing very well -- but you're taking all the authority back into your own hands when you're taking out the law of vocational rooms. I sincerely believe in his democratic personality, his efforts at this point, Mr. Secretary, that he should be able to absorb this age of authority, a very fundamental rule of democracy. He's not here, and I know that my words will reach him, and he will answer, and I know his kindness. But really, as we passed the law, you see, the esteemed members of the National Movement Party, Mr. Ali Halaman and Ali Torlak Bey, have made it very clear that the People's Party of the Republic has done the same thing in opposition. Now, you've gathered all the powers at the Ministry again. Then why are we setting up the business room? It doesn't fit a business room joke, so it doesn't fit the equal law in the medical room, the barrooms, the engineering rooms. I tried to make a point. The Ministry will give the registration, the Ministry will pass the application for the job, the Ministry will pass the occupational discharge, the membership will pass the ministry, and the non-actional tourist guide will win the Ministry's test to become an active tourist guide. There's no need for that, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Undersecretary. So you're building a business room; you're going to trust, you're going to believe in this business room; you're going to believe in the will, the decision of the tourist guides who have come together to solve the problems of their profession. Come on, check it out, we're not objecting to him. In fact, you have to support the education, you have to support the RD, and that's necessary, but that's the admission of membership, sir, and here's the license, the dismissal issue, and there's no place for that in democracy or civilization if you take it above the Ministry. It's all wrong, Mr. Undersecretary, I think it should be corrected. Another issue is due to the writing of the law, which is said in the 2nd article's joke, "The units of the tourist guides." Now, the Republican People's Party has drawn attention to the opposition, and said: "If you call the troops, you'll allow a large number of troops to be formed in the same profession." That's not true. The power of vocational rooms comes from the union in the profession. If you tear apart the unity of the profession, if you allow a large number of troops to form, you'll tear this place apart, you'll do more damage than good. In order to make this kind of error or not be understood, you have to at least write it down on the grounds that it will be the only room, that these rooms will be one unit as the upper board. If the ruling party group dictates to the law that this should be understood by a motion, it will do the right thing, or as a government. I've been promised to present these issues. Minister, I'll tell you one more thing: there's no point in tearing down a place when you're doing it. Look, we're making a mistake. We're making a law here; we're bringing in a lot of exceptions, we're bringing in obstacles, we're building a measure. And then we make another law, and we make a change in the law to eliminate these obstacles that we set up ourselves. This is not the right thing to do. We have to make laws based on trust, not exceptions, based on the general, based on basic provisions, but every time, we make laws by putting a priority on the siege of fears, and that's wrong. One of them is that tourism is very important. The tourism industry is a very serious sector for our country, but we're shutting down the local municipalities. But in those tourist areas, we have pearly cities, and we have municipalities here. These municipalities serve tourism, both for our people and for that city. Now, you're making a law, you're building a city hall. It's 200 miles. How will you see the tourism services of the Kören village of Anamur, of Mersin Central? We're washing up a place, that's not true. You have to get used to thinking in a wholeness. The Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant, Mersin Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant. Dear friends, perhaps Turkey's pearl will be built in those four coves -- my deputies know -- now a nuclear power plant will be built. We're starting the second movement of tourism from Mersin. There's a statement from the Prime Minister saying, "We're going to the best coves in this region and we're building a nuclear plant, and there's a contradiction here. The nuclear plant may be necessary for nuclear energy, but it is unwise to eliminate the revenue of tourism that lays golden eggs today. Again, Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant wishes to review its decision on this occasion, with respect to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0074par0153	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Moving on to QA. Mr. Reminder, here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0075par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Istanbul is as important a cultural centre as it is a tourist city. The city and state theaters have been left in the middle of the trouble you caused last month. In order for the works of the next season to be put on stage, the work must begin, while artists wait helplessly. The solution must be found at once. In addition, the name of the great dramatist Ibo Scene of Wax has been changed in Beskoz. What's the reason? The name of Ahmet Mithat Efendi must be given to a bigger and new stage. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0076par0160	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Eryılmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0077par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. He is still on trial in the ongoing trial of the Sledgehammer, where 250 have been arrested and 364 members of the Turkish Armed Forces. More than half of them are regular staff still on duty, and 57 are all kinds of generals and admirals. These members of the armed forces on trial have been arrested for attending seminars within the military. However, only 162 officers from 364 arrested officers attended this seminar. In addition, only 52 have been tried and no charges have been filed against the others. As a result of the trial and correspondence, some three hundred false evidence are also alleged to be involved in this trial. So, what have you done, what do you think you've done, what do you think you've done to this day, because of the injustices these members of the armed forces, your staff, have suffered? Do you intend to do any research on those who fabricate false evidence?
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0076par0164	Thank you, Mr. Eryilmaz. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0078par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. One of the world's most important organizations, Mr. Secretary, is the theme of the World Botany EXPO, which will be held in our country under the name EXPO 2016. With the theme of Antalya, EXPO 2016 will be an important step towards integration with the Day of Child on 23 April. It is also an important promotional organisation because the region is a natural plant museum. However, in such a short period of time, the challenge of finishing the work needed for EXPO -- especially the upper structure and infrastructure -- should be considered. The city has the potential to organise an EXPO in recent years due to investments in public transport systems, the existence of the airport and the efficiency of technological investments. However, for the organisation's success, the infrastructure must be redesigned and developed in a planned and holistic manner, considering that 3-7 million tourists will visit the EXPO (exPO) within six months. It is important for the city of tourism to organise an EXPO in Antalya. It is a particularly important organisation for the spread and diversification of tourism in 12 months. Why don't you bring the law, Mr. Secretary, in the name of the government?
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0076par0168	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0079par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. One of the great poets our heromarash raised was Abdurrahim Karakoch, who, unfortunately, lost today. My condolences to all the Kahramanmarash and the Turkish nation, and my condolences to their loved ones. One of his most important poems was the Mihriban, which was twenty-four continents. May he rest in peace. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0080par0175	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0081par0182	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, do you have any work on the rights of civil servants working in the military? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0082par0185	Thank you, Mr. Light. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0083par0187	Mr. President, lawmakers, a fellow MP from the National Movement Party earlier expressed the problems of civil servants. We've made a statement about them, but I'd like to give you a written, detailed information so that it doesn't fall short. The other thing is, it's about the Sledgehammer case. Our congressman said there were 300 false evidence. What are you doing?
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0084par0189	I said 300, but 1,500, 1,500 false evidence...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0083par0190	Okay, 500, 600, I get it. I mean, is it expected that in a case that's being seen, I should be the one to decide whether or not the Ministry should decide whether or not it's a forgery?
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0084par0192	No, what I'm saying is, it's a fake...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0083par0193	What do we say? Look, the Turkish judge, I believe -- 300 principals, 400 principals, 500 principals, or 200 managers -- will surely remove false documents, whatever they are, and if they are charged with false documents, they will be acquitted of them as well. However, if there is no false document, the judge will decide. Look, I'm a lawyer, too, so the forgery or error of a document is being processed by an expert witness, and then the technical expert report says -- the judge decides -- either this document is a forgery, and this document is not a forgery.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0084par0194	No one expects justice from these judges anymore, Minister. Why don't you do a congressional investigation? So many generals, the admiral is a victim.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0083par0195	My beautiful brother, look, this is not true; we do not expect justice from judges. The word is not true. You may have said something just to use that word, but you would have done a great deal of damage to both the Turkish judiciary and the Turkish nation and the Turkish state. We mustn't shake this nation's faith in judgment. That's the essence.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0084par0196	I'm afraid there isn't, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0083par0197	Of course, there was a question about Antalya's EXPO. The city and state theaters, as they say, in the theatres of the city and state, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism wants the city and... Look, where there's no competition, there's no art, there's no competition, there's no sport. Therefore, there must be competition in both sports and art, but there is no competition in funded theaters. It's not true whether everyone is playing games or not, if they're getting the same price, whatever performance they're doing, if they're getting the same. So what needs to be done? It needs to be popularized, open to competition, so we can get to the top point in art and sports. So...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0085par0199	The city also happens in sports, sir, and so does municipal sports.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0083par0200	That's what we're saying. Look, now Kasympaşa has stopped, here he is in the First Division. So it turns out to be a good worker, a hard worker, an employee. I think it's necessary to maintain competition in both art and sports.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0085par0201	Ankara City has withdrawn, Ankara power is down in a minute, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0083par0202	Mr. President, I'd also like to make a statement: Of course, Mr. President made a statement, and he said, "Why is there more than one union?" Of course, first of all, I'd like to say that guides protect their own interests more than anyone else, because these guides are truly educated, enlightened, they know the world and they know Turkey. If they see their own interests united, they won't need a second union. However, if they feel that their own interests are not protected by unity in some way, and their views are not respected by the current union, and if they are not spoken for, then it is also necessary for them to form another union, democracy and many voices. If the idea that each unit can protect its members' rights better is right, we shouldn't allow more than one labor union, and we shouldn't allow more than one union of officers to be organized. We say that competition is good, we get better, we get quality; too loud, democracy is good. So I'm thinking, whoever can express the needs and complaints of the people he represents, they'd certainly prefer them, too. Different ideas and opinions are rich, and they bring competition in the ministry, and we think of guides who will provide better opportunities for better service. So I'm thinking it's okay. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0086par0204	Mr. Aydın, you've entered the system. We have time. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0087par0208	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, today the flame on the lamp is cold. Today we are deeply distressed. One of the great figures of our cultural world is a litigator, but also an idea man, a great poet, Abdurrahim Karakoc, who we regret the death of. We wish him God's mercy. We say, "All Maraş, our nation's head." May God make his place a paradise. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0088par0211	Thank you. Mr. Aydın, we say God rest his soul, may he rest in peace. Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0089par0215	Thank you. And I, Abdurrahim Karakoch, the great poet, ask God's mercy, and we are all very sorry for our sins. In his famous song, the poet, Mihriban, whose hair was mad in my heart and tied in my heart, is not unraveling the death of Mihriban/ Hard-to-knowing death/ when he didn't see it, seems to have ended the separation with his passing. May his place be in heaven. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0090par0218	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Öpün, we're out of time, but do you have any questions? It's too short.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0091par0220	I'm just Abdurrahim Karakoch...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0090par0221	We've got enough time for that. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0091par0224	Along with the great poets Hikmet and Ahmet Arif. We offer our condolences to Abdurrahim Karakoç's family. We also wish him mercy, our nation's salvation.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0090par0225	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0092par0228	Thank you very much. Sir, as the National Movement Party Group, we regret the loss of a very important poet of Turkish poetry. (Mirriban) Indeed, he was orphaned. We ask the poet, the thinker, the writer Abdurrahim Karakoch, for the blessings of the great God, to his grieving family, and to his friends. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0093par0232	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. [[Continue]] There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 2nd Article of the Tourist Guidance Law shall be changed in the following manner. The association: the tourist guides' room union, f) Occupational institutions: Tourist guides rooms and unity Prof. Dr. Haluk Eyidoğan Yıdırı Aydırı sapın Sakine Öz Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan İdris Yıldız Doğan Şaş Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0094par0252	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0093par0253	Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0095par0255	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. President, tourism is really important. The tourism sector is an important sector for the development and progress of countries. It is very important to create a progressive tourism policy that will support economic and development policies at both national and international levels, boost our competitiveness and thus strengthen the country's economy. Tourism is so important, it's both a revenue-enhancing industry and a job-building industry that provides both creative and foreign currency inputs. That's why we're standing on it so much, it's actually sitting on the Earth. For example, at the G-20 meeting, for example, it was discussed and discussed as a subject of sustainable tourism. Dear lawmakers, according to the World Tourism Barometer 2011 Report, the number of international tourists is 980 million. Our share in this cake is 3%. 3% is unacceptable to Turkey, which must be expanded and must be increased to at least 4 per cent in the short term. Mr. President, I asked Mr. Secretary a question, and in response to that question, I actually felt the need to take that statement, which, in his speech, might not have been so important if it weren't for the potential he had expressed in his response. Gaziantep is a very important city, in fact, as far as its cultural assets are concerned. Therefore, we propose that a master's master's plan first in Gaziantep (Ghaziantep) and that this plan be expanded and handled at the level of the basin. That's what we think, that's what all the NGOs we meet at Gaziantep want. You know, we have a tourist association in Gaziantep, that's what he wants, that's what the trade room wants. Mr. Secretary, you've given a bit of a general response, you've stated that there are master plans in all the provinces, but that's a general statement. I assume you'll make a plan within Gaziantep and its territory. Now, you know that Gaziantep, all of Gaziantep, is not in GAP, but in part. And in your speech, Mr. Secretary, you stated that, as you know, Antwerp has a minister, Minister of Family and Social Policy. My friends gave me notes, and there's a joint study going on with the Minister. The GAP Administration also has a master's plan, which is also supported. You said. Now, we're proud to have Mr. Fatma Şahin. We're happy to have Fatma Şahin. But Mr. Fatma Şahin, as you pointed out, is the Minister of Family and Social Policy and a member of Gaziantep, like us. As well as Mr. Fatma Şahin should be informed of the state affairs of Gaziantep, as well as of the opposition lawmakers, should be informed at that time. Mr. Fatma Şahin himself can make an effort, and we can support it, but if the Ministry is planning a tourism project with Mr. Hawke, if he's doing a tourism study, as opposition lawmakers, I think we should be aware of it and make the necessary contribution. I forgot to say it at the beginning of my words, and I pray for the mercy of Abdurrahim Karakoch, my condolences and patience to his relatives. Mr. Minister, again, Gaziantep is important for tourism, tourism is an important sector, so a master's master's plan for tourism in Gaziantep and Gaziantep, in the basin of Gaziantep, needs to be made, an important destination, and it will contribute to both the economy of Gaziantep and the economy of Turkey. Thank you. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0096par0268	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. MADDE 3- (1) The tourist guide title is earned by accepting the job and is sought for the following conditions for accepting the job. A) becoming a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. B) Being 18 years old as of the application date. C) After graduating from the university's tourist guidance departments at least at the bachelor level, or from other departments outside the tourist guidance department of universities, with the joint proposals of the troops and the Turkish Travel Agencies Association and the needs of the tourism sector under the approval of the Ministry, successfully complete the country's or regional tourist guidance programme under the supervision and supervision of the Ministry under its supervision and supervision. In one of the joint proposals of the Union of the Union of Travel Agencys and foreign languages established by the Ministry's approval, it is to have one of the foreign language competencies set by the Ministry to be successful in the foreign language examination or by regulation, which the Ministry will perform under supervision or supervision or under the supervision of public institution or organisations. D) Finishing an application tour organised by the Union under the supervision and supervision of the Ministry and succeeding in the examination at the end of the trip. e) Crimes against constitutional order and the functioning of this order, crimes against national defence, crimes against state secrets and espionage, extortion, bribery, fraud, fraud, abuse of trust, fraud, misdemeanor, tampering with the state's security, conspiracy against the state's security, conspiracy against the criminality of crime, fraud against national defence, crimes against state secrets and espionage, corruption, corruption, fraud, fraud, abuse, misdemeanor, misdemeanor, misdemeanor, misdemeanor of crime, misdemeanor of crime, misdemeanor of crime, fraud of crime against national defenses, crimes against state secrets, crimes against state secrets, corruption, and non-responsories, and non-contenmentalism, and non-constitutionation of culture. F) Being unemployed before. (2) The application for employment is applied to the Ministry. The ministry conducts the necessary examinations within 30 days, organises the registration if it accepts the application, and informs the applicants on grounds of the rejection of the application, as well as on grounds. (3) Those who have been accepted into the profession despite the fact that they have not been accepted into the profession, those who have been convicted of a crime that prevents admission to the profession, and those who have been prevented from working, are dismissed by the Ministry's decision. We've got a congressman in the QA system. Here you are, Mr. Eryilmaz.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0097par0287	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, today our citizens in Hatay have been deprived of this opportunity, while treasures are available to our citizens almost everywhere in Turkey. Isn't it unfair to our citizens, on the one hand, to ban the sale of treasured land to our citizens, who have farmed and nursed these lands for years, and planted them, and built many of them, and on the other hand, to have laws that allow us to sell property to foreigners? How do you explain this contradiction? Do you intend to change the legislation that prohibits the sale of treasured land to our citizens in Hatay?
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0098par0291	Thank you, Mr. Eryilmaz. Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0099par0293	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the District of Fourdivan is very close to Ankara. In 2003, along with 24 forest management departments, our Fourdivan Forest Management Directorate was shut down. Although the State Department cancelled this operation in 2006 -- 13 forest business managers have been opened -- the Fourdivan Forest Business Directorate can't be opened only because of the Minister's arbitrary attitude, despite the court's decision. I'd like to ask you if you have any idea how to fix this situation.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0100par0296	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. Mr. Acar, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0101par0298	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I just didn't get an answer to my questions about the 2016 EXPO. I'd like to make a brief statement: The planned process of this EXPO will have a very positive effect on Isparta and Burdur. The nature that exists in Antalya and in these regions, ecology-based tourism, will have a huge acceleration. There will be significant changes in the region, especially socially and ecologically, within the scope of this process. The Botany-themed EXPO 2016 is expected to be built over 100 hectares in Antalya, and to be joined by about 100 countries and nearly 40 nations, and to visit Antalya, where 8-10 million people will visit for six months during the EXPO. It will also be held in Antalya, where 60 members of the International Union of Garden Plants will attend. At least 20,000 social, cultural events are planned during the six months period. The work must not focus only on the city of Antalya to organise the 2016 EXPO. Before 2016, the country's and regional transport infrastructures must improve the EXPO (EXPO), Antalya-Ankara speed trains, road transports and airports, especially for the spread to the region and the country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's got to be a law in order for all of this to be finished. Minister, I've told you twice, why isn't this law passed, and why isn't it removed?
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0102par0306	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0103par0308	Thank you. Mr. President -- I've said it in my speech, but now that the Undersecretary is here -- it's becoming very common in the Mediterranean District, especially in recent years. Yeah, that's where I'm telling you, in case you get any information. Now, it's becoming so common and there's a random configuration. In our district, Adana, from Pozant to Karaisan, from Aladağ, Feke, Saimbeyli, and to Hurlbeyli, there is a busy plateau in all our counties. Now, I want to know if you're thinking of doing any real work, any plan, about this crosswalking -- this is a fact -- about crosswalking -- and I want to know if you're developing a plan. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0104par0311	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0105par0313	Thank you, Mr. President. In the villages of Körencik and Chopuk, Bolu. For nearly a year, many animal deaths have occurred due to the collapse of the nervous system, the paralysis of animals, the paralysis of cattle and small head animals. In fact, because of these deaths, there were almost no animals left in those villages. That's where our Minister lives, and they know about it. As a result of the superficial examination of this subject, they tied it to a very, very long-standing weed in that region, but even the Department of Agriculture doesn't believe it, let alone the villagers. There is a widespread belief in the region that it was caused by a transmitter belonging to Turkcell, located on Lake Göynuk. Can you at least work on stopping this transmitter's activity for a month so that you can address that concern?
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0104par0315	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0106par0317	First of all, Mr. President, lawmakers, there are issues that we can't answer, of course, that are not directly related to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, but also not to the Ministry of National Defense, for example, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, and the Ministry of Agriculture. So it will be delivered to them in writing. However, with the EXPO (exPO) in Antalya, the draft law on 2016 has now been opened on the Council of Ministers. So, our Minister of Agriculture's note comes from the right place, the right place. Hopefully this will come out soon. Another one, about the transmitters... so it's not proven by a very precise scientific study, by how much a cell phone transmitter has done to your health or how much it's done to you. I think people are definitely, without a bit of scientific basis, governed by their fears and reacting accordingly. But what I do know is that if there's any danger, it's on TV, so please stay away from TV. The biggest danger is on computers, and the biggest danger is on these cell phones. If you don't drop these cell phones for 24 hours, wherever you're going, it's the biggest danger, 10,000 times more dangerous than the other one, 3,000 times more dangerous. And the fact that there's a transmitter out there by itself certainly doesn't pose a radiation hazard. When does the danger begin? If there is, after we start talking. Know that when these transmitters move out of the city centers, then the damage is even greater than it should come with higher frequencies. But, you know, sometimes perception gets in the way of the truth, and unfortunately, since this perception is in front of the truth here, is there anything that can happen if he gets out of the city and his month's work, as in this case, is stopped? There's something called -- a technical damage -- I'm saying this on purpose -- as a friend of yours who's already done the Ministry of Transport and has been in the Ministry of Transport, and I'm saying, please, let's honor scientific reports. We have faith, the end of the road that is not known is dark. I certainly believe that. And from everyone else, please, let's honor the scientific reports. Another thing is, I'm going to ask the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism again, and we'll tell them exactly when we get it from him. Is it true that during a time of selling property to strangers, the sale of treasured land to our own citizens should be prevented? It's definitely not true. The citizen of this country has the right to whatever rights he has in Istanbul, from the east to the west, and whatever right he has in Haqkari, and whatever right he has in Hatay, he has in Artvin. So I'm going to pass this on to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. Another thing: the Forest Business Bolt has been closed by court order in Fourdivan, it can't be opened or opened even after a court order. Court decisions require respect, law enforcement requires that, respect for the law requires that. A friend of ours just told us, so we need to trust the judges, we need to trust the court. Legislature, execution, judgment, one of the three organs that constitute the state, if you pull this foot, this government will not survive. So...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0107par0323	Despite the court order, the Minister...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0106par0324	If the Minister did such a thing, he didn't do it right, but we know that at the point of respect for the law, our Council of Ministers is the most respectful of the Council of Ministers. Those who don't do it have a criminal responsibility and a moral responsibility, so you're obliged to pay moral compensation. So I'm going to tell the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs about this, and I'm going to make sure you get the right information. Again, as he said, the transportation infrastructure for the EXPOFF in Antalya needs to be done. Congressman, you know as well as I do that the airport in Antalya is now an airport in Turkey, which is unique in Turkey -- I'm telling you this on purpose -- an airport where two planes land at the same time, two planes can take off at the same time. In Turkey, you can call it İstanbul Yeşilköy, call it Sabiha Gökçen, call it GAP Airport, whatever you want to call it, it's an airport like this... so Antalya doesn't need a second airport. I say this for the Centre, but there is no need for a new airport, except for Gazipaşa - or, as he says, the other side of Kash. The region of Fethiye also benefits from Dalaman Airport. Small aircraft may also be able to land at Gazipaşa Airport. Besides, transportation infrastructure needs to be done. For God's sake, we think Bakili Bey is working very well. Besides, Mr. MHP President said that during the election period, we would look at the archives, and Kılıçdaroglu said, in order to deliver one right, look everywhere you go, even when I come from another country, from America, we look at the roads of our country and say, "God bless those who do this road." Thus, not only Antalya, but the infrastructure of all four parts of Turkey is being done at this time, and it will be done further. Is it all over? I'm not saying it's a rose, we've done a lot of things in a little while; there's still time, and there's a lot of things we need to do.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0108par0326	I'm talking about the railroad.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0106par0327	The railroad, it's true, and the railroad projects are being drawn, and I'm saying that again on purpose. Hopefully, at any point in Turkey... but we don't know when it will happen, if you can save resources, hopefully -- that's what it is in Spain -- you'll have to reach a fast train station within an hour of transportation.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0109par0328	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. Performance of the profession, membership in the room and occupational records MADDE 4- (1) The profession can be carried out in the form of a free profession under the procedure and basis specified in this article, or in accordance with Article 22/5/2003 and Article 4857. (2) One of the rooms established in the district of the tourist guides is required to belong to one of the nearest boroughs, unless a room is established in the municipality of residence. The Ministry determines which rooms can register tourist guides in which cities. Tourist guides don't belong in more than one room. Tourist guides must have received a license and not lost the terms of admission. (3) The name, last name and registration numbers of active and inactive tourist guides are published on the official website of the association. The profession can only be performed by active tourist guides. In order to be an active tourist guide, a working card valid for a year is required. A working card is not given to those who have lost accession conditions or failed to fulfill their obligations to the room. Tourist guides who have made a written statement to remain either a working card or a non-actional tourist guide are registered as non-actional tourist guides. Non-actional tourist guides cannot vote in the elections of their bodies and cannot serve in those organs. In order to become active tourist guides for eight consecutive years, they must succeed in taking the ministry's examination. (4) Action tourist guides will pay no more than 20 per cent of the gross monthly minimum wage set for those over sixteen years old. Inactional tourist guides pay a fifth of the dues paid by active tourist guides. Tourist guides pay the annual room dues set by the relevant unit to the room where they are members in two equal installments. Non-payment dues are collected according to general provisions, along with legal interest. All non-existent dues are determined by the Union. (5) The profession is carried out only in accordance with law and professional ethics in Turkish, if foreign languages or regulations are permitted on the work card alone. Tourist guides cannot engage in any activities or actions that are incompatible with professional honor and reputation. In its execution, Turkey's cultural, tourism, history, environment, nature, social and so forth, and its assets are based on the ministry's cultural and tourism policies. Occupational ethics are determined by regulations. (6) Tourist guides can only provide tourist guidance services, provided they do not provide services that include tours, packages tours, transports or accommodation, and can make advertising and introductions in accordance with regulations and principles set out to show their qualifications and attributes to the profession. (7) Occupational records are kept by the rooms and records are reported to the relevant unit without delay. The Union creates a database and submits this database to the Ministry's use. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. Disciplinary sentences and investigation procedures The following disciplinary measures apply to tourist guides who do not carry out their profession in accordance with the laws of the Law and who do not abide by the rules of the profession and ethical principles. A) Warning is a written notification to the tourist guide that the practice should be more careful. The warning penalty is given in the following instances. 1) The absence of a work card or a tourist guidance contract while performing a profession. 2) The apparent removal of a work card while performing a profession. B) The punishment is a written report to the tourist guide, where you acted imperfectly in performing your profession. The punishment for contempt is given in the following cases. 1) Taking a job by misleading the consumer. 2) The quality of the verb and its consequences are that the work be carried out in violation of the commitment in situations where it does not require a severe disciplinary penalty. 3) A violation of professional ethics. 4) Without contracting tourist guidance or under-strength work. 5) The execution of a verb that requires a second warning in six months from the date of the warning sentence. C) A temporary suspension is the ban of the tourist guide to perform the profession from a month to a year. A temporary suspension from the profession is granted in the following cases. 1) It is dated 14/9/1972 and the change of the time and route of the tour, without the right or necessity, to remain in the third bounds of Article 30 of Travel Agencies Association Law. 2) Avoiding giving information on authorities' audits. 3) The concealment of the truth, lying or missing information. 4) The intentional damage to tourist groups or tourist companies. 5) The act of unfair speech and actions or travel agency, which would damage the trust and reputation of tourism to tourism, or to tourism institutions, executives, employees, or professions. 6) The execution of the profession, with legal exceptions reserved, without a work card or outside the language or languages listed on the work card. 7) Regional tourist guides operate as tourist guides outside their territory. 8) The prevention of elections in accordance with this Law and according to this Law. 9) Twice in the same year. The penalty for dismissal is the removal of the license and the removal of the tourist guide title and the removal of the tourist guide's membership. The penalty for dismissal is given in the following cases. 1) In the interests of the country and in violation of national honor, there will be word and deed. 2) The two-time travel agency activity. 3) The title of tourist guide is determined by court order that a crime has been committed or helped to be committed using a license or a work card. 4) The use of false documents or false statements of occupational work and transactions. 5) The processing of verbs that require temporary suspension from the profession in five years from the time of the first verb of temporary suspension. 6) The discovery of twice the service of tourist guidance without a working card, including legal exceptions. (2) Information on temporary bans or dismissals is reported to the Turkish Travel Agency without delay by the Union of Travel Agents of Turkey. (3) The board of directors of the room, which requires a warning and reprimand, is launched into disciplinary investigation by the association disciplinary committee on the application of the council of the Union or the chamber board, in the verbs of members of the room and unit bodies that require a temporary suspension and dismissal of the profession. A disciplinary investigation will be concluded within a year of the fission being reported to the relevant unit. Other procedures and principles regarding disciplinary investigations are organised by regulations. There's a question-answer, lawmakers who've entered the system. Mr. Eryilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0110par0373	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are serious allegations that tens of thousands of state-owned land in the tourist destinations of Antalya, Kadriya, Belk, Boskent, have been disbursed and prepared to be sold to foreigners. Is it true that such a study was done? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0111par0376	Thank you, Mr. Eryilmaz. Mr. Keskin...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0112par0378	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, this year the vineyards have been severely damaged because of the hailing in Buldan district of Denizli. In the South and Bekilli districts, the grape vines were dried up because of the cold rising at minus 27 degrees this year. In this regard, the county agricultural director has made his report to your ministry doing the necessary work. So I made a question proposal. So far, no questions have been answered. Is there a ministryal study on this subject, or is it on what level? Will any help be done to the damaged farmers? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0113par0381	Thank you, Mr. Keskin. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0114par0383	Thank you, Mr. President. I can't get an answer to my question. Now the tourism with this bow, especially in Tekir, where there is a very dense population, from Pozant to Nuts, Alpu, Hamidiya, Dağdibi, Çiçbekirli, from Red Mountain to Horzum. Will you have any study of these potentials related to crossbow tourism? My second question: especially in spring and summer, our municipalities organise cultural events. You've been supporting this place in the past few years. He hasn't been given to our municipality recently, and he's been told he's been removed. Is there a power-Muslim distinction here? And the third question is, we have Akçakir. The population of this place reaches 250,000 in the summer when it's 23,000 in winter, so it's all tourism, crossbow tourism. With this money coming in, there's no way you can handle it. Can you offer a solution or contribute to this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0115par0388	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0116par0390	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'm afraid the inner roads of the municipalities on the Basement Peninsula cannot be fixed, it can't be fixed, there are pits, the roads are not suitable for the tourist season. At the beginning of the tourist season, is there a particularly supportive study by the Bank of Provinces? The issue of waste and solid waste in the basement peninsula has not been solved for four years for bureaucratic reasons. At the beginning of the tourist season, the subject of new fires in the basement waste collection area and the control of the mud stream will be on the agenda. What are you going to do about it as a ministry? Do you have a study of the gathering of solid waste, bilges, about 1,500 boats on the blue cruise in the Gulf of Gökova? Most of the liquid waste treatment facilities found in the Basement Peninsula are not fully operational. Thus, sea pollution is increasing. What do you intend to do about the inspections of these treatment facilities?
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0117par0394	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, Mr. Eryılmaz himself answered the question about the sale of property to foreigners, especially about this 2/B. He said there were rumors. We, of course, have nothing to do with the rumors, not to make an assessment. After all, it's called a rumor.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0118par0398	Is there a study, Mr. Secretary? It's about work, the issues set in the law, whatever it is, it's about it. That's public knowledge. As for the question that Mr. Keskin was asking about the hailing in Buldan: You know, the full damage has been covered by insurance since 1 June 2006, and the producers who have had agricultural insurance, half of the insurance policy price since 2006, so we pay as support, so let's say, citizens, if they're insuranceing the garden for $500, we're paying 250 lira for it, for free, for free. In this way, the number of insurance policies increases every day, and it's full, and it's the most important, in terms of all the risks that have been supported from the beginning; of course, other disasters, such as hail, dons, et cetera. And here, of course, we care that it's covered by insurance about the hailing. So when damage assessments arrive, after they arrive, there's something else that can be done other than that, for example, if there's something that can be done within the scope of Law 2090, they're already being evaluated. I'd like to submit it to the information of our Congressman. The questions of Mr. Demir and Mr. Yilmaz have been mentioned in Adana: Of course, a price of grass has been removed here to make it especially a tourist area for the mera.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0119par0402	It's not Mera, Mr. Secretary, it's not mera. It's about the plateau, but it's the same thing. Yayla and mera are different, so don't confuse the bow with the mera. GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEDI EKER (Diyarbakır) is used as Mera. No, not at all. Yes, yes, it's used as a mera. Mr. Secretary, you're giving false information. You asked questions, we're answering questions. But don't give false information, so if you don't know, ask the Adana MPs. If you already knew the answer, why did you ask? You ask a question, I answer you, you like it, you don't like it, it's your appreciation, it's something else. Let's get this straight, General Assembly. What does the crosswalk have to do with it? The information we're giving is true. It's a bald answer! Here, studies are being carried out by our Ministry, including crossbow tourism, about the diversification of tourism and the spread of the year. You will also be answered in detail and especially in regard to that area. Of course, there are activities here that each organization has to do on its own field of duty, especially for municipalities involved in municipal borders, and the intermediaries are already doing their own work on this matter, under its own schedule. Regarding specific situations, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism provides the necessary support for the project when it is applied to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in exchange for it from time to time. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0120par0418	We've got a little more time. Mr. Keskin, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0121par0420	Mr. President, I don't think Mr. Secretary understands the second part of my question. I asked not only about Buldan, but also about the drying of the vines in the south -- the bell, the Bekilli -- but also about the vines in the south. I know about TARSIM, too, but the vines of these bonds are unfortunately not covered by TARSIM, and there is no insurance in the trees under TARSIM. In these three counties, the grape vines of 9,000 manufacturers are completely dry, which must be removed and replaced with new ones. There's serious damage. There's a report from the agricultural county department on this. I don't think our Minister knows anything about this. So, if he has information, does the Department of Agriculture at least have an initiative?
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0120par0421	Thank you, Mr. Keskin. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, our deputy, of course, has spoken about the hail, especially the matter of Buldan. Of course, the other, for example, the damage to the cold, the cold, the cold, the frosting, all of the damage to the frost, all of the damage to the Ministry, as a result, comes with a report, and it's 2090... and I just said, well, you probably missed it, and I said: other things that are under insurance related to the Dolu, but other than that, if there's an application in the framework of Law 2090, there's an application that's going to be done about it when reports come about it, so if the bond, the vine rods, it's going to be replaced, it's going to be replaced with something else, I guess, I said, I said, we'll give insurance, or we'll give it to the ministry, but we'll certainly need to help, but there'll have to be a bill, of course, but there'll have to be some kind of course, if there's something that can be some kind of service. If he's within the scope, the assessment is done accordingly, and if he's not, we'll give the citizens and farmers the necessary explanations. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. MADDE 6- (1) The price tariff is determined by the Ministry on a net fee, with the views of the Turkish Travel Agency and the Turkish Travel Agency, and is declared by the Ministry in December at the latest, under the provisions of Article 298 of Tax Utilisation Act 213, dated 4/1/1961, and in accordance with the provisions of Article 213, and shall be determined and declared not less than the number of revaluements declared. (2) Tourist guides cannot provide tourist guidance at the price set at the base price rate. Social and public-quality tourist guidance services, which can be worked under the base fee, are determined by regulations. (3) Tourist guides are required to sign a written tourist guide contract with the fee set for the tour. A contract can be made in e-mails, faxes, phone messages, and so on, as long as the right reasons are arranged in writing. (4) Tourist guide, who does not sign a written contract for the tour or works for a price under the base fee, is fined by the relevant union with the same amount of administrative fine as being separate for each verb, saving income for the union budget and not under the three-day basis fee for the tour. We have MPs entering the system to answer questions. Mr. Reminder, here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0122par0435	Thank you, Mr. President. As in many other districts of Çankırı Province, Central district, the military branches are closed, the five-nation presidency is about to be cancelled, as well as the courthouse will be closed. With this courthouse closed down, Central County will become truly unbearable for our tradesmen and for the locals there, and they will face enormous economic difficulties. Middle will no longer be a county and become a village. Is there anything we can do about it? I'd like to ask our government about their reasons. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0123par0438	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0124par0440	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask our minister, of course, not about the agenda, but about agriculture in particular. We have harvesters in the area now, but we don't have grain purchase prices yet. When will you know? That's one. And I've submitted a written question motion before. Some of the money paid to farmers for supporting this product -- which was paid in the region of Şanlıurfa and Adıyaman in 2007 -- was intended to be taken back from farmers, and some even applied. Have you found a solution to this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0125par0444	Thank you, Mr. Firat. Mr. Keskin...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0126par0446	Mr. President, I don't find the Minister's answers satisfactory. I repeat: One: the vines of the vineyards are dry. Reports on this matter have been in the Ministry for 20 days. Two: Me and Justice and Development Party MP Mehmet Yüksel spoke outside the agenda ten days ago. Three: I have submitted a written question motion on this matter. When the Minister answers to me, he says, "If the reports have come to me, let's go." I'm saying these reports are in progress, and I'm asking if a concrete step has been taken. Four: The Minister was also presented with a report made by the heads of this room when he visited the heads of the agricultural chambers in this region, along with the head of the Agriculture Rooms, but the Minister does not need to give a proper or reasonable answer in this matter, and he talks to me about agricultural insurance. Farm insurance is within our knowledge. There's a flaw in the arrangement of the tree-related agricultural insurance. Even if the manufacturer wanted to buy his tree under agricultural insurance, because of legal difficulties, agriculture...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0127par0453	Thank you, Mr. Keskin. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0128par0455	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Secretary, I didn't get enough answers about the four questions I asked, and you didn't say you'd deliver them in writing. I'd appreciate it if you'd answer those questions. Furthermore, the Gulf is contaminated because it is not enough to control the waste of yachts that come to the Gulf of Mandarin. What measures will you take on this matter? In addition, other Gulfs of Fethiye and Mugla have issued a marine pollution alarm, and in many places the blue flag is raised. What is your ministry's work on this matter? It's a very important matter, really. Our seas are rapidly getting dirty. What are your studies on this subject? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0129par0460	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0130par0462	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: we have 171 villages in the centre of Kastamon. In our villages, 155 villages, especially because of the extreme winter conditions, our farmer suffered a significant loss due to the frosting incident in the fields, which had been identified by the Agricultural County Directorate. Is the support given to potato manufacturers in particular considered to be given to these grain-planters recently? Because one of the victims of this is that at the agricultural insurance point, they don't understand the losses of any product prices. Is there any study of that?
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0131par0465	Thank you, Mr. Chanar. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. Question about the courthouse in Çankırı Middle County. Dear lawmakers, whether or not the branches of public institutions or some services are found anywhere, is all about the need and the service that will be produced there, the community that is expecting that service. So this, where there's no need, has to reach a certain number of operations, a certain number of files, where, according to the nature of the service, there's a building, an institution, if it's a courthouse, if it's a court, if it's a military branch... after all, these services are evaluated by the institution concerned that they can be done in a very nearby place, if they're being reported in that way, based on the need. Sometimes the actual population or the number of transactions there, the number of files, does not make it possible for the public benefit to continue that service there. That's what the regulations are all about. As for the grain, of course, Turkey currently has a harvest in about 2-3 per cent. We're taking escrow, like we did in the previous years. At every needed point in Turkey, the branches of the Earth crop office are currently in the form of procurement. Of course, there hasn't been anything in the market yet to actually create a price. At the moment, the products of the desired manufacturers, who want them to be free of the producer's victimhood, are also in escrow. That's what we did last year. We're tracking the market, and when it gets to a certain point in terms of the manufacturer, we never give the manufacturer a chance. In previous years, we continued this practice. In 2007-08, of course, the thing is, when we make our agricultural support payments, the legal issue is that if one person is found in violation of the law, unfairly supported by a court order or other legislation related to it, it is within the law to collect it from him. Other than that, no government has made any illegal demands from anyone else. So if it's already been obtained illegally, by some sort of irregularity, by a false document or something like that, then, of course, when it's detected, it's taken. That's the application here, except there's no other application. And as of today, it's over 4.5 billion of our 2012 apps. Lastly, I believe, by tomorrow, about $650 million in fatty seeds and other support payments in some areas will be in the account of our farmers. Of course, the blue flag continues to apply. A green flag for environmentally sensitive businesses is also under way. Of course, there are many issues concerning Bodrum, which Mr. Demir..... that require a lot of detailed answers, which will also be reported to him in writing. Again, of course, the report is done according to what Mr. Keskin asked several times. But I've told you that we can legally do, if it's covered by insurance, if it's not under insurance, then there will be the necessary assessments under Act 2090, and there will be payment for the right-owning farmers. As for the damage to the frost, so is Kastamon, and, of course, the underwear is also covered by insurance and insurance... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And when we have reached the end of our term, I will give you an additional moment; so go ahead and fulfill your promise. Our producers, who have been damaged here as well as the same amount of insurance, and if they have an application -- so those who are damaged from the underwear are considered under insurance, but if they don't have an application -- for example, there was something like this on the potato, and we've already issued a decision on the potato manufacturer to pay about 200 lira a head. Thank you. Thank you. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 6th article is accepted. MADDE 7- (1) Tourist guidance services are provided only by tourist guides. Those who are carried out in other adjectives or titles are employed under the Law to carry out any services that are a tourist guide. It is not necessary to have a tourist guide guide in the official activities of public institutions and organisations, if a public official with a permit is assigned. (2) In addition to the scope of this Law, training programmes that would qualify for tourist guidance cannot be organised or issued. Those who act contrary to this ruling will receive administrative fines from the five thousand Turkish liras to the fifteen thousand Turkish liras, with the weight of the verb taken into account by the Ministry. The way these verbs are processed creates an occupational barrier. (3) Those who offer tourist guidance without a permit will not be accepted into office in a repeat of this verb. (4) Those who practice the verbs prohibited in the second joke and offer tourist guidance, whether temporarily banned or removed from the profession, are banned by the Union or by the authorities of the relevant property, and the situation is reported to the Public Prosecutor's Office within three days at the latest. (5) Tourist guidance providers from non-actional tourist guides are fined by the Ministry for 1,500 Turkish liras with administrative fines. (6) The administrative fines issued under this Law are collected within a month of the date of the notification. In cases where there are no provisions in this law, provisions of administrative fines are carried out dated 30/3/2005 and Law of Offenses 5326. (7) In connection with tourist guidance services, any audit envisioned in this Law is conducted by the Ministry or occupational organisations within the framework of the procedures and foundations set by regulations. If needed for co-operation in the audits or requested by the Turkish Travel Agency, you can receive a representative from the Turkish Travel Agencies Association. The ministry and occupational organisations receive help from law enforcement when necessary. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 7th article is accepted. The qualifications, establishment, and tasks of occupational institutions MADDE 8- (1) With the regulations to carry out the tasks stated in this Law and to use the powers and to be the upper body of the rooms and to be a public institutional institutional institutional association can be established on the application of rooms with a total number of occupational members registered throughout Turkey to the Ministry. There can be more than one professional union. The procedures and foundations related to the application are organised by regulations. (2) In each district, where at least one hundred-fifty tourist guides live within its borders, 33% of the total number of occupations registered in that province can be established with a legal personality and a public institutional organisation based on the application of the governorship. The centers of the rooms are where they are established. There can be more than one room in the same county. The area of authority of the rooms is geographically determined by the Ministry, considering nearby provinces and working areas. However, regional rooms, which are a public institutional institutional institution, can be established by the Ministry after applying for at least 50 tourist guides' asylum centre in non-room cities. The rooms are members of the union. The rooms, which have been registered in 50 or in the province, fall below at least 20 per cent of the total number of tourist guides, if the situation continues at the end of six months since it was determined; the rooms, which have given the financial balance balance of the balance of the second bank in two years in a row, are closed by the decision of the relevant union board, and are transferred to the relevant property. Regional rooms are subject to verdicts on rooms. (3) The duties and powers of occupational organisations are: a) meeting the joint needs of its members and facilitating their professional activities. B) ensure that the profession is implemented and improved in accordance with general interests and national tourism and advertising policies. C) To establish integrity and confidence in the functioning of the profession with professional and public relations; to maintain professional ethics and discipline; to take necessary measures to prevent unfair competition between tourist guides; to organise courses, seminars and training programmes for the development of tourist guides; and to conduct vocational studies and studies. ) To make an opinion on matters requested by the ministry. D) Fulfilling the duties set out in this Law and related legislation. (4) The Union can transfer power to the rooms, provided it clearly determines its borders. (5) The Union's governing body can open a diplomatic mission in non-room cities or allow the rooms to open a diplomatic mission if they demand it. (6) Occupational organisations can operate in cooperation with private or official institutions in the tourism sector when necessary. (7) The ministry takes necessary measures by co-operating with trade institutions to ensure that all related activities are carried out within the framework of the procedures and principles set out in these laws and related legislation, and to prevent it from being carried out in violation of the legislation. (8) The Union can be a member of national and international organisations related to its field of activity. (9) A vocational organisation cannot be established except under the laws of the Law. There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the Tourist Guidance Law Bill be changed in the following way. The Union of Guide Rooms of Turkey, which is a public institution and a professional organisation, has the legal personality to do the tasks set out in this Law and to use the powers and to be the upper body of the rooms. Prof. Dr. Haluk Eyidoğan Yıdırı Aydırı sapın Sakine Öz Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan İdris Yıldız Doğan Şaş Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who's gonna talk? You want me to read the motive?
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0132par0523	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0131par0524	I'm reading the reason: This clause, which allows for the establishment of more than one professional union of public institutions and occupational institutions, will go on to lose its ability to be "university" in the profession and solution proposals that are necessary, as the units first vary in applications. A professional union that does not represent all guides, where only a number of guides are represented piece by piece by different units, will not be able to continue its activity actively and efficiently, nor will it be long-term. The formation of more than one unit across the country will make institutions cumbersome, as a constant search for consensus. There is no other example in our country. I submit to your votes this motion that I have given you, that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 8th article is accepted. MADDE 9- (1) The Ministry has the authority to oversee all jobs, transactions, activities and accounts of occupational organisations. Companies are obliged to provide and display any information during inspection. We have deputies in the system for QA. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0133par0534	Thank you, Mr. President. When I asked him a moment ago, he said, "We're transferring funds to these cultural events." But our City of Posant was not transferred and the answer was rejected. I want to know the reason for this is because it's from the National Movement Party? A second question, Mr. Minister, is that the exports of cherry products in Aladağ, Saimbeyli, especially the Bosphorus, Pozantı, are growing. But every year, the cherry producers are seriously victimised by high input costs, as well as by certain wholesalers. I want to know if there's a solution to this, if there's any way to contribute. And my third question is, especially in our Adana region, at the point of the thali products, from Feke, to Saimbeyli, from Karaisan to Kozan, from Pozanti Aladağ, in a very intense way, and in the world, these disposable products are rising. At this point, by collaborating with the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, it's a very serious assessment of...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0134par0539	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0135par0541	Mr. Secretary, I've just asked the Secretary of Defense a question about his own subject, his own Ministry. He said you'd answer that question. As he asked, he replied, "Yes. Now, Petty Officer Abdullah Spazceler and Special Sergeant's Mind Coach has been in the hands of the terrorist organization for three hundred and thirty days. Again, Kenan Erenoğlu has been in the hands of police officer Nadir Özgen for two hundred and seventy days. What kind of work do you do on this subject? What are your efforts to rescue these government officials, the governor, the police officer, and the soldiers? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0136par0544	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0137par0546	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the courthouse buildings in Istanbul have been merged in three major regions. As of this month, it will be the Eagle Courthouse, where the Anatolian Side meets. The Eagle Courthouse may be suitable for that area, but for the entire Anatolian Side, for example, for Kadıköy, for Beykoz, for Baseküdar, for Chile, it's highly inappropriate. There was an area reserved for the court in Kadıköy, in Hasanpaşa, at the place of the Tuesday market. Unfortunately, this place was not court-martialed, so the court moved to Eagle. They're also considering an Imam orator high school. We especially want your government to attempt to make this area smaller, because there will be great difficulties for our citizens and employees, and there will be great problems for moving to Eagle. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0138par0549	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0139par0551	Mr. Secretary, there's a significant amount of nuts in the silos of the Earth crop office. Is the financial situation of Do you plan to balance supply and demand by handing out free nuts to poor families in schools so that you don't lower the price of this nut which is extremely important to our people in our East Black Sea District, the Army, and the Giresun? And since 2004, the UAV tenders have not been held by open tenders, they're being negotiated and given to the same company. That money was worth about 100 trillion liras. Do you think there will be an investigation into the non-official tender? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0140par0555	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. Mr. Keskin...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0141par0557	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, this year's 2011 cotton manufacturers have suffered enormous losses, and the bonuses haven't been paid yet. Are the bonuses expected to increase? When will bonuses, export bonuses be paid? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0142par0560	Thank you, Mr. Keskin. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President. A statement was made concerning the City of Posance that the funds were not being transferred because of their parties? That's not true, of course, it's not possible, because in our administration period in particular, unlike previous governments, cuts, legal cuts -- including debt cuts -- for all municipalities, the power-migration is done the same way and the basis for all of them without realizing it. Hence, such discrimination among municipalities is never in question. Of course, what is being done here is based on the project, apart from benefits and allocations, grants, legalities. The incoming projects are being evaluated, and that assessment is based on it. The festival application is rejected because it is not in accordance with regulations, because it is not in accordance with procedure, it is against regulations. Infrastructure project, evaluation and support continue by the end of the year. It's possible to reassess, it's in a different way, and it's also going to be evaluated. Now, what Mr. Akar is doing about the people that this terrorist organization has kidnapped. Of course, here, all the relevant institutions, one of the abductions -- one of the district heads of my county, the mayor of my party -- are related to them...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0143par0567	There are people who were kidnapped a long time before that. It's been a year. Which ones are they? Of course, they're all related to the Turkish Armed Forces, as well as other relevant units in the fight against terrorism, security and other institutions, they're doing work, but the detail of this work, which operation is being done on which day, of course, what operation is being done, what is being done on which day, of course, what we don't have it now; they're making statements about it when relevant units need to do it, and they're already sharing it with the public. The court is particularly concerned about the establishment of smaller courts, and, of course, the effective production of services here, and the public benefit of public service, especially the collection of it at certain centers in major cities, both in cost and in the activity of service. Of course, your suggestion is that these should be done separately.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0144par0570	Smaller districts, 3-4 districts. Yes, you're suggesting it. We'll tell our relevant units that as a suggestion, they'll do their technical work. The FKB, or FİSKOBIKİLKİNKİNKİNKİNKİNKİ -- is already distributed -- if the market conditions are right, it won't harm the manufacturer or the industrialist, it won't negatively affect the system, and from time to time, the Land Mahuls Office has given what they have so far. We also gave FİSKOBIRKİLKİKİNKİNKİNKİMİMİNİNİNİNİNİNİ, which means that the FİSKOBİRKİMİLİLİLKİ, which means that the government has also sold nuts from time to time in accordance with its strategy and policy, and they sold nuts from time to time, and thus walked on the basis of the FİSKOBIRlKİRlKİKİKİKİLKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİ, which is also came and on the basis of the Fİ. Cotton bonuses, I've just said, I believe it was Mr. Keskin's question, 600 or so million dollars goes into accounts around 115 thousand on Friday. Oil seed supports, mostly cotton, are already paid every year in May-June, this year in late May, some have been paid in May, and now a large part is being paid tomorrow. An immediate payment schedule is being set for the cities that are coming in, and it has been done in connection with them. It's a question of an open bid. Of course, all the tenders are actually open under the supervision of the Public Contraction Agency. If there's any objection to this, it's already subject to the control of both the Public Contraction Agency and other institutions, the control of the law...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0145par0576	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 9th article is accepted. The bodies of vocational organisations, elections, tasks and powers MADDE 10- (1) The bodies of the rooms are the general board, the board of directors and the audit board; the bodies of the units are the general board, the board of directors, the board of directors and the disciplinary board. (2) The Chamber General Assembly consists of room-member tourist guides, which have been active for at least six months; the association is composed of delegates who will be elected to be delegates for each of its members and for each of its members for three years. In addition, the number of delegates is selected as substitute delegates to complete that term, on the basis of their selections, when the rank of delegates is lost. (3) The duties and powers of the general boards of vocational institutions are: A) Decided whether the board's report, which shows its balance sheet and past-term activities, should be read and discussed the balance sheet and the expense account, accept or reject the admission or rejection of the board's statement, and whether or not the audit board's report should be accepted by reading it, and whether or not its members of the audit board should be expressed. B) Decided whether to accept or reject an estimate of the budget drafted by the new term working programme and the board of directors. C) To authorise the board of directors to purchase or sell existing dwellings or to establish the same rights, including mortgages. ) To decide whether to establish a capital company, a co-op or a foundation, or to join the board. D) To decide whether or not to prosecute members of the body who have been charged with legal or criminal responsibility due to business, processing or activities. e) To discuss and decide the issues presented by the Governing Body. f) In regular meetings, it is necessary to bring up, or discuss, the issues proposed by one fifth of the respondents to be interviewed, taken off the agenda, or taken into consideration. g) Fulfilling the duties given by this Law and other legislation. (4) The General Assembly is called to an extraordinary meeting by the board of directors following the notarly approved application of one quarter of its members. There is no meeting at the extraordinary meeting except on the agenda of the call. Any transactions and activities related to the extraordinary meeting are conducted by the board of directors. If the Governing Body fails to carry out this mission for the right reasons, it is determined by the Ministry in the rooms where the operations and operations will be conducted by whom. (5) The working procedures and foundations of the general boards of vocational organisations are determined by regulations. (6) The procedure and the basis for the election of presidents and the formation and work of boards of directors have been shown below. A) The governing boards of vocational institutions consist of five main members, including the president. The main number of members of the chamber boards is increased by one person for each 200 tourist guides, but the main number of members of the board cannot exceed nine, including the president. The president and board members are elected for three years. B) The original and reserve members of the chamber board and members of the chamber board are selected by the chamber's committee from among the active tourist guides of the room-members, the head of the union and the original and reserve members of the union board are elected from among the general board members of the union. C) Every member has the right to run for office. The names of the candidates on the ballots are in alphabetical order. Vote ballots are duplicated with the names of candidates in square-shaped boxes to be marked next to, and are used after being sealed with the county election board seal. Votes are used by marking the number of candidates on the ballot, including the number of members or representatives. The voting process, the secret vote, is based on open booking. Professionals whose name is not on the membership list cannot vote. Votes are used after the voter was able to prove his identity with the document given by official organisations and sign the location opposite his name on the list. Votes are used to be placed in envelopes provided by the head of the polling board, with the county election board seal on them. More candidates have been marked or used with unsealed ballots and envelopes are invalid. ) The names of the candidates in the election are listed below and at the level of the valid voting names they receive. The candidates' votes are ranked from the largest to the smallest. The original and backup memberships are assigned to candidates according to the size of their numbers. If the vote is equal to the last member or representative, the name will be named among them. The boards of directors meet at least once a month. The board's membership, including the presidential title, ends in the absence of three consecutive meetings, including death, resignation, deficiencies, occupational discharge, or unexcused. In the absence of the presidency, the actual members of the board choose a president to complete their term of office. According to the selection order of the president to replace the original member, the first alternate member wins the title of primary membership. The president of the Union, elected head of the room, loses his title as head of the room. The same person can't be elected president for more than two semesters in a row. If the board of directors resigns until the election in three months, in order to ensure that the board's original or reserve members fall below the number of decisions, the rooms will be managed by the three-person board assigned by the Ministry. (7) The duties and powers of the executive boards of vocational institutions are: A) To meet the requirements of the General Assembly decisions. B) Prepare the general board agenda and call a meeting of the general council. C) To prepare annual balance sheet, operational report and estimated budget and present it to the general council. ) Transfer funds within the budget. D) authorise members who will represent the vocational institution as individual, with the president's proposal explicitly specified the boundaries. e) Doing the same rights facility and property transactions, including the purchase, sale, mortgage, under the power vested in by the General Assembly. f) Renting the premises needed for activities and rescinding the rental agreement when necessary. g) Buying or renting the transports needed for activities, selling or renting the assets. ) Control Membership procedures. h) Control the professional activities of members and assess consumer complaints. I) establish and operate social facilities. i) Fulfilling the duties given by this Law and other legislation. (8) The governing boards decide with the only majority of the full number of members. The workings and foundations of the boards are determined by regulations. (9) The procedures and bases for the creation and operation of audit boards have been shown below. A) The control boards of vocational organisations consist of three original and three reserve members selected for three years from among the relevant general board members. In their first meeting, the audit board selects a president from among its own members. The audit boards gather at least once a month and report their audit results to the board every three months and to the general council at the end of the semester. The board of audit members cease to attend three meetings in a row -- death, resignation, deficiencies, deficiencies, occupational discharge, or, without an alibi, three meetings in a row. In this case, the member who receives the most votes from the bench members is called to the post in writing. If the audit board resigns in order for its original or reserve members to fall below the majority of the board's decisions, they will be appointed by a supervisor by the Ministry together until the first General Assembly meeting. B) The audit boards conduct inspections at least a month before the usual General Assembly meeting and at other times the president will see fit. Each inspection results in an audit report. The audit report is organised only with a majority of votes in accordance with the law and fiscal rules, while opposition members must add their motives to the report. The audit reports are presented to review members of the general board at least a week before the general board meeting and read on the general board. The working and essentials of the audit boards are determined by regulations. C) (b) The audit boards report to the board that they are hesitant to comply with the law and fiscal rules, with the majority of decisions they will make, provided the provisions remain hidden. (10) The Union disciplinary board consists of three main and three additional members, who have been nominated by the candidates or members of the general board, and two original and two replacements, including two primary or legal faculty professors nominated by the members of the general board, and three additional members selected for three years by the association general board. In the event that the original members have lost their membership title, the benchmarks are selected according to the process of electing replacements. The Union disciplinary board conducts the disciplinary procedures of tourist guides within the framework of the procedures and foundations envisioned in these laws and related legislation. The Union disciplinary board decides with the only majority of full members. The Union disciplinary committee's duties, competencies and responsibilities are determined by the procedure and the basis of its work. (11) In the event of the loss of the body membership, membership, or the tourist guide title of those elected to vocational bodies. (12) Elections are conducted according to the following procedures and bases. A) The selection of organ members is conducted under secret and judicial supervision, according to the procedures written in this Law and on the basis. B) The list of those who have the right to participate in the general council is presented as three copies by the board of directors for an article stating the agenda of the meeting, the date, and at least thirty days before the meeting date, where the centre of the relevant vocational institution is located. If more than one district election board is found in one location, the municipal election board will be determined by the municipal election board. The mayor of the district election board approves the list of those who have the right to attend the general council within ten days of the application date, if necessary, after having them bring and examine the relevant records and documents. The list presented during which time was not approved is now finalized. The approved or confirmed list is announced for seven days, according to its interest, on the bulletin board at the center of the room or in the central chamber. In the same time, a written notification will be made to the rooms if elected by the Union's general boards. The district election board can be contested within three days of monitoring the notice or a written notification. The objections will be reviewed by the county election board and will be finalized within seven days at the latest. The lists that have been finalized are sent to the vocational organisation where the selection will be held. C) In the event of an election by the board of directors, the mayor of the borough election board is the centre of the vocational organisation that made the election seven days before the meeting. The judges in charge of the election are paid according to the Law on Basic Decisions of Elections 298, dated 26/4/1961 and Voter Logs. This fee and other election costs are covered by the relevant vocational organisation. D) During the election, the crimes committed against the judge or the head of the polling board or its members are considered against the public official. e) Other procedures and principles related to elections are organised in the regulation. (13) Payments to members of the occupational body are determined by regulations. (14) Tourist guides can serve only in one of the control and control of rooms, while the units can serve on one of the boards of management, control and discipline. 15) Members of the body cannot and cannot vote except for an election to organ membership, where they can attend meetings that concern themselves, their spouses, or their relatives, until the third degree. In such cases, if the majority of the meetings cannot be met, the majority of the meetings will be held by being invited by replacement members in order. (16) Occupational organisations cannot engage in any activity other than their purposes. The ministry or the institutions of these organisations, where they are located, is decided by the court of law on the basis of the request of the Republic's Attorney's Office, in order to terminate the duties of those responsible bodies of the ministry or of those who have not carried out their original duties in this Law, despite the Ministry's warnings. In place of the last body of organs, the three-person boards, which have been appointed by the Union, and the Union, shall govern the rooms until the general assembly meeting in three months at the latest, according to the procedures in these laws and relevant legislation. All legal and criminal responsibilities are reserved for members of the last organ. The austerity of the organs in this court order is nullified by the rules of this joke, which resulted in the termination of their duties. (17) Legal representatives of vocational institutions are their presidents. At the president's proposal, the board elects two vice presidents among its own members at the most. Vice presidents carry out the president's duties under the president's authority or the president's absence. The president is authorized to conduct legal procedures which legally bound the institution of employment, such as the contract and power of attorney, on behalf of the institution of employment, with the powers of the general council and the board of directors reserved. The president may decide that one of the vice presidents of this authority is to be used jointly with the signature of a member of the board or a general secretary. (18) The service units established under vocational institutions and their mandates are decided by the general council. A general secretary is appointed to conduct administrative affairs, with two assistant general secretary-in-chiefs at the most, and a general secretary-in-chief with sufficient staff. The secretary general is appointed by the chairman's proposal by the board of directors, while the assistant general secretary general is appointed by the president at the general secretary's proposal. The secretary general's job, responsibility, duties and powers are determined by the board of directors and by the secretary general's secretary general. The president may hand over to the secretary general what he considers necessary from the decisions and signatures he alone has on administrative matters. The costs of employees employed in service units are determined by the financial and social rights board. We've got deputies in the system. Mr. Akçay, come in for a question-and-answer.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0146par0634	Thank you, Mr. President. Since 19 May, geothermal eruptions have occurred in the village of Alkan and Infantry in Manisa Alaşehir district, and some 50 per cent of the bond has been severely damaged, so to speak. The people are anxious and terrified, and even at home, they have a great deal of trouble sitting down and working in their garden. Is there any study of the damage done to the citizens of this town of Alkan and the town of the Marines? More importantly, what measures are being taken against these explosions, and what work do your government and relevant institutions, ministries, do? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0147par0639	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0148par0641	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister of Food and Petting is separated, but I've asked this question in writing before. According to the Office's Official Gazette No. 27331, the province of Samsun is a 2011-based nut supporter, according to the 2009/50 declaration published in 27331. Some of our nut manufacturers in Samsun County have failed to receive their support and have been victimized by some mistakes stemming from the system. Do you plan to extend the period of payment for the field-based nut support of our nut manufacturers to compensate for this victim? Do you intend to open the system and prevent the victims from being victimized? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0149par0644	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0150par0646	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, if you don't mind, let us respond to the information we'll receive from the ministries on both matters in writing.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0151par0647	Mr. Secretary, our Minister of Energy is here. Actually, it's relevant.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0152par0648	Our Minister of Agriculture is here.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0150par0649	I mean, I don't know if that's the way it is, it's the President's will.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0153par0650	We don't have that kind of procedure, sir. Mr. Secretary is sitting here to answer questions.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0154par0651	I'm going to our congressman's.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0153par0652	You'll get your own information. You go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0155par0654	There were already two questions, and we'll answer them both in writing.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0153par0655	You will answer in writing, sir. Mr. Tanal, they're in the system. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0156par0658	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Secretary, are you planning on raising the quota for tea? If we don't raise the quota in tea, won't we cause unemployment and migration in our Black Sea District? If we increase the number of chocolate factories, wouldn't we be blocking our citizen's tea quota? How many tons of illegal tea a year does it enter our dorm? What kind of fight do you have about running away from tea? How many tons of contraband tea would have come to our country if it hadn't been fought over tea? How many tons of contraband tea are you preventing from entering the dorms because you're fighting illegal tea? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0157par0661	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0158par0663	Mr. President, you know that this quota issue is walking by decisions made by the Board of Directors of the CEIKUR and determines these quotas in the framework of its business plan and to keep the quality of tea at a certain level. WHEN the quotas are too high, the quality is low, the THUR executives have already informed us on several occasions. On the other hand, not only are all our institutions involved in smuggling tea, but also other issues, and our Prime Minister's instructions are very, very clear. Thus, our relevant institutions will continue their efforts to fight trafficking under a specific action plan.
tbmm-2012-06-07sit02spe0157par0665	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 10th article is accepted. Profits and expenses of occupational institutions MADDE 11- (1) The income of occupational organisations is: A) The fees for the documents they edited. B) incomes from social, cultural and educational activities. C) Donations and help. T) Broadcast revenues. d) Prices for services rendered. e) Moving and immovable capital revenues, participation and company profits and foreign currency revenues. f) Support and assistance from public institutions and organisations. G) dues, penalties and other revenues. (2) The amount of income the rooms receive within a calendar year is recorded as income to the Union, which is set by the Union's General Assembly, not above 20%. (3) Companies can do the expenses they need to fulfill their tasks under these Laws and other legislation, as specified in their budgets or administration boards. (4) Occupational organisations are authorized to move and buy and sell, sell, build, grant scholarships, grants and assistance, support and encourage social activities, form a company or foundation within the framework of these Law provisions, or participate in association and co-ops, and so forth. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 12- (1) The procedure and fundamentals for organizing services or activities as tourist guidance, expertise and relevant certificate programmes in the field, the minimum issues needed for the tourist guidance service, the discipline, registration, registration and other issues related to the implementation of this law and the regulations imposed by the ministry. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 12th article is accepted. MADDE 13- (1) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism, dated 16/4/2003, and Article 13 of Article 13 of Article 13 of the Law on Organizations and Missions of 4848, has been changed in the following way. ) Taking the duties and audits given by the legislation provisions on tourist guidance, taking all the measures required by cultural and tourism policies in the field of tourist guidance and tourist guidance services, inspecting tourist guide rooms and tourist guide rooms in all kinds of business, processing, activity and accounts. (2) The submarine (a) of Article 27 of Travel Agencies and Travel Agencies Association Act No. 1618, dated 14/9/1972, has been added to the substructure below. A thousand Turkish liras, separately for each verb, to the travel agency, which has not signed a written guide agreement for the 5-Tour or employs a guide under the base fee. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 13th article is accepted. THE rights of those with a guidance identity card as of the date of which this Law is in effect are reserved on condition that they carry the conditions prescribed in Article 3 (a), (e) and (f)bents of this Law, and that the relevant room established according to this law is registered within six months of its history. However, the guidance card of the counselors who apply is replaced with a license. Guides with a regional guidance card can operate only in the area listed on a guidance card, language or languages, provided they register in the relevant room established within six months of its founding date. (3) Those who sign up for guidance courses opened by the Ministry at the time of the execution of this Law will be accepted into office on the basis of their completion of this training, regardless of its duration and quality, and will carry the conditions envisioned in Article 3 of this Law. (4) Those who have been banned from the profession, who have been removed from the job due to other work and service bans due to their work or by their relevant laws in the public institutions or by having a visa obligation or by having a national or regional guidance identity card, or by applying to the Ministry within a year are accepted by the first joke of the 3rd Article of this Law (a), (b) and (e) the conditions envisioned by the ministry to be successful in the examination. I submit to your votes the temporary article 1: those who accept... those who refuse... temporary matter 1 is accepted. THE guidance agencies established under the Law of Business and Artists No. 5362, dated 7/6/2005, at the time when this Law was enforced, and with all its debts and assets, they become a guide room in accordance with its laws and conduct their activities as subject to this Law. The body selection of these organisations must be made according to this Law within three months of the day when this law is in effect. They transfer 20 per cent of their assets from debt to the Union within three months of the Union's election. (2) Elections envisioned in this Law will be completed within a year from the date when this Law is in effect. The tasks given to the Union's general board and board of directors during this period are carried out by a board of directors, consisting of presidents of professional organisations who have earned room quality under the first joke. (3) In accordance with this Law, the transactions of the handovers are exceptions to any tax or tuition, and to any stamp tax. I submit to your votes the temporary article 2, those who accept... those who refuse... temporary matter 2 is accepted. The current base price schedule is implemented until the new base price schedule is set, according to these provisions. I submit to your votes the temporary article 3, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 14- (1) is in effect in the history of this Law publication. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 14 accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Article 15 accepted. Congressmans, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you five minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen, I read the open vote on the Tourist Guidance Occupational Code bill: ▪ Number of votes used: 213 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. Since we have reached the end of our work term, it is agreed that on Tuesday (June 12th 2012), it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (June 2012), to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of the bill and proposals of verbal questions. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
