tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 95th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Erzurum MP Oktay Ozturk, who asked for a word concerning the loss of five workers and the neglect of rescue efforts later. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Congressmans, there's a very big hum in the General Assembly Hall. I want to listen carefully to the precious preacher. Please, let's stop this noise. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0002par0019	Mr. President, I have received an off-the-book address regarding the recent incident in Erzurum, and I salute you all. Since there are no legal and administrative mechanisms controlling hydropower plants in our country, hydropower plants are experiencing legal and ecological problems during the creation of hydropower plants, while in the business phase there are problems. The Karasu-2 Hydroelectric Plant in Ashkale district of Erzurum Province has been watered for eight months in a very primitive and insecure manner. The Karasu-2 Hydroelectric Plant is not allowed to hold water when it has the right to use water. It was applied to the DSI about a month ago. There are six villages in front of the darkwater-2 hydroelectric power plant bend. It also has the largest chrome and magnesium business in Turkey, where hundreds of people live in front of it, and this dam frightens people. This recklessness has gone far enough to cause the death of five of our citizens as a result. Now, I'd like to read to you the letter that our brother, who lost a relative in this incident, sent to us because it also reveals the full fulfillment of the event. The hand in the lake occurred on 3/4/2012. My late brother served Ashkale and his villages for thirty-five years without a word of winter or summer. Although his retirement was up, he was thinking of working for a while longer to keep up with the new recruits. But God has not given it to us. Maybe it was the better thing about us and about yourself. May God have mercy on all of them. We're people who believe in fate. They interfered with opportunities that didn't exist on 3/4/2012. In its own effort, TEDAS high tension line remaining in the AKFEN Hydroelectric plant's blistering area is failing, and two or three days before the incident, subcontractors from TEMEL Electric want to repair the malfunction. My brother always says it's risky and dangerous, but then Erzurum comes from the region, and I think there's pressure from administrations to repair the malfunction. My brother is on the phone with the Erzurum official. He declares that if the equipment and equipment are provided, he can intervene, otherwise he cannot. And then, somehow, he needs to intervene. He's starting equipment supply. They're getting a sea bike from the city of Ashkale. 70 percent of the surface of the pond is covered with ice in the conditions of that day. They're riding a sea bike, about 5:30. My brother's leading the way by breaking the ice. They're slowly reaching the middle of the lake. Around 5:50 p.m., he makes a phone call to his son, talking to the head of the central village of Gülören around 6:10 p.m., and the conversation is final. Now, from now on, the villagers are learning about the incident, calling the city, calling 112 services, the gendarmes. Although there is a helicopter brigade nearby, Malatya is asked for a helicopter. It's happening at 15.30, and by 19.20, these people are struggling to live on water. When I called the governor around 1900, the governor was taken to rest. When he insisted on his protection, we spoke to the governor on the phone, and our friends were interfering at the scene, doing what was necessary. We received an answer, and there were no remains on the water around 7:30. If there was a discreet authority here... the villagers will tell it themselves. It's 30 meters off the coast, and it's happening. The carabinieri, the police, they're all over the place, they're not letting anyone go. They say maybe those who can swim can get there and save them by throwing a bottle, but unfortunately there's no decent manager there, so that's how it works. I offer this to your attention. And the citizen doesn't want anything, but we do. Before that, we want the help of the state to be equated with the disaster of our people in Uludere. So, I'd like to bring to your attention the incident of a minister going to visit the people of this country. The Home Secretary is a festive minister. Because of his ministry, he's a man of the state who shows his love for the man of the state... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...a Erzurumian who would never be fit for a statesman, and we watched with sadness and horror as he displayed a clear example of his arrogance. And I offer this to your attention. Let them know that he plays well, he knows how to play, he knows how to play, and if his votes have led to this incident, he knows how to get those votes back. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0003par0033	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Mehmet Kerim Yıldız who wants to discuss Ağrı's anniversary of salvation. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0004par0038	Mr. President, I have been promised the 94th anniversary of the liberation of Ağrı and districts Egeşkirt, Hamur, Tutak, Patnos, Taşlıçay, Diyadin and Eşabayut. On this occasion, I salute you all. Our province of Pain, which was occupied by enemies at different times in history, was rescued from the Russian occupation on April 15, 1918, after fighting in unity and unity. I remember with mercy and gratitude our heroic sacrifice, who fought with their lives to protect the land we live on. Also, in the 19th year of his death, I wish God's mercy to our civilian, democratic, and liberal President, Turgut Özal, who was the leader of change and transformation in Turkey. Again, because of the Happy Birth Week, I wish the Islamic world and all humanity a peaceful and peaceful world. Mr. President, our province of Pain, rescued from enemy occupation ninety-four years ago, has not been saved from the problems of underdevelopedness for years, and our province has begun to get its share of change, transformation and development, which has begun with the arrival of the EC PARTY. To overcome problems ahead of development, you have to overcome democratisation, human development, capital savings, fair division, stability and sustainability issues. With social, economic and political openings, without democratisation, human rights, education, agriculture, transportation, environmental and urbanism, modern housing, modern education institutions, roads, energy investments, many investments and openings have been made to change the face of our province. The university, which our achest citizens longed for, was founded in 2007, during the period of our government's drinking water networks to our villages under qualified high schools, new hospitals, divided roads. It is also the first time in 2011 that warm asphalt has been launched and will continue to be implemented. The road expansion and asphalt tender will be held on May 15th. I hope the work will be finished this summer. In the harsh winter conditions in our province, the village roads have been opened ten times this winter alone, fighting for about 30,000km of snow. That means going back and forth 15 times between Pain and Ankara. Again, Ağrı Municipality has not only opened its way through the snow fight this winter, but in two months around 20,000 trucks have moved the snow out of the city center. This shows that private administrations and municipalities in our region need separate financial support in fighting snow in winter conditions. Firat, Fatih, Mehmet Akif Ersoy and 100th Year neighborhoods in the City of Ağrı district have been taken into urban transformation programme, and the first stage work in Fırat neighbourhood will be completed this year and will be delivered to the rightful owners. In the second stage, the destruction of old buildings has been completed, the construction contract has been completed, and by the end of 2013, a significant portion of the dwellings will be delivered, I hope. In addition, hot asphalt will be made by our municipality this summer on all main streets of Ağrı. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs... The new incentive package, which our Prime Minister explained and the business world finds very positive, is far more comprehensive than the incentives that have been announced so far, aims to eliminate the gap in inter-state development, boost investment support for the least developed areas, reduce unemployment by supporting intensive sectors. According to the level of socioeconomic development in the new incentive system, the provinces are divided into six regions. One of the 15 counties in the 6th district is our province of Pain. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They'll be able to make the most of all the support they can invest in our province. Meanwhile, we're urging all Painful and Turkish businessmen to invest in Ağrı. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0005par0059	Thank you, Mr. Star. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Mustafa Sahin, MP of Malatya, who has asked for the honor of the 19th anniversary of the death of our eighth President, Turgut Özal. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0006par0064	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised the 19th anniversary of the death of our 8th President, citizen, late Turkut Özal. I salute everyone. In particular, the late Turkut Özal has been remembered as a state elder who has taken the economy, transport, technology, infrastructure, education, health, social and cultural areas out of the straits that we've been in, and made sure that he can move forward with the pace of becoming a world state by skipping the age, changing to us, innovation, technology, and all the mental revolutions necessary to do this. Dear friends, Turgut Ozal was a radical reformer. It was a modern leader of the Ataturk Dam and Fatih Sultan Mehmet Bridge, an architect of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation Project, an architect of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation Project, who introduced Turkey with natural gas, started a housing campaign in 1984, homeowner of small-incomers, who launched the largest project in the Republic's history, a modern leader of the European world, who built the Ataturk Dam and the Fatih Sultan Mehmet Bridge. He highlighted the three basic conditions needed for democracies - free market economy, freedom of religion and conscience, initiative and the comfort of competition. When Turkish Penal Code 141, 142, and 163 have removed the articles of the 142 and 163, my grandmother was also Kurdish, who had claimed that even the Kurdish issue of that day as a bogeyman. She said, "Let's shoot, break, let's end it. Let's stop it. Let's stop it. Let's talk about being provocative. Let's talk about the solution in the 21st century. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Turgut Ozal has left us in no time at all. The wonderful change and development he wanted to leave to Turkey stopped early. It is also a regret that those who came after him could not maintain his legacy in the same determination and power. Everything about Ozal was opposed. Remember, the bridges he built from the dams, economic policies, foreign policy attacks, clothing, everything he said, and we couldn't get used to you. But he said, "You'll get used to it." Now, we understand better that the only thing that was opposed and not understood was its name, in fact, newness and change. Ozal suggested a change of mind, and they were resisting change. He proposed the age-lapse Turkey, while some objected to the change of the corrupt system. He was teaching us to be civil and civil, and some of them criticized him for fighting with the military. He denied the status quo's classic sense of state. Özal, the state has no father, there is a nation that serves its nation. When he said, "The wicked son who opposes his father," he was called. He had a tender heart, and yes, we have two shirts; one of them was a holiday, and one of them was an execution. You will remember that foul attack on him by the dark power centers, even though he was wounded at the time, he came out and gave us this life by God, and no one could take it without his permission. Dear MPs, the suspects concerning the death of Turgut Özal are still in progress. Even though it has been nineteen years since his death, we are deeply saddened by the fact that the mystery of his death has not been lifted. At the funeral of Turgut Ozal, the statement in a handwritten banner did not go unnoticed: Yes, the religious and democratic President was called. This was Ozal. This was the real model of the President that our people wanted. Also, on 17 April 1978, with a package of bombs sent to him by mail thirty-four years ago, I remember him and his daughter-in-law and his two grandsons, and, unfortunately, from the legendary mayors of Malatya, Hamit Fendoglu, who received the mercy of Hakk. Yes, it grieves us and the Malatians that he, as an unknown, is on the dark pages of history. Recently, we hope that the Ankara Special Prosecutor's Office will also end its investigation. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0007par0073	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. On behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0008par0077	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the High Council. Today is the 19th anniversary of the departure of our eighth President, the late Turkut Ozal. Mr. Mustafa Şahin, our Malatya MP who has just spoken off the agenda, and I hope to honor him for his service to our nation and to our country, as our dear friends will speak on behalf of each group. I offer God's mercy to the late Ozal, and my condolences to our beloved nation. Ladies and gentlemen, our late President, Turgut Ozal, once made politics in these seats under this sacred roof, just as we are today, it is a great honor to be chosen by our nation to come on this sacred mission, to sit in these seats. These seats add something to some of them, and some of them give meaning to the seats they're sitting in; our late President Ozal, he was one of the people in the second group. He has given a great deal of value to his personality, character, struggle, determination, every seat he sits in with his goals, every office he sits in. Congressmans, the life story of our late President is actually a success story of our republic. A civil servant in the country, a story of a father and mother's life spanning the top of the state from their lives in absences and impossibility. This is a unique opportunity that the Republic has offered to our people. Our late President -- a successful student body, then a state official, high-level government, politics in the bureaucracy, and then the Prime Minister and the presidency -- has done his job with great responsibility in every post, and has used the resources his state has provided for him to best benefit and development of his nation. As I said at the beginning, our late President has reflected his own intelligence in every environment and office, and has managed to give his own color. At a time when the economy collapsed, when the state needed 70 cents, the economy took over the bureaucracy, and despite all the impossible, it managed to revive the economy on the brink of bankruptcy, but its greatest success was in politics. I've been in politics with him for a little while. Mr. Ozal, who I had been campaigning for days in the 1977 elections in Izmir and his district, was deeply impressed by his tenacity for work, his contact with people and his ideas. He had failed to become a member of parliament in the elections, but in 1983 he entered the elections and achieved a great success that no one had ever dreamed of, and the Homeland Party alone was in power. After Turkey's most brutal impact, at a time when the polarization of brother fights in society deepened, he had managed to put four trends around the same table, and prepared a reconciliation for our country that no one could imagine. Turgut Ozal was a man of a reformist mission. At that time, many politicians were talking about goals they could not dream of, carrying out actions, and bringing new concepts into our political lives; the concepts of the mission, the vision, and the fucking expression of the political literature came into our literature because of Turgut Özal. He was a hard worker. There are a lot of politicians in our country who can't do 30 or 40 years of politics, even half the reforms he's done in ten years. He was a visionary politician who followed the world. The 21st century will be the Turkish century. He targeted and prepared his country in this direction. Instead of being compressed into narrow patterns, Turkey was dreaming of competing with the world. Instead of his understanding, he was laying the foundations of a free economic model that competed with the world's huge-scale companies. He included all the country's values in the development race, and in Istanbul he was spreading the monopoly of capital in a narrow environment into the capillaries of Anatolia. If today there is talk of the capital of Anatolia, the free market economy, the Turkish entrepreneurs exporting all over the world, there are major contributions from Ozal. Dear lawmakers, our late President also had a free spirit. He stood before the status quo with a sense of freedom, of free thought and of every aspect of life. He bravely struggled with the bans that prevented our human progress in every field, removing many obstacles to the economy, politics, ideas, beliefs. The freedom of religion and conscience, freedom of opinion and expression, freedom of enterprise, which he sloganed with three freedoms, were the most powerful pillars that sustain today's strong Turkey. For the first time, he spoke bravely of Turkey's most fundamental problems. He also expressed the first serious remarks about the solution to the Kurdish issue, which many politicians today hesitate to pronounce. Dear lawmakers, we can spend hours talking about the taboos, the bans, the vision he's made, the reforms he's made, and the giant actions he's done in the life of our late President, who will be considered too short in his political life. No doubt, as in his day, there may still be critics. However, he -- before and after him -- had one thing that many politicians had failed to do -- that he had managed to touch the heart of his people, the way of life, the way of conversation, the heart of his people. He turned his face to the values of his people, to distance himself from his people, and to look down on them, was a warm, loving, fatherly, and compassionate face. From his peasant to his farmer in the field, from his construction worker to his government official, he warmly embraced an entire community. Rather than underestimating his people's values, banning, and conflicting with them, he chose to respect them, to own them. He loved his people very much, and made for him a place in the heart of his people, so that only a few of them would have a share. He understood his people, and so did his people. He analyzed better than a political scientist, sociologist, scientist. I'd like to end my words with the banner of just one of the 100 thousand who shed tears to see him go to eternity: the democratic president, the civilian president, the religious president, the paradise of the place. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0009par0092	Thank you, Mr. Arinc. According to the 60th article, I will make a promise to the first 10 people. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0010par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish to convey a moment's notice to Simavlı and Kütahian residents of the province of Kütahya, due to the earthquake that affected many districts of Simav. On this occasion, since the earthquake occurred on May 19, 2011, we can't really understand that many of our citizens have been indifferent to the region, while on the one hand, Mr. Finance Minister has been donating $2 billion for the Twitter and Van earthquake, which has yet to be resolved. On the other hand, Mr. Health Minister hasn't been able to locate a hospital in 11 months. God forbid, I thank you that none of us will survive this plague in the event that the next earthquake will be left without a hospital.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0011par0100	Mr. Topstone...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0012par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the founding anniversary of the village institutes of April 17th. Village institutes are the most important institution of Anatolian enlightenment. Although it was a very short period of time, it has produced monuments throughout the country that allow important breakthroughs in Turkish education, culture, art and science. In this context, with significant contributions to the establishment and work of the village institutes, Ismet Inönu, Hasan Aeli Yücel, Ismail Hakk Tonguç and with the deepest respect to the pioneers of enlightenment and village institutions that I can't count, I bow to the memory. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0013par0105	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0014par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. The Turkish Islamic world celebrates the Happy Birth Week, and I wish it to bring blessings and peace. I hope that all Muslims and mankind will be moralized by the great morality of our prophet, the Great Prophet. This year, the Holy Birth Week, which has been celebrated since 1989, as a result of the birth of Muhammad Mustafa (sallamu and Selem) who was sent as a mercy to the worlds, was well established this year as the Holy Prophet's brotherhood and brotherhood law. Compromising the morality of brotherhood and respecting the law of brotherhood are among the most important problems of mankind today. Again, in the age when steel and mechanical civilization squeezes the souls like a vise and slices them to shreds, mankind needs to understand our Grand Prophet more than ever. Islam, who came to humanity as a religion of mercy and mercy, tells us about the brotherhood and its law. The Great Prophet says that you cannot become mature Muslims unless you love one another. The message of Islam is mercy, mercy, and love that all mankind should be honored, and I offer you my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0015par0110	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0016par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. There's been a lot of unrest in the parliamentary staff that we've been working on for years to get our parliament to work more effectively. About 1,500 employees are either being forced to retire or trying to be sent to the pool as a norm staff. To this day, the work they've done day and night has been ignored. About 480 of these 1,500 of our friends have applied for mandatory retirement. I wonder what it's about with our friends and the Speakership. If these friends are not needed to be sent, why have hundreds of new members been taken into the House lately? If the House needs personnel, why are these friends being sent? As it turns out, AKP persecution continues in parliament. We wish our retired friends happy, peaceful, and healthy days with their families, and thank them for their service to the pool so far, on behalf of the National Party of Action. May their paths be blessed.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0017par0115	Mr. Onur...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0018par0117	Thank you. My congressman, who was just quoted -- in connection with love -- mentioned the rescue scandal, but from what I've seen, there's another scandal beyond saving it. Now that I've seen the Minister in the government, I wonder how the TEDAS transformers remained inside the DSI pond. What kind of engineering error is that? Secondly, Erzurum is a city that, as it is known, has supported the AKP, and voted above average. Why is he being punished? Why are the people of Tortum being punished, and why are they in Ashkale? And I, Erzurumian MPs of the AKP, ask the Home Secretary for an apology because the Republic of Turkey is not a circus area and no one is an animal that the Minister will discipline.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0019par0121	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0020par0123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, as the National Movement Party Group, we are first celebrating the day of our painful citizens' victory. May God never disgrace him like an occupation again. I pray for the mercy of all our citizens, who have walked to Hakk, in the salvation of Pain. In addition, in the 19th year of the death of our eighth President, Turgut Ozal, I am congratulating the late Ozal. Hamid Fendoglu, I also cherish our elder. May God forgive their trespasses and grant them a place of paradise. I thank them all on behalf of my people and on behalf of my people. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0021par0126	Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0022par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. There are 500 acres of land in Sariyer Zechariahköy, Istanbul. From the villager to the military, from the military to the treasure, from the treasure to the TİKİ, and from the TOKI (TİKİ) to the real estate dwelling, 120 acres are being built according to plans for these 500 acres of land to be auctioned off on May 3rd, 0.8 precedents, up to 6 floors. Does the Minister know the number of trees available in this forest area? How many trees will be cut down in this forest area? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0023par0131	Mr. Buldan...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0024par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth President is the 19th anniversary of the death of the late Turkut Ozal. We offer our condolences once again to the late Turkut Özal, who had important contributions to all aspects of life, who had also had important efforts to resolve the Kurdish problem, that God has mercy on his family and loved ones, who have not yet been raised, and that the investigation into his death has not been fully cleared. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0025par0136	Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0026par0138	Mr. President, 420 workers who have been laid off collectively in İstanbul Bahçelievler are continuing to resist four months' wages and compensations for the full 70 days. In the face of the company's kidnapping production vehicles and continuing its activities, workers who worked to collect what they were going to receive had applied everywhere, including our Assembly. At noon this afternoon, police attacked and eight workers were injured at the request of the employer for workers who were waiting in the tent where the company produced public opinion. Now, I have to ask: Is the police department the boss in the hands of the employers as a private security guard? Is it the duty of the police department to defend the comfort and the theft of labor that is said to have entrusted the lives of the people, the property of the workers? The Minister of Interior and the Governor of Istanbul must clarify and respond. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0025par0140	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0027par0142	Mr. President, thank you. This year's theme of the Happy Birth Week, which was held from April 14th to April 20th, is the Brotherhood Morality and Brotherhood Law of the Prophet of Hazreti. I hope he brings blessings to the entire Turkish and Islamic world. Again, today, I commemorate the eighth President of the Republic of Turkey, the valued state and political man, Turgut Ozal, with respect and mercy in the 19th year of his arrival to eternity. The late Turgut Ozal, who led our country's democratisation, the Turkish and Turkish economy's integration into the world, has left a mark on the state and society's mind, with projects, ideals, ideas, and actions it has made. The politics of the change of the late Ozal are blessed with the services of our nation to reach the level of prosperity and prosperity of civilization. He's an important state and political man who has made a privileged place in the heart of our nation with a vision that he's trying to place in our government. Ozal is an important statesman who has captured the age, depending on the national and spiritual values of this great nation, democracy, law, the universal achievements of humanity. I remember him with respect and mercy.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0028par0147	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Regarding the high notary fees and the public's lack of payment for these fees, the notary service activity is being paid and the problems of notarys should be investigated, the Constitution is 98. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter 104 and 105. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of a parliamentary investigation. Notary fees are notarized by the public today that most formal transactions are notarized by notaries. They suffer from high numbers in the citizen notary. Therefore, the notary services event must be paid and the problems of notarys should be investigated and dealt with immediately. We have hundreds of thousands of workers working for minimum wage in our country. While these workers register even to trade unions with legal rights, they must notarize the union membership registration receipt that is mandatory to the union. These registration receipts are required to be prepared in 4 copies, as the law requires it to be given to 3-4 institutions. Every copy here means that the price to be paid will increase exponentially. The terms of the estate, the wills, were taken from the courts and given to notarys. There is much more financial obligation to the public and a new source of income has been provided from the public. Instead of raising costs, service prices should be set, not per copy, but in notary services. In many copies, prices reach astronomical numbers. A fixed fee in the process of not victimizing the people would be economic comfort to the public. Another matter is no different from the fact that notary notarized deposits are kept. The check, which must be delivered to the first person, is currently notarized by notars of value in case the tenant cannot somehow get the key to the house. In this case, when valuable goods or valuable documents remain in the notary for 50 or 100 days, it brings a serious financial obligation to the person who pays. It's a service, but it puts the people in great financial difficulty. Almost 4/1 of the fee here is notarized, while the other goes to finances at high rates in the name of tax and tuition. With new regulations, the government is seriously victimised by public notary fees, creating a new source of revenue from the people's backs. That's what our research proposal is for. [[Slap]] [[Mersin]] 3) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Elizipt]] [[Manisa]] [[Kastamon]] [[Lug]] 8) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 10) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Erzurum]] 12) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Adana]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Manisa]] [[Aydın]] 21) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate emergency measures that can be taken to prevent child abuse by investigating high rates of child-child marriage in our country, we provide the need for the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution. Early marriages, under pressure, are the focus of a very serious problem. The problem stemming from many complex causes presents vital results. The reason for the destruction of a girl's marriage today is considered child abuse and violence against a woman. This kind of marriage is widely performed in about all parts of our country. A girl's marriage, which has been legalized by the patriarchal structure, has a high proportion of one of three marriages. Early marriages bring destruction. In this context, children's brides first end their education life. Daughters who are married at an early age are expelled from school, and the number of girls who are forced to leave school is expressed in very serious numbers. In addition, children's brides enter into spiritual and physical collapse. Daughters who have been married at an early age are also physically vulnerable to serious health problems, as are many mental problems. Daughters are victims of the risks of being a child's mother without completing their physical development. After marriage, girls who were married before they could complete their social and spiritual development have problems breaking up with their friends, lack of self-esteem, avoiding participation in social activities. And in addition to all that, girls who are vulnerable to adult abuse because they are children are exposed to physical, emotional, verbal, and even sexual violence by their wives. As a result of all this helix of violence, girls who were married at an early age either disappear or end their lives by choosing the path of self. As a result, some of the children who disappeared and attempted suicide appear to be daughters who were married at an early age. Pains such as this happen almost every day in the Turkish press are often involved. However, according to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights signed by Turkey in 1949, every adult man and woman have the right to marry and start a family without any restrictions from race, citizenship or religious care. The marriage contract is made only by the free and full will of those who are to be married, but the truth of the children's brides is incompatible with that principle. Turkey, which is a part of the Convention on Avoiding All Types of Segregation Against Women, will not be considered legal for the child's engagement or marriage at an early age, and all necessary measures will be taken, including legislation to determine the minimum age of marriage and to make the official register of marriage mandatory. The Children's Rights Convention, which Turkey has sided with, is 36. In its matter, states protect the child against any other exploitation that may harm his well-being in any way. However, even though partial regulations have been made in Turkey's laws, the fact that today's daughters' marriage is at a very high rate shows that the state has not been able to carry out enough of its responsibilities. Therefore, the establishment of a parliamentary research commission to investigate emergency measures that could be taken to prevent child abuse marriages from happening will benefit our country, although it is urgent. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We respectfully announce the opening of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution on the grounds of the investigation of the causes of traffic accidents in Turkey and the necessary measures to be taken. The deaths caused by traffic accidents and accidents have an important agenda for both our country and the European Union. Data show that 1.3 million car accidents occurred in 2008 in the European Union, 39,000 people died in traffic accidents, and 1.6 million injured. The total number of car accidents occurred in our country in 2009 was 264,163, and the number of deaths caused by accidents was 2,969, while the number of injured was 160,744. The amount of financial damage caused by the same year's accidents was estimated at $835,190,922. According to this, compared to the death rates of Turkey and the deaths of the European Union across the Union, the death rate in Turkey is significantly higher than the European Union average. Data show that young people between 18 and 25 are 20 per cent dead in road accidents. It also has a high rate of road accidents during employees' commutes and arrivals. According to World Health Organization reports, one million 250,000 people die every year in traffic accidents. Traffic accidents are among the causes of the death of 15-19-year-olds, the first, the 10-14, and the 20-24-year-old group. So far, the number of people who died in traffic accidents around the world is greater than the number of people who died in world wars. According to Health Ministry data, the deaths of traffic accidents in our country ranked third among all known causes of death. In our country, more than 50,000 people have been killed by traffic accidents in the last 10 years and more than a million injured. In Turkey, Istanbul was the first in traffic accidents, as every year. There were 50,257 traffic accidents in the province of Istanbul last year, including 10,870, mortal and injured, 39,387. In the accidents, 241 people were killed, while 16,610 people were injured. In Ankara, second place, there were 35,731 accidents in one year, 174 people died, 13.955 injured. According to the death toll, 134 people were killed last year and 125 were killed in traffic accidents in Antalya. A total of 8,083,267 traffic tickets were issued in 2009, including 22.168 pedestrians, 4,561,722 drivers and 3,499,267 license plates. The drivers and pedestrians were fined a total of $966,389,811 in one year, with a total of 14.732,644 (951,657,167) reported in advance. Also, driver's licenses of 109,192 drivers driving drunk cars under the control of traffic teams have been withdrawn from 14137 drivers who have completed 100 penalty points; 812 drivers who have exceeded the speed limit 5 times; 137 drivers whose health conditions have changed; 56 drivers who have been ruled by the Highway Traffic Law; 1.171 drivers with a court order. As a result of these inspections, 195,550 drivers were transferred to the Public Prosecutor's Office, while 722,069 vehicles were banned from traffic due to lack of documentation and equipment. Although both administrative and judicial sanctions were involved, there has been no reduction in the rate of accident, death, and injury. On this occasion, it is important that necessary work be done to examine and prevent detailed examination of the causes of traffic accidents in Turkey. [[Mwah.]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two statements, which I will read separately and submit to your votes: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A delegation of members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Foreign Affairs Commission is scheduled to make an official visit to Ukraine with the invitation of Ukrainian Parliament Foreign Commission President Oleh Bilorus. The visit of the delegation to Ukraine is part of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the clause, it is submitted to the approval of the General Assembly. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly On the matter of Turkey's departure to Poland to participate in the Conference of Parliamentary Presidents of the European Union, which will be held in Warsaw, it is presented to the General Assembly under the 9th Article of the Law on Organising Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 17/4/2012 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 28.10.2011, Bolu MP Tanju Özcan and his friends suggested that the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be read to the President of the National Assembly in the same session of the Parliament Research Front, which aims to investigate the problems of forest villagers and forestry co-ops, and to determine solution proposals, and other proposals to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. In favour of the group proposal of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Tanju Özcan, Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır; on the contrary, Karabük MP Osman Caffeci, Kastamun MP Mustafa Gökhan Gülşen will speak. The first statement in the favor is from Mr. Tanju Özcan. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0029par0309	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I've made a promise today that I'll be able to express myself a few times before, and that I'll be able to say it again today, about our motion to investigate the troubles of the forest villagers. I salute the General Assembly. Friends, many of you may not realize it, but 27 percent of Turkey, for example, is covered with forests, about 60 percent of my constituency, Bolu. Turkey has about 19,000 forest villages and over 7 million forest villagers. However, so far, the troubles of the forest villagers have not been addressed, unfortunately, enough by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, have not been raised. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the most important problem of the jungle villagers, in fact, is the way the government looks at them. I regret to inform you that the government does not have problems such as the problems of the forest peasant, nor did it have problems; nor did it have problems yesterday, nor does it have problems today. Now, I call from here to the forest villagers, the precious forest villagers, the AKP has deceived you for three elections. You're taking your vote and giving it to AKP, you think the AKP's on your side. We always said, no, the AKP was never on your side, and the AKP was never on your side. The AKP has always favoured the rich, favoured the contractor. The AKP had no supporters, no subcontractors, only in the municipalities, and AKP has supporters in the forest. You don't think that AKP officials think that what will happen to this forest villager is what will happen, and they're just thinking, "What are we going to do with the three-cent income of the black forest villager?" They don't have anything else to worry about, just so you know. We keep saying, the forest peasant always went back in the AKP era. And are we exaggerating, dear lawmakers? No. Let's look at the situation of forest co-ops during the AKP period: where forest co-ops come from, it loses power constantly, it loses partners all the time. The reason is the AKP's view of the organised society. The AKP is uncomfortable with forest co-ops because forest co-ops remind the AKP of an organised society. If people get organized and get together, they're stronger, he knows that. If people organize and come together, they seek their rights, they demand them. What happens when that happens? The government doesn't like it. That's why the AKP sees co-ops as an illegal terrorist organization, and it's making an extraordinary effort to purge it. During the AKP, we say the forest peasant went back; you object. So what do you object to, and I'd like to ask you that? The numbers are in the middle, what was the price of the revelation ten years ago, what was the summer shoot, what was the winter shoot, how much now? I spoke to the head of Cyprus before I came here, Mr. İbrahim Aytar. Mr. Aytar has one other feature, and he's also the co-op president. I said, "This is going to come up today. Can you tell me about the final situation of this year's inspired prices?" He said, "They're giving me 30 liras, 40 liras, or something like that. Dear MPs, I know you're not ashamed of the forest peasant, but at least have fear of God. You're using the world's most expensive diesel, and look at these people, and look at the revelations that you're responding to. You say, "Keep working on the throat food, it's too much money." Take a paper pen, or we'll do a simple math with you: as the forest peasant -- whoever knows among you -- you'll cut down the tree, you'll go into the woods, you'll rob it, you'll take it up to the ramp, you'll load it into your vehicle, you'll bring it into storage and you'll deliver it. You'll travel for miles with the world's most expensive diesel, and then you'll expect to make a profit. It's one of the hardest jobs in the world, and there's no way the forest peasant can make a profit in these circumstances. In a moment, the former Director of the Forest will be speaking from here -- now that I've heard -- will request word against the motion. He'll probably say, "There's nothing wrong with the forest village," just like the Minister said. Look what the Director General of the Forest is doing. I'm going to draw you an interesting picture: as a peasant, you deliver at $50 to the average warehouse. The Forest General Department is selling the same log from the warehouse at $300 a cubic meter, six times the difference. 250 lira is profiting in cubic meters, and as a result, the Forest General Directorate is one of the top-selling state institutions in Turkey, one of the top ten tax-paying state institutions, and as a result, Mr. Osman Coffeeci gets his plaque from Mr. Prime Minister before he is elected a member of the community. Now, what I'm curious about is that as a member of a county that has a lot of jungle villagers, the forest headquarters owns the business, and the forest peasant does the work. The forest peasant says: "I can't afford the term for the forehead." The Forest General Directorate says: "I am one of Turkey's most profitable, making the most money. As a state, we put money in our left pocket when the Forest General pays taxes. And in between, there's a forest peasant who only saw this money go from right pocket to left pocket. Isn't it a shame about friends? Why don't the forest villagers get some of that instead of making so much profit? Can't we just put a dime in the pocket of the forest peasant and get some money in his pocket? Look, I offered a bill, and I said, well, the Vahid price app is between the two lips of forest managers or district chiefs right now, so let's put it in a standard. What do we do? Let's make a rule. As a peasant, how much did you deliver the log to the warehouse for? 250 liras? Next year, recommend 50 percent of this to the peasant as a price. I suggested it, and I spoke to some of your friends. He said it makes perfect sense. But you didn't even bring it to the commission, you didn't even bring it to the commission. I didn't give up my fight, I brought it here according to the Civil Code 37, and I told you here, and you all nodded as you listened, but when it came to voting, you decided against the forest peasant, and you raised your hand again. Guys, I'm telling you, if the Director General of the Forest is making a profit, then the peasant who does the forest business is getting a share of the profits. If the Director General of the Forest is in harm's way, I don't mind, but we've been looking at Osman Coffee for ten years, and he's been getting plaques from Mr. Prime Minister, but the forest peasant keeps counting. There's something wrong with that. And then there's the whole obelisk sale thing. Guys, this obelisk sale is very important. I just told you, the government didn't favor the forest peasant who worked hard, and it never did, not just today, but in the past. He saw the forest as a place to be pursued by his allies. Every day he did nothing but wonder who I could make rich, how I could make rich. Here's the joke about the sale: putting subcontractors in the forest. He told me himself in Bolu. I'm talking about the new director of the forest. He told me in person: "It's hard to deal with the forest village now." He said, "It's useless." He said, "We'll raise the sale from the obelisk to 60 percent in a few years." He said, "We'll take it to God's will." Now, do you know what it means to raise the sale from obelisk to 60 percent? It's about putting your hand in the peasant's pocket and pulling those three coins out of that peasant's pocket. Do you know what it means to raise the sale from obelisk to 60 percent? It means turning our citizen, who is now a forest peasant, into a subcontractor. There's no other explanation for this, dear friends. Dear friends, I just told you, it concerns 7 million people. I went to the Minister -- he was just here -- and I said months ago, Mr. Minister, I did a study on the trouble of the forest villager, and I'd like to present it to you. Do you know what he said to me, Mr. Secretary? Where did the forest peasant come from? Look, my friends, the Prime Minister says that this semester's cabinet is my mastery cabinet. Your minister in charge of the forest says: "What is the problem with the forest peasant?" What makes you think that there's a Minister of the Forest who doesn't even know there's a problem with the forest villager, and you still let him sit in that ministry seat, and you don't even make a sound. Look, here's the challenge. Let's consider Bolu a pilot. Accept this motion to investigate. Let's go to the Mengen of Bolu, go to Cyprus, go to Seben, go to the Gerede, where you have received 85 per cent of the vote, and go to the head of Mudurnu. Let's knock on the door of those jungle villagers over there. Let's round them up, let's say: do you have any problems as a forest peasant, do you not? Allah bless you, we have no problem with our government. If they say so, I'm ready to tear up the MP's office here and go back to Bolu, but if they say otherwise, are you ready to take down the Minister? I'm asking you to answer that. I salute the General Assembly. I'd like to request the admission of my research motion.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0030par0328	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. The first word against the Republican People's Party's group's proposal belongs to Karabuk MP Osman Cafak. Here you go, Mr. Coffeeman.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0031par0332	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate the problems of the forest villagers. I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, our country is not rich from the forest. In our country, 27 percent of the forests are covered with forests, 99.9% of the forests belong to the state. Meri legislation has given the government the mandate to protect, operate, and develop our forests. There are 34,000 villages in our country. According to the 2011 census, 21,000 of these villages are forest villages, and 7 million live in these villages, so 40 percent of the village population is forest villagers. When we evaluate our country's general population, our people in the countryside are the least shareholders of national income. Amongst them, the poorest of them are the forest villagers. In fact, the definition of forest village in our legislation does not necessarily have a criteria for lowness, but we also have to accept the fact that the majority of those living in the forest villages in the verbiatta are at least a fraction of the national income. What's a forest village? According to forest law, a village's property is a forest village if there are forests on its borders. The 177th article of our Constitution, and the 31, 32, 34, and 40th Articles of Forest Law 6831, have given forest villages many rights to benefit from the forests; the supply of the forest village's needs for their shelter comes first. 50,000 families from 7 million forest villagers, about 2 million people, make a living from forestry. They're in forest work, and they're in forest production, harvest and marketing. In recent years, forest products produced from our forests with improved forestry techniques have increased production by 100 percent, and the forest villager has been given more work and food. Our forests have previously produced 7 million cubic metres of industrial wood annually, while in recent years it has been raised to 14 million cubic metres. But to avoid misunderstanding, I must say that our annual profiling in our forests has increased from 28 million cubic metres to 40 million cubic meters per year. This is a reflection of my progress in the forests of our country. Dear lawmakers, forest peasant inflation has not been crushed, and production prices have increased on inflation every year. Between 2003-2011, total inflation was 84.7 per cent, while the forest villager's price for manufacturing was 106.7 per cent. So our forest villagers were not crushed by inflation, but by the way, inflation increased by over 24 points. In 2002, the average production of 1 cubic meter of fat was 27 liras, while in 2011, 74 liras were raised. In total, 253 million Turkish dollars were transferred to the forest village village in 2002, while 4 times higher in 2011 and 1.1 billion Turkish liras were raised. In 2012, 1.3 to 1.4 billion Turkish liras are expected to be transferred. The production of our forests is done by our forest villagers or by their forest co-ops. There are now 1,930 forest cooperatives established in our country. As many as 100 percent of the emvalence produced in protection bonds, along with forest work, to our forest villages or forest co-ops, is also being offered as a peasant market sale, if they want to, they can also sell obelisks. Forest co-ops are the priority in the sale of obelisk trees. The forest co-operatives were protected and supported by some arrangements. For example, forest co-ops have been given a 20% lower price in obelisk sales. Our villages and co-ops market their own products. So slowly, the forest villagers began to become the manufacturer and marketer of the forest administration, becoming more and more production workers than they are. As a result, forest co-ops sold 100,000 cubic metres in 2002, while forest co-ops sold 1.3 million cubic metres in 2011. Dear MPs, forest villages and co-ops also have the opportunity to collect all kinds of non-wood products in the forest and market them. In this frame, our forest villages, such as burials, peanut pines, thymes, goathorns, chestnuts, many non-woody products, are being sold at a small price, and these products are being processed by our forest villagers and cooperatives. For example, when we're paying a pound of money to the state, our villager sells it for $1.5, sells it for $1.5, sells it for $4.5, pays a penny for the cake, sells it for $2, sells it for 15 cents for the chestnut. Yes, the forest service has prepared and implemented many action plans to further increase and diversify these products. In many products, our country is now a monopoly on the world, as in the burial ground. In 2011, our forests collected 120,000 tons of extra wooded forest products and exported from these products to $29 million. In 2002, exports in non-woods were 47 million dollars, while in 2011, five times higher. Other than that, any forestry activity is a priority for our forest villages. In particular, our forest villages are given priority in the work of wooding, the development and rehabilitation of corrupt forests, the study of erosion control, the struggle against forest fires. The forest villages' important infrastructure needs, such as the drinking water, are being renovated as part of our government's SOCI project, and most of our forest villages have been paved. In many forest villages, the streets are now paved with key stones. As the EC PARTY government, our policy is to make sure that our citizens in the countryside have all the social resources our people have in the city, and, of course, our forest villages are our top priority. It is our basic forest policy to maintain our forests with our forest villages in a sustainable balance of protection and protection, to increase the prosperity of our forest villages by transferring the highest share of forestry revenues to our forest villages. In this context, there has been a major reduction in forest crime as a result of growing forest-people relations, and the fact that the forest cadastro is in the process of completion has supported this process. Today, the forest peasant and the state are more at peace than yesterday, looking forward to the future with hope, and the law on the agenda of Parliament will be a fine example of that. Our member of the Bolu has just made some critical decisions regarding the budget of the Director General of the Forest. Friends, let me explain: The budget of the Forest General Directorate for 2012 is 4 billion Turkish liras. $2 billion is a special budget. For 2012, the Forest General Directorate receives $2 billion from the private budget of the state. So even though some of the rotating capital has closed its balance sheet at the end of the year, depending on the price of wood in the market, the money goes to the private budget immediately and returns money from the private budget. As I put an end to my words, I welcome our eighth President, Turgut Ozal, and congratulate the Happy Birth Week of our beloved nation, and salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0032par0354	Thank you, Mr. Coffee Man. In favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal, Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0033par0358	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a pledge in favour of the agenda of the motion by the Republican People's Party Group to set up a research commission to investigate the problems of the Forestry Co-operatives Central Union. Dear friends, really, Mr. Speakers, as Mr. General Manager says, there are a lot of problems in the forest and in the forest, where about 10 per cent of our country lives, or 7-7.5 million of our people live. There's no one in this country without a problem, Mr. Coffeeman. So no one's saying anything to the services, thank you very much, but this nation deserves the best of everything. And you're saying, according to State Statistical Agency data, the lowest income rate in Turkey is our villagers living in and on the edge of the forest, and these, my dear friends, are the people I'm honored by, believe me, are the most valuable people in this community, the most honorable people. For in spite of all that is lost, they insist on living in the land with their children, and persist in their pride, and in their fathers, and in the land that is left behind, and they strive to live there. These people, of course, may have had less problems than they did yesterday, but today they still have a lot of problems. In particular, forestry co-ops are a very important organizational model for the development of indoor and edged villagers, and they have reached a serious extent. If the government and governments have the right policies, it's a very important opportunity and advantage to develop the inner-forestation villagers, but when they see their domestic cooperatives as a rival, when they see them as a competition in the forest, not as a competitive element, but as a means of development, but as a way of putting them down, unfortunately, many of these cooperatives have come to a close, many of them have closed down. I know, too, that these cooperatives had to shut down the facilities they had built at the top of those Toros Mountains, and they couldn't survive. So I'm telling you, this motion is an important proposal to me, a proposal that concerns 10 percent of society. Why don't we set up a commission here and investigate the problems of these peasants, these beautiful people who live in the forest and on the edge of this forest as Parliament? If we bring the report, the findings, the solutions we propose to the government, and we say, "If we do this together," if we do these things, these people have been served, served, no one has been harmed." Dear lawmakers, look, it's a possible couple of hours today, but we're making a legal arrangement for Article 2/B of Forest Law 6831, which we plan to complete tomorrow. Now, these villagers don't have any problems here. We have a law that we're going to make as a gesture of goodwill -- which we have a proposal, which we have a proposal from the Republican People's Party, which is said to be combined with the government's bill, but -- so we're going to talk tomorrow, and we're going to talk about a lot of things that we offer here, and you're ignoring our proposals. But we're making a law that's missing, and that's why I'm making this motion to discuss the problems of the forest peasant. Now, these peasants, these people, they use these fields, including the treasures used in the forest and the edges of their villages, to provide for themselves, with their teeth, their families, and their children. In these fields, believe me, no economics, Rantability, profitability, efficiency, it doesn't fit the account, it's producing there, but it's producing there, trying to support its family. Now, in this law of 2/B, Mr. Secretary, we insisted that tomorrow, a lot of initiatives will be improved in setting the price, and if you want 50 percent of the current price, the law that you took out of this rural forest will be atrocity. Think of the mountains of Toros, the villages of the Aegean, not the villages of Sarıyer of Istanbul, the villages of Turkey; the villages of Turkey; the mountains of Turkey are already hard to provide for; it is not important that the land has 2/B land; it is important that the land has treasure land; it is important to be planted and plowed. If you force a man who drives a team from nothing to pay a price now, you won't be providing justice, you won't be producing service. In accordance with the principle of constitutional equality, the price must be determined. As a solution to your objection, we say: let's demand a 15 per cent price of the value of the 2/B land used by the villagers in the forest because he can't pay 50 per cent. So the northern Anatolian forestry -- our rich peasant -- may not be a problem, but I don't know much about it -- in the southern Anatolia, in the Toros Mountains -- believe me, high-value lawmakers, not for politics, not for opposition politics, but to remove its bread from the stone. He corrects the stone, builds a wall in front of it, carries soil, builds a greenhouse on it, and grows vegetables and fruits there. Where's the logic, where's the justice in asking for money from that land, when you, now, should be rewarded for this man's hard work? Dear lawmakers, look, these forestmen are heroes. So the society that we entrust to them, 10 percent of our population, manages 7 million of our people, providing them with their livelihood. If the jungle law had been enforced, those forest villagers wouldn't be able to get their noses out of their homes. I mean, forest engineers, forest headquarters employees, all the forest rangers, they're related to those villagers, they're living together like relatives, they're managing each other, they're facing the challenges of life in those mountains. If the laws that you have passed, you will bind the hands of these forestmen, you will do it. If you say so, I ask you from here, we will continue tomorrow: are you going to sell that land to anyone who wants to sell it, if you don't want to, if you don't want to, if you don't want to buy the land that you've planted, that you've planted, that you've driven, that you've got a greenhouse, that you've got a house on the Internet? How are you going to do that, Mr. Hodja?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0034par0366	He's not an enemy of the jungle peasant, he's a relative.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0033par0367	How are you going to do that?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0035par0368	Who's going to take it to the top of the Toros Mountains?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0033par0369	Not at all, not at all. Come and see what's in it now, what's in it, who's in it. You're in the forest and in the village of the edge... here's Mr. Coffee Man. How's he gonna buy it? Now, with this law, you've added treasure lands. You're saying we're going to sell the land of treasure that he used, the farmer's, the manufacturer's, at 50 percent of the value of Rayic. What are you gonna do if he doesn't get it? You'll sell it to someone else. How will you do it, Mr. Hajji?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0036par0371	We're making a down payment.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0033par0372	The truth is, dear friends, the state, okay, is going to set up a rule for society, and it's going to apply it. The rule you set, the rule you enforce, if it doesn't guarantee justice, it's called cruelty. Dear friends, persecution is not acceptable in our culture or our faith. For him, the villagers in the forest have problems, they have many problems, but those honorable people are trying to live there, with all their problems, with all their trust in their government, with gratitude for their Gods, with patience for adversity. Now, there's no point in bullying them with the laws we've made, making them difficult. This motion is a valid motion, and it is our request to set up a commission with this motion, and therefore we will support this motion, and I offer all of you with respect.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0037par0375	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. The final statement against the Republican People's Party group proposal is from Mr Mustafa Gökhan Gülşen. Here you go, Mr. Gülşen.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0038par0379	Mr. President, I have been promised against the Republican People's Party group proposal. I salute you. My dear friends, the Republican People's Party group proposal claims that our forest villagers have been victimised by false policies. First of all, 60 percent of my constituency is covered by forests, and more than 900 of our 1,070 villages are forest-related villages. So I know very well about the yesterday and the present of the forest villagers, and I know it's not true that forest villagers are worse than yesterday, as the motion suggests. This precious congressman of ours, he gave me some numbers, and I want to support them with some numbers. In 2002 -- these numbers for the casino -- were coming into the pockets of the forest villagers from a total of 600,000 cubic metres. As of 2011, production has increased to 2 million cubic metres, within the borders of the Castamono Forest Regional Directorate, and 150 trillion liras of money has been transferred to the forest village. The obelisk, mentioned as the 2011 figures -- mentioned contractors -- corresponds to 10 per cent of total production, which is three times the number of 2002 when we take it out. Therefore, the production has tripled and the money in the pocket of the forest peasant has increased by 15 times as much. So from yesterday to today, the forest peasant's income has increased, its economic resources have increased. Our predecessor, Karabuk MP, stated that under the CSEADAS Project -- because it is being proposed -- our forest villages are also doing infrastructure work, and problems are being solved. Among other things, some of the income from the sale of 2/B land as part of the bill currently on our agenda will also be used for the development of our forest villagers. Our Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu, has expressed this several times. Our agenda is also to discuss the motion to make a motion on our Home Secretary, Mr. Idris Naim Şahin. For these reasons, the CHP declares that we will vote against the group proposal, and I salute you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0039par0388	Thank you, Mr. Gülşen. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0040par0390	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0039par0391	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... the group proposal is not accepted, there's enough to decide. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. 12.12.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 14.10.2011 dates and 2/125 main numbers for your presidency and 37 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in connection with the Law Proposal on Change in Radio and Television Law of Turkey given 2954 by me. I'd like to submit to your knowledge that it is necessary to be processed according to the clause. Yours truly. Yes, the bidder is İstanbul MP Ali Özgündün... he's not here. An MP, Mr. Aytun Çıray of İzmir... no. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. We move on to the special agenda's part of the agenda. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, we are starting talks on the opening of a geneor on the opening of a geneor on behalf of the group's deputy, Mr. Pervin Buldan and Şırnak MP Mr. Hasip Kaplan (11/11) Gensoru Örgeti (11/11) on the charge that protests against the festival celebration of Nevruz and the proposal of the law system have been banned and that police have used disproportionate force against those participating in these demonstrations. Government? Here. I'm not having the motion re-readed because it's already been printed and distributed and read in the 92nd Union of the General Assembly, dated 10/04/2012. According to Article 99 of the Constitution, the meeting will be promised to a member of the motion holders, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a Prime Minister or minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motion holder, 20 minutes for groups and government. Mr. Fair Wolf, the motion-holder Hakkari MP.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0041par0418	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, when it comes to Mr. Idris Naim Şahin, when it comes to Home Secretary, you can't really decide where to start. And I'm going to try to share with you here recently -- so we don't have a chance to talk about the whole thing -- as far as the ones in mind are concerned -- the applications of Mr. Hawk. And why we're making this motion. First of all, I'd like to explain to you that the number of civilians killed in 2011 was 57, the number of women wounded because they didn't comply with the notice; the number of women injured in village guards 3; the number of civilian citizens injured in 48; the number of civilians who lost their lives in the borders; the number of men injured in 16; of course, not Roboski; 36 deaths, 11 injuries in prisons; the number of people killed in detention; the number of women who lost their lives in the unknown; the number of women who lost their lives -- I'm telling you -- the number of men who lost their lives by 45 years; the number of children lost their lives in prison; the number of women who lost their lives in prison; and the number of those who lost their lives in prison. It's possible to replicate this data, but while I'm transmitting the data that I'm going to be satisfied with. The Minister's biggest pearl in recent years is about the gas bomb, which states that the gas bomb did not cause death. Of course, in the acts of violence in the case of Nevroz.............. I will share with you the names of the citizens who lost their lives as a result of the use of the gas bomb. See, the gas bombs that have been used recently, the Minister claims, do not contain any life-threatening, health-altering content. See, Metin Lokumcu, who lost his life in Hopa, was fifty-four years old, who lost his life in Istanbul during the recent events of Nevroz. Look, 18 months old Mehmet Uytun -- 18 months old -- died of a gas bomb hitting his head, 18 months old. A woman who died with a gas bomb, you were Hatice. These are the data from this period. Dear friends, we haven't found a photograph here, but Lightning Ayhan is another citizen who died of a gas bomb that hit his chest by using this gas bomb. But if you want a picture of the Home Secretary expressing all of these times, translating their actions, I can show you this. He is a minister of political literature, political history at this time, with talks of dissolution, provocative and hate crime. This Minister is not a minister for Turkey. This is not the style of a cabinet member who manages the Republic of Turkey. The separatist is an attitude and attitude that is like an enemy that evaluates anyone who doesn't think like he does, and if he is a minister, then this Parliament shouldn't look like Turkey. It's possible to explain how much the Minister has done, but I'm not also considering his recent assessments of painters, his assessments of poets, but I'm going to share with you what the writers have written about him, not us. No, it's not just a minister who's bothering BDP. I know very well that in different parts of society, even in common talks, including the ruling party MPs, a review of this Minister, whose practices are so easily shared, I will share with you a sentence from the New Dawn newspaper writer Ali Bajramoglu. It is not the case of bad and rude right-wing, cold-war logic, the 70-years of Communism Associations language, but it is not the issue, it is not the issue. The question is clear: is it preferential choice or political choice? Is it a carpenter's error or a carpenter's new style? This is a writer's statement regarding the Minister. Let me share another writer's statements with you, and I'll share with you a passage of the Minister's text written on Twitter by Emre Besuk from Yanya newspaper: I think that's how the human beings -- he's describing this way -- he's referring to Mr. Sahin -- should immediately give up his stubbornness and speak out of the text written by consultants. I'm going to interrupt. That's what he's talking about. He's clearly writing: Mr. Secretary, you don't know how to speak, so at least someone will give you a piece of paper, so don't be so careless. I'm going to share with you the opinion of another writer, Fehmi Korun, from the Star newspaper, that while the government is fighting terrorism, someone is supporting terrorism... Who are they? According to Minister Hawke, almost everyone. It gives you the creeps when you read it. What a wrong approach. And this is the approach of Fehmi Korul. His assessment of the minister, but it's the most striking, and it's going to express a little bit today, and I'd like to share with you the sentence that will describe the state of the minister's mood -- the writer of the Free Mumcu, Radical newspaper. Mr. Secretary -- and I'm about to share that picture with you -- when he was playing with Erzurum, when he was playing with the citizen -- he's probably saying that the minister of workers' deaths had a lot to do with him -- he's going to investigate the deaths of workers, he's getting himself greeted by the drum zurna, and he's playing the citizen. I'll share the author's evaluation with you - he doesn't know what he's doing out of sadness. It says, "Mr. Minister, is he suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder?" It's your Minister, who's making him face the drum when he's on his way to investigate death, making the citizen flip over. Dear friends, now, by saying no to the motion we've given you, you don't have a chance to get the Minister to accept you. With the Minister's approach, if you do not like him, but if you do flip around here, the Minister will be convinced or the Minister will have to flip over here to refuse the gene. Doing something else, saying something else is really not enough for Mr. Idris Naim Şahin. Every time he talks, hatred does not suit this Cabinet, it does not suit Turkey, the owner of practices that divide society and turn it into a bloodbath every time he speaks. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We ask you to free this Parliament, this country, this government from this denial, this disgrace. When he goes back to his normal life, his surrogacy life, does he flip over, or does he do something else, that's his business. But I'd like to say that a Minister has to take such a separative stance on society, and if you guys are digesting it, you have to flip over. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0042par0435	Thank you. The first word on behalf of the groups is for the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Sırı Sakık. Here you go, Mr. Sakek. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0043par0440	Mr. President, dear friends, on behalf of my group, I salute you all with respect and love. Today is the anniversary of the death of Ozal, the late Ozal. Nineteen years have passed, and we ask for God's mercy, but his death is still a secret, and this secret remains a secret. We've sometimes submitted motions for parliamentary research, we've asked to be investigated, but however, Parliament has always rejected it. But we call to the public from here: we, the Peace and Democracy Party, are not going to let this go, we're going to submit motions for Parliament research again, and I'm calling Parliament to reveal this secret. Mr. President, dear friends, the most fundamental measure of advanced democracies is freedom of thought, expression and organization. So the streets, squares, prisons of a country are also a mirror to the democracy of that country. Is a country run by democratic norms, or is it run by authoritarian methods, looking at the streets, the street might reflect on us like a mirror. Is he able to tolerate criticism, protests, or not? If there is, there's democracy; if there isn't, you can't talk about democracy, freedom. This country has a ruthless state terror against all its opponents. Interior Minister İdris Naim Şahin is the head of this state terror. So the Home Secretary is a government of a country, a window and a mirror. We've been seeing this window, this mirror for a long time, and the people of Turkey are also seeing it. You can see whether there is inner peace in a country, whether there is peace, whether democracy and freedom are suspended or not, by watching the Home Secretary of that country. So we have a chance to figure out where a country is headed, what its course is. First, we need to make this determination: protest, demonstration, rally, march, even in this 1982 Constitution, which we dislike, but unfortunately, in our country, there is no such right to opposition, especially to Kurds. There's a joy, there's a despotism. Now, from the day the Home Secretary came into office, we've witnessed what he's done, what he's done, and what he's done, one by one. Our friend just quoted me, and I'd like to start with a quote or two from him, from the day he came on his first mission to today. As a result of an attack, Mr. Home Secretary has an explanation: either fire comes out with fire or it comes out with a bomb or it comes out with gas. As a result, there was a fire. Says the great Turkish thinker Idris Naim Şahin. We have information that in an explosion in Kızılay, of course, three people -- unfortunately, our citizens -- consider the people who died from the explosion to be three -- have been killed. The target who does the deed knows best, the fullest. It's a non-target action. Says the great Turkish thinker Idris Naim Şahin. At the Army branch of the Turkish Criminal Veterans Association -- anyway, when you get there, all nationalist emotions rise up, passing through -- the Bedel has been paid heavily. We can't ignore that price. The price is not child's play. It's not a joke, it's not serious, it's nothing. Says the great Turkish thinker Idris Naim Şahin. There's another explanation for the Kurdish problem: they call it the Kurdish problem, they call it the problem, the problem. What's wrong? I'm calling, I can't find the problem. Says the great Turkish thinker Idris Naim Şahin. He that seeketh shall find his master, and he that seeketh him shall find his plague.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0044par0448	Then tell me.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0043par0449	If you still can't find the Kurdish problem in this country, then you're like those Japanese, the soldiers hiding in the jungle during the war, you don't know the world. Now, this is the Home Secretary's ban on Nevroz. However, in the last nine years, the AKP's government had been freely celebrated without setting a ban on the Neurosis, but nothing was happening. With one decision, even in some of our provinces and counties, there's no need to be allowed to be granted a constitutional right, but since we're the rest of this country, our boards, our county, county agencies have gone and applied, the officials have approved the property there, but the Home Office has ruled it without permission by a second general, and it's covered in blood and violence. And we've seen, we've lived, because of those practices of Mr. Home Secretary... me and a group of our friends were in Istanbul, and a group of our friends were in Diyarbakir. What was his motive? The revolutionary people's war will begin during the celebration of the Nevroz. Mr. Secretary, I ask you now: those who want to start the revolutionary people's war start it on the 18th, they start it on the 20th, they start it on the 21st, they start it today, at this hour. That's why the people who fought the revolutionary people don't make this decision by getting your approval. You're looking for a reason. Do you know what your fear was? These policies of yours were bankrupt, and your policies were destroyed by the Kurdish people and Turkey's democratic forces. What happened in Diyarbakir? And you were saying, "Look, with our practice, the Kurds can't go out, the Kurds can't go out into the fields." And what did the Kurds do with your practices? On March 18th, he counted your decisions without yours. Hundreds of thousands walked in Diyarbakir, then turned into a million, and celebrated the Nevroz, enthusiastically, but you tried to avenge and avenge it. What did you do? Then what did you do? In Cizre, you've given instructions -- you've served in Cirre, the people of Cizre have worked hard on you, you've eaten bread from there -- you've had the police under your command attack on our people, and the last thing you've done is to tear down our town building, the Panzers, the bullets, the gasses, and the bombs -- and our district president has been severely injured. And then you came back, and you served to the media, which is your backyard and front yard. Supposedly, there was a shooting from the inside. But you and I all knew about the shooting, but you were trying to cover it up. And then what happened? Batman, you've returned, you've taken revenge. What did you do in Batman? A group of our deputies, including Mr. Ahmet Turk, went to celebrate Batman, where security forces brutally attacked him. It happened in all the provinces and counties. In particular, Batman went and smashed the window of our election bus into the bomb. And then, Mr. Ahmet, who dedicated his entire life to peace, you beat him up, you lost him. That's your justice? Haven't you ever had a cut of democracy? Haven't you ever had a share of humanity? And then, when you turned around, you tried to exonerate these police chiefs, the governors there. But here, in all of your group talks, Mr. Prime Minister is always critical of the practice of one party. What's he gonna say? He turns around and says, "Well, sir, in the old days, governors, governors, governors, police chiefs, during the only party of the CHP, he served as the mayor." So, I ask you now: What do governors, trustees, police chiefs do at your disposal? They work for you in the county and county. In fact, Mardin's Nusaybin, excuse me, Midyat's Kaymakam went to your district building and said to your district president -- "Don't lose the castle, I'm here. Look, the party inspectors during the single party were doing the same thing, and you're doing the same thing. Look, members of parliament, dear friends, when this attack was launched on Mr. Turk in Batman, we had an expectation from the Minister of Interior, Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister. A congressman, a colleague of yours, is being attacked. Our other congressman friends were attacked, too, but what did you do to them? You're back, you're back, you're back, you're back, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out. Look, it was on TV last night, and he hit a Danish activist in the face of the Palestinian campaign with the bottom of a commander's M16 rifle. That same night, on the TV networks, this becomes news, and then he's suspended immediately. The Israeli Prime Minister turns and says: "This kind of behavior does not conform to the general character of Israeli soldiers and officers. There is no place for such people in the Israeli army and Israel. You know, even in Israel, where you don't like it, where you criticize it all the time, when there's this struggle for rights, and none of you have said, "Mr. Turk, I'm sorry." There's not a single transaction about the police and the police. And that is your disgrace. This doesn't suit the Republic of Turkey, but it might suit you because you're a police chief, and that's how you act. You're not our Home Secretary because you don't represent us. Look who you're representing, and I'll be there: There was Police Day on April 10th, and there were celebrations on Police Day on April 10th. You're in the mood of Cirler. The ceremony was held on April 10th, and who did you invite? Yesterday you invited the prisoner, Mehmet Agar. Who did you invite? You have invited Nahit Mentesh, who made the dark interior ministry of the 1990s, who marked that dark period. Who did you invite? You have invited Ismet Sezgin. You're actually a spirit quartet, you have the same spirit, because you're going back, you're saying... you're doing real estate literature in this country, and Tansu Ciller was doing pebble literature. This is the area where you feed. Kurds do not need a pebble or a square inch of land. Kurds have a demand; they want to live in humane, equal conditions. Whatever Mr. Bulent Arinc wants for his Turkish identity, the Kurdish people want the same for his identity. That's why you can't get away with gravel literature and real estate literature for him. You met them again that day. In fact, there was a state ceremony at those ceremonies that would not search for Middle Eastern dictators, red carpets were laid out, the ministers of that period, and Mr. Idris Naim Şahin were having a state ceremony there, and the wind was taking away the carpet, and dozens of people were holding that carpet that lay on the ground, Mr. Minister, walking on that carpet... That's what suits you, Mr. Secretary. That's what really suits you. That is what is become distinct from the people. That is the transgression of the people. Now, look, I'm saying Istanbul: in Istanbul, we were there with a group of our fellow MPs. Istanbul was under siege. Police pressure everywhere, people were going around the police corridor, and the police were using gas bombs and police were violent. And most of them came there with children in their arms. Those who start a revolutionary public war don't come with children in their laps to celebrate. In fact, if there was no way to get rid of the persecution, oppression of that cop, we all witnessed the people who threw themselves into the sea in that cold with their clothes on. Mr. Secretary, we've come across everything from the past to the present, from the time of the strawberries to your time. Yes, with your cannon, your gun, your gas bomb, your bullet, because we've lost dozens of friends who fought alongside us, but we didn't give in. Do you know what we met for the first time? For the first time in Istanbul, the people who came out of the police with knives this time stabbed dozens of our party friends. That's your democracy. Have you done a single investigation of these things, have you done a procedure? If you're the Home Secretary of this country, you have to do a procedure on them first. But you didn't do anything about it either, Minister, and then you came back, and you know what you said? You turned around and said, "There are 75 million people here -- this person, sir, in the name of Kurds -- they choke them with spit.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0045par0460	I said traitors, traitors...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0043par0461	Now, I don't know who the traitor is by your standards.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0045par0462	They know themselves well!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0043par0463	You mentioned 75,000 people, 75,000 people. Then explain who 75,000 people are. Look, in this country, some people talk about 15,000 people, some about 20,000 people; I'm talking about the population of Kurds. Hypothetically, 10,000, 15,000, but there are Turkish democratic forces with a conscience, there are Turkish people. At least don't take these people's saliva freedom away from them. These Kurdish people and Turkish democratic forces know exactly who to spit on, Mr. Minister. You can confirm your saliva culture and spit on those who don't respond to you, but please don't take our saliva freedom away from us. We know how to spit on those who persecute our language, our identity, our people, Mr. Secretary. And then, you know what you did? You went to a teaching massacre, attended a state-level ceremony for the first time. There was a state-level ceremony. There, yes, that massacre is a massacre against humanity. No one can confirm that, but you're the one who gave me the blood-and-blood revenge speeches. You didn't know what you were doing. You were there that day with the comrades of the Samasts who slaughtered the Hrant Dinks, and you said you were going to take revenge, and what were you doing? All you guys need is a white beret. Those who were there, all of them, were holding a march against the Agos newspaper, going to Agos, and Mr. Secretary was in charge of them. Now, doesn't this government, these MPs, anyone with a conscience, have the right to ask this Minister for an account? The Republic of Turkey is the republic of common peoples who talk about common law and homeland. When we say that, this is against the Armenians, this is against the Kurds, and this is policy against everyone who opposes you. Look, KESK came to voice a democratic right in the heart of Ankara. What did you do to them? Gas, bat, torture, cops attacked them. So, Mr. Secretary, would KESK be starting a revolutionary public war? Yet you are enemies to all opponents. Look, Mr. Secretary, there are people in this country who have written their names on the dark pages of history that haunt the people, one of them is Mustafa Muğlalı, head of a murder ring in the Esat Oktay Yıdiran prison, the Kenan universes, Tansu Cirller, Doğan Wrestler, Mehmet Ağlar. The ones who did the Roboski massacre, we still haven't named them. Here, Mr. Secretary, you have your name written on these. You have been persecuted and put in your name among the oppressors. You didn't respect the basic values of this people. You've been everywhere you've been, especially where the racist, nationalist waves are rising, and you've been there and you've given them a message. Because your power needs racist, nationalist votes in the 2014 presidential election. Look, it's all come and gone. Look, here are the architects of February 28th -- look at the divine justice -- they ran tanks in Sincan F-type Prison today. The world doesn't belong to you either. Either you're going to be fair and apologize to these people for what you've done, or you're going to have your name written down by the oppressors I just counted. And I say to you, "There are sins, and there are sins, and there are coverings, and there are sins, which are written in the book of the graves." The sins of the people I just mentioned were written in the graves. So come, and give up your wrong policies, and let your sins not be written in the grave book. Well, thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0046par0472	Thank you. Mr Mehmet Günal of Antalya on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0047par0476	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before we talk about it, I'm going to go ahead with a little reminder and a celebration. First of all, as Antalya MP, I wish all tourists a successful season because of the celebrated Tourism Week. I was going to take it off the agenda, but since I'm not in charge, I wish them all the best. Of course, on this occasion, we don't have a Minister, but I'd like to ask the members of the government to pass the tourist framework law immediately. Because I keep telling you, our concerned ministers know that there was a 2007-2012 Action Plan, 2012 came in, and we still don't have the framework law, so I'm reminiscing on this occasion. I wish you a successful season. My dear friends, another week we realize is Happy Birthday Week. We celebrated the birth of the Prophet (Sallahahu and Selem) on the 1441st Anniversary of the Year. I hope that you will have an intercession with all the believers. But here is this year's main theme, the Prophet of Hazlahi (sallahahi versus Sallam), the law of brotherhood and the morality of brotherhood. There are some important points here today that are concerned about that, too, dear friends. The Prophet says I was sent only to complete good morality. So we've established this week's theme as brotherhood, brotherhood law. And we have to discuss a further extension of a separatist terror problem that you have today, unfortunately, created as AKP Power, and spoiled and pampered, while we should do some things for the sake of unity, unity, brotherhood, peace, this week, in which the birth of our prophet, who was sent as a mercy to all the worlds, was celebrated. Dear friends, I would also like to ask the Speaker of Parliament here: I mean, I looked at it, Mr. President, with the word "nevruz," and it's written with a double "v" in it. So when we take the smallest thing away, it's against the Civil Code. You don't accept it, and I give it to your attention. So if there is, if it's legal, then let's know. They've fixed it, but the neuroses in it stand with the double v. I'd like to present this to the attention of the Speakership, the General Secretary of the Laws and Decisions. Dear friends, for those of Turkish culture, Central Asia, and for those of this geography, it means new day, and in all Turkish communities, it is known by the people who live here in this geography; it represents unity, unity, peace, and a day we always celebrate as a holiday. It's called different names, and we're called such names as the March Nine, like the March Grizzly, like the Solstice, or the Year of the Year. Our 12-animal old Turkish calendar is also celebrated as the beginning of the new year. Now, such a holiday day... Even the Ertuğrul Veteran Memorial Ceremonies were celebrated for a period of time, until the end of the Ottoman Empire, during that day. So it's an important day, the harbinger of spring, the harbinger of peace, of brotherhood. Our Great Leader, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, also attended the Assembly before the founding of the first republic, while he also attended the Naziz celebrations in Ankara in 1922. So as a day of peace, brotherhood, unity, unity, a day of spring, new day, new year's harbinger. Now, how is it that this intimate day of neurosis, which we have preserved for so many years, can be a part of such demonstrations, such as breaking, pouring, burning? I mean, we've celebrated all these years in unity, in mutual pride and emotion, in sadness, for thousands of years. Why are you turning this radical bonding into such a fight? Of course, here, those who try to contaminate our holiday, this beautiful spring holiday take courage from certain places. We don't just blame them, my dear friends. If you hadn't taken this job lightly, there would have been a lot of things that have been going on for years... I remember the word of Mr. Atalay, a demonstration is being performed, and thankfully there was no loss of life. He says, "The glass frame has fallen, banks, public institutions, and all sides have been destroyed, and then we thank God for it." I mean, is there a sense of security, friends, for that kind of security? You do what is due to those who disobey the law, to those who do what is done, to the workers of the monopoly, to the unionists. When we have a little tease over here, the vice president immediately gets on our heads, starts because it's against the government, and even the elements that aren't insulting in it, we do what we need to do. That's what you're saying. So, how is it that with the law on the table, you're so tolerant that you allow it to turn into a conflict, a thrill, a fight? So there's a state that can't secure its own safety, that can't guarantee the safety of its citizens, that makes it a threat, a government understanding? I was ashamed to see them. Nobody made a sound. He's insulted the government, he's insulted the government, he's insulted the elders of the state, he's threatened, he's coming, sir, we're going to do this, it's going to be like this. Look, Mr. President reminded you at the group meeting on March 21st -- the day of the neurosis -- to remind you again what level of threats have reached: let the negotiations begin, and if nothing is done, spring comes. If the government doesn't step forward, if the isolation doesn't end, let me tell you, it's spring. Give us our rights, give us our identity, know our native language, or else spring will come. Give us our democratic autonomy, give us our constitutional rights, or else spring will come. This spring, the nevruz we call it, the new day we say, is not the spring of unity, but we are now beginning to act. They threaten. How does a state, the government that represents this here, the government under its rule, not make a sound to these threats? After that, we avoid it with some explanations, as friends see in trade. My dear friends are here, unfortunately, and unfortunately, the most responsible for their arrival is the power. The incident, which has so far started in Habur, has unfortunately led us to come and find the courage to this day. I urge the government to immediately change its position and take a little more necessary measures, differentiate the fight against terrorism and the fight against terrorists, stop negotiations beyond this struggle, and bring some measures to the agenda after those measures have been taken. Otherwise, this will continue to happen, and the state of the Republic of Turkey, the Turkish nation and state elders will continue to be threatened. Now, what are we dealing with when this is happening? Look, there's a question going on here. Our ministers are here, where is the Prime Minister? The Prime Minister is traveling in China, traveling in Arabia, trying to deliver news as a special messenger somewhere. For what? To create the infrastructure of interfering with Syria. Now, why are you so eager to interfere with what's out there when we've got trouble at our own door? The Prime Minister said: "Let's call NATO." What about NATO? If there's an attack on you, can't you defend yourself? Are you weak? Well, of course, they go all the way back to Hakkari, where you can't follow hotly, sir, but the bullet ricocheted through our containers, and the knife is on the bone... doesn't it stand there, my dear friends? Last Friday in Manavgat, in my hometown, we had a martyr's funeral, the funeral of our fallen soldier in Hakkari. I saw the situation in that family, the proud stand of your father, even though he was that age, I will stand. I saw him walk in that heat with me and our general general of the gendarmes for more than half an hour. I won't cry. He said. I will stand firm, I promised the commander, and he said, "I am the father of the martyr." Now, you don't interfere with it, then you get up, sir, and the knife is up against the bone in Syria. What did you call us first? My dear brother Assad. Dear friends, let's solve our own terror problem, our security and security problem, solve our internal problems, and then we'll look outside. If there's anything, if there's an international response, let's sit down and talk about it, but to invite NATO here out of the blue... This is a duty to ensure our security, our security, the Minister is there, himself. Please, let's stop this nonsense. Whatever the state of the Republic of Turkey's attitude shows it, first let's secure it, let's keep our dignity; then if there are economic measures, social measures that we need to take, we'll take it all together here, but if you negotiate for the release of a convicted criminal's head, you can't tell the Turkish nation. I didn't do it, the government did it. Say, "It's the bastard who did it." Say, "It's the son of a bitch who did it." Say, "I sent it." It doesn't matter, it's the Turkish people who don't believe it." This is a delicate issue. Those who do it will be punished. Other than that, you distinguish between the terrorists and our citizens who live there, economic and social measures come in, and we support them, but even though negotiating with them seems to be half-wheeled, unfortunately the union is damaging our union. While people came and martyred our soldiers, there were some people here... sir, Security Intelligence said, the MIT said this, the Prime Minister said that, we're discussing it. What kind of government is that? Whose problem is the lack of coordination among these institutions? Our Home Secretary is here, the gendarme is bound to himself, the police are dependent on him, and no one knows how; there are three days of investigations, and then we're trying to find something. Please come to our senses! The state of the Republic of Turkey is a long-standing state, a state tradition; it overcomes every problem, but let's discuss what needs to be done here together, without disrupting our stance. The Capitol is the solution, this is the cradle of democracy. Not just power and democracy, my dear friends. When you say democracy, we have to find a solution by taking into account the opposition, all the communities, all the civil society institutions. So on one hand, you're doing it on your own; one unit of the government knows, the other doesn't. Then, we make a law. And then you scream, and it's the mufter who doesn't prove it. Well, then you say, "I swear, my secret cube, the secret cube of the state." Now, how does this work? I mean, I'm the Home Secretary's own department on this, plus, there's the new Undersecretary of Public Order and Security; okay, there's Anti-Terrorism, but our Deputy Prime Minister here is coming, and he's giving them a face. How are we supposed to put up an attitude? He's in charge of the angle, and now, sir, the High Council, head of the Advisory Board. Sit first in a union, and decide what to do in the government. Gather those institutions, form a policy, and if it's wrong, do it, dear! We're obviously tired, tired of following them every day, and we don't understand what you're doing. There's something different every day. Dear friends, without opposition, there is no democracy. There's no democracy by exclusion of everyone. I did it, it's not a democracy by logic. We see the laws you bring up, our friends lying on the floor laughing. The Plan and Budget Commission has returned to the General Directorate of Laws Decisions. He brings one thing in his hand, he signs two congressmen, he has no backs, no fronts, no impact analysis, nothing; we change it ten times. Listen to the voice of the opposition. Look, in democracy, our understanding of democracy is an idea of a democracy that participates in a common dialogue with all institutions, with all sections. The National Movement Party cares about democracy. He sees nationalism and democracy as twin brothers. Yeah, if there's anything in the prints, if there's injustice, illegality -- the Home Secretary is here, the law is here -- he's got to do it without giving them a chance. If there's an excess, he has to open his investigations, and he has to publicly declare them; there may be individual errors, there may be collective ones. In our understanding of democracy, there is respect for people's basic rights and freedoms, but I want democratic autonomy. In terms of this country, we don't want to live within the rules, laws of this country, we don't want it. Someone wants a federation, and if they want independence, it's not a democratic claim. You can demand individual rights and freedoms, but if you demand collective rights, that's dissolution, that's separatism, that's independence demand. For him, democracy means providing all Turkish citizens with equal rights, freedoms and guarantees. Here's the National Movement Party, a nationalist party. How do we define democracy? Public self-management. What's a people? That's the living part of the nation today. Well, how's that? For him, the National Movement Party is a democratic party and pledges to guarantee, guarantee, guarantee the income and individual rights of people in the districts of Gündoğşı and Akseki, not only of all people equally, but of other people's rights. Otherwise, it would be a violation of democracy, it would be a violation of other people's rights. Here, our idea of nationalism is never fundamentally shaped as some people try or accuse. We are a multinationalist party that has a conglomerate, embracer, culture, language union, pride, emotion, common unity, a nationalism, and our sense of nationalism is a nationalism in that sense. When we call it Turkish, it covers all ethnic origins. The Turkish national (Turkish) term does not cover those who have come from Central Asia as Turks just by their birth, but also by the citizens of the entire Republic of Turkey. As Ataturk said, the people who founded the Republic of Turkey are called the Turkish nation. But you've come to such a state that we're going to confront these adversaries... Dear friends, I heard something yesterday, a friend of ours at a convention said it in Istanbul, and frankly, I'm sorry, Mr. Home Secretary is here. There was a municipality's Miniaturk in Istanbul, and they changed its name to "Miniatur Turkey." I don't know, so let me just ask you right now... if that's the case, it's too bad. Why are you ashamed of the Turkish word? Why are you afraid of it? So, Mr. President just told us in the group, that they changed the clause in the Anti-Dark Society's charter, touching Turkish and Islam. How about that? I told you today: "We are celebrating the Happy Birth Week. " The Prophet says, "I have been sent to complete the beautiful morality. " The first thing about morality is that we have the virtue of... well, well, I don't see how you can get rid of Turkish and Islam. When he's there, aren't strangers being helped, or what? I find that hard to understand. Dear friends, on the contrary, the survival of the Turkish nation is that of the Turkish word and of the lslam. We're Turkish-Islam economists. In the past few weeks, we have been known to remember him by mercy to our Basbug, Alparslan Turkesh, our founding president, who said, "We are as Turkish as Mount God, we are as Muslim as Mount Hura." He said, "Our Turkish body is our Islamic spirit." A soulless body becomes a corpse. Now, how come we're getting so small to guarantee an election so we can make some compromises? The survival of the Turkish nation, as you've adopted, is the way to become a leading country in 2023, the superpower in 2053, and that's the way to re-empt that Turkish-Islamic civilization. When did we become Islamic civilization? When the Turks began to serve Islam, it was when they went to war for vocabulary; it was when they used intelligence. When we fell into things like this, that's when we dropped our land from millions of square miles to thousands. This is our salvation, dear friends. Let it go. We have a brotherhood. Consider the interpretation of this Buhara, consider the understanding of Yasevi, consider the words of the ruler, Jonah Emre. They say, "Let us be one, let us love from the heart." They say, "Let us be one, let us be good, let us be alive." This is our culture. He embraced all of them, embraced all their beliefs, sects, but when we gave up wisdom, knowledge, pleasure, and joy, we came to a conclusion like this. Unfortunately, the Justice and Development Party and the Government, who are responsible for this course of action, I call on them to reconsider, to take a national stance. If they do, we'll be right behind them. Hopefully, together, we will carry out these efforts to make the Turkish nation a leader. Otherwise, we're bound to end up in a very big swamp. Again, in memory of this day, the intercession of our Prophet is upon all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0048par0504	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Any of our other groups give a speech on the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0049par0506	Gökhan morning will speak.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0048par0507	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Gökhan Good morning.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0050par0509	Mr. President, I have something to say.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0048par0510	Just a second, let me finish. Mr. Ali Longırmak, since more than one person has entered...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0050par0512	The report will fall a long time later.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0048par0513	I get it, but I just called him. Wait, I thought there were no people to see. I promise you, there's more than one of you. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0051par0515	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to share with you the views of the Republican People's Party on the motion to ask about Mr. Idris Naim Şahin. İdris Naim Şahin is a member of the Turkish National Assembly since 2002, so we're talking about a minister who has been a member of parliament for ten years now. İstanbul MP from 2002 to 2007. Since 2011, he has been transferred to his hometown, the Army, and his Facebook page has been declared good luck to the Army. I think this improvement, dear friends, is a harbinger of what's to come, because Mr. Idris Naim Şahin sees the appearance of the MP from the Army as a good deed, not a good job for him, but for the Army. Think about it, the Army will finally have a congressman like Idris Naim Şahin, and the improvement of this will fall on the Facebook page of Mr. Şahin. Now, on that day -- time passed -- on July 13, 2011 -- a month after the elections, Mr. Idris Naim took the Ministry of Interior. Today is April 17, 2012; so, dear friends, we're talking about a nine-month, four-day minister -- as far as I'm concerned -- a second gene. I don't know how many more are to be given, but I must admit that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has been billed by the nation, and why have you kept such a valuable figure from us for years? Because Mr. Idris Naim Şahin is determined to rematch that long period of silence during the AKP General Secretary-General. I don't think it's possible that one of the citizens who lives in the Republic of Turkey today and who has reached a certain age could be the one who doesn't know Mr. Şahin? So these nine months and four days have been well spent, Mr. Secretary, introducing himself. However, whether this introduction is a good deed or a good deed, it is a matter of debate. Look, my dear friends, the friends who spoke before me gave me some examples, and I'm not going to repeat them, but Mr. Prime Minister did. Let me share with you what he described: of course, the ground operations began today, and it doesn't start tomorrow. Given the circumstances, it could happen at any time, it could happen today, it could happen in an hour. We haven't given it a date, and we're not giving it a date. When it is done, it is recognized, whether it is done or not. Now, friends, I'm trying to understand that in order for a person to form these sentences one after the other, he has to be trying to convey a concept, a fact that he created in the mind world. I wonder what the Minister is trying to convey to the community when he makes these words out of the lust of speech. He has a message he wants to deliver as Home Secretary, and we can't pick it up? Now, it's clear that the Prime Minister is among those who can't perceive it because he's been driven. However, these slippers don't end here. I'm going to give you another little sample, and then I'm going to close this bet. Mr. Secretary of Defense Veterans Association is visiting the Army Department and says: "Bedel is heavily paid. We can't ignore that price. The price is not child's play. It's no joke, it's no joke, it can't be serious, it can't be anything. I don't want to say the same things again now. So the Minister wants to mean something -- or why would he start these sentences -- but we're having a little trouble understanding it. Well, there's a lot to say, folks, but we're not here as a mortal to sit Mr. Home Secretary on the table and just talk about him. If we're having a serious conversation under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we should be able to make some assessments, some remarks, on the internal policy of the Justice and Development Party, represented by Mr. Şahin. For one thing, the community expects the Interior Minister to internalise the problem Turkey is facing with the Law 3152 and its field of duty given to it, to approach the facts within this framework, to talk with the citizens in this framework. If he had been able to make that introduction, Mr. Minister, he would not have tried to count our citizens who had been bombed by a bomb in Kızılay. Look, it's not a distraction, because what you're saying to a citizen is that you're actually having trouble seeing him as a human being, because in law school, people are told about things that aren't unique. We have a sergeant named Erhan Ar. We can't find the body parts of our 24 soldiers at the time of their martyrdom, and he says, "Mr. Secretary, "the body parts have been found." He says that he can identify a martyr as part of a body, that he cannot internalise the sensitivities of the community in which the Home Secretary lives and the responsibility given to him. For him, we don't dwell on a simple syntax error. If the Minister could feel how the families of this country spend their nights below minus 20 degrees, he wouldn't be able to make a joke as he walks around the tent. I can see the deep sadness in the eyes of the president of the Religious Affairs he was traveling with on TV when he was being made that court joke because anyone can see that it's not a palace, it's not a palace, it's a minimum standard. I'm going to finish up here with two current issues. According to the minister, pepper spray is not harmful. Pepper spray is so harmless that they always get pepper spray with new bids, and the police use it out of place. Look, if the ministers in the Republic of Turkey claim that something is harmless -- and there was a time when the Minister, who claimed that the radiation tea was harmless -- sat down and drank that tea; then it became clear that the radiation had done very serious damage in the Black Sea -- I suggest to him: Let the police take one of our friends across the community, and let them spray the pepper gas in his face from half a meter, and the body will react with at least a tear. Why are you crying? Because your body is reacting to that pepper spray, that poison. Especially if you have, like, a heart condition, if you have a variety of problems like respiratory disease, that pepper spray can be lethal to you. As a matter of fact, dear friends have been transferred to independent medical reports in which our citizens over 10, over ten years, lost their lives due to this excessive use of pepper gas. What do I mean by that? Is pepper spray a measure? As a friend of yours who knows the taste of pepper gas, the intensity of pepper spray, if you're going to use it, if there are groups of people who are trying to disrupt the public order, for example, to prevent the right to gather and march, if there are groups in the street that are conditioned to commit murder, then it could mean a process for public benefit. Look, my friends, our friend, five TEDASEL officers in Erzurum Province of Ashkale district, enter on a frozen lake on a lake bicycle, assuming they're on duty and responsible, trying to repair that electrical failure, and they fall into the lake on a sea bike, and we can tell by the images of the cell phone that for two hours, they're dead in that frozen lake. I'll tell you first, Minister of the Interior, why don't those two hours, while those friends are at the ice-cold lake, they can't launch a rescue operation with a helicopter? Have you ever heard of the responsibility of doing so? If you hadn't heard this sentence... you'd have gone to Ashkale, you'd have gone from Ashkale to Payler, which is two hours in between -- so you'd be going to another distance for two hours after a visit to condolences, and there's a 60-year-old citizen coming to you -- his name is Mustafa Bullchay -- Mr. Minister, I'm so glad to see you. I suppose it's a love sentence for a citizen: I'm so glad to see you. Friends, where in the world is such arrogance? I'm asking you: "I'm so glad to see you in what dictatorial land. I'm so glad to see you, not a minister, not a dictator." How do I know, how do I know you're happy? Let me see you do a flip. I'll ask your consciences which country could have such a thing. If you want to put on your sunglasses and tell me that you're happy looking down on the citizen, then do a flip. To be able to say that, it's not for anyone to be Minister of the Republic of Turkey. Pointing out: this is not a mispronouncement of a syntax; this is a matter of reading a life; this is the expression of deep arrogance against a citizen that can no longer be hidden. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, it's April 17, 2012. On 17 April 1940, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey established village institutes with Law 3803. Children who studied at these institutes built their own schools, grew their own wheat, learned to play the violin, and learned to calculate mathematics. When a different menu comes out to a Prime Minister because he's a diabetic, why don't the students who work at that village institute, the students who study, eat from the menu we eat? Why is another menu being produced to the Prime Minister? They asked him questions and questioned him. This is why we shut down these village institutes, and this is why we raised citizens who swore allegiance instead of citizens who questioned them, who are you, Mustafa Bullchayir? Guys, I'm the one who gave you that power of attorney. How dare you ask me that question? He did not say, and he tried to play with the instrument you played. (HPP cheers) This is the most obvious expression of the sad situation in which Turkey was brought into it. Dear friends, once again, we're not just talking about the identity of the Home Secretary. Actually, we're, uh, we're talking about Ministry of Interior policy here. Because, for example, because they're asking for the right to organize, for example, for free education, it's an internal policy that students get pepper sprayed half a meter in the face, that they should be held in F-type prisons for 24 months. Mr. Prime Minister says there is no Kurdish problem, but there is a problem with Kurds. He says right behind him, the Home Minister jumps on that train. He says: "I don't look at the Starstone; I don't look at it from Şishli, I don't look at it from where I'm standing, there's a Kurdish problem. They say, I look at it too. If you can't see it, Mr. Minister, let's see who did it with the people who did it before you, who did it with the Deputy Minister of Interior, who did it, what did it with whom did they meet at the Ataturk Forest Farm? What did you do in Habur? Be careful, Hakan Fidan, Emre Taner, Disaster Sun, often holding hands and going on vacation to Oslo. Wonder what they were doing over there. Are they there to discuss or discuss the matter you ignore? I wonder who you've agreed to 95% of the time. How long will this hypocritical policy go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on How long can this hypocritical policy last? I'm running out of time, and I'd like to point out a few basics. The Ministry of Interior has a administrative guardianship authority issued to him by the Constitution (the Constitution) and Law 3152. This administrative guardianship authority is not an open-ended, discretionary authority, it is a binding authority. So you're going to use your administrative custody authority for public good, the integrity and continuity of the service. I asked you, and I said, "How do you use this administrative guardianship authority among the city municipalities?" Can you give me a transcript of this? I'm telling you, right now there are 96 people in İzmir Metropolitan Municipality, including eight property inspectors, eight Court inspectors, 52 tax inspectors, eight special prosecutors, and 20 inspectors. So Izmir Metropolitan Mayor opens the mayor's door every morning with 100 other people, closing with 100 others. In the same time period, how many people do you inspect Istanbul for $14 million, when you are inspecting Izmir (Izmir) with 100 people? I'll tell you: seven estate inspectors, 13 Court inspectors, 20 total. How many people do you check Ankara with? A total of 10 people. So basically, 100 as far as Izmir, 10 as Ankara, 20 as far as Istanbul. That's what you call custody authority, is it? By discrediting people, by making sure that you didn't put a nickel into your pocket even in the indictment, by discrediting the people you couldn't write it to, you run an operation on the calendar set to 2014, and by which you say, [[Applause from CHP rows]] You know what your own officer says? One cop friend of ours says that on May 1st, we were told that we'd be in Istanbul at 2am at 2am. We were already on duty a day ago, working 1+1. I came at seven in the morning, we started at two in the taxi. It's 10:00 in the morning, people are starting to pack. We've been up since the morning before, they haven't given us a cup of tea or water or a piece of bread until morning. I remember the last phone call from 13.20. The next morning, I woke up at my house at 5:00 to go to work. When I came home, I can't remember what happened the other day. Anyway, I went to work, that's different. When they let us go, when we go home -- our brains are locked up at some point -- none of us remember. We went and thought we'd have breakfast at a bakery. I saw myself on TV at the bakery, kicking a woman on the floor. I don't even remember doing that. All my friends were on TV that day, and one of them was tearing the baton off one's back, and one of them dragged a woman by the hair.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0052par0539	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0051par0540	Can I have a minute?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0052par0541	No, you can't. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0051par0543	So let me finish my words: This is part of AKP's internal policy for children to spray pepper spray on people and kick and hurt people on the ground. He's not a cop, he's the governor, he's the Home Secretary. For him, history won't forgive it, and it's not just a gene, but as a historical record, I think it'll live in all of our memories. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0052par0546	Thank you, Mr. Morning. Mr. Longhorn, here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0053par0550	Thank you, Mr. President. In a group speech, Minister of Interior İdris Naim Şahin had made a statement about Mr. Ismet Sezgin and Nahit Menteşe, former ministers of Aydın lawmakers and former ministers. First of all, I'd like to point out that I'm condemning the fact that there is such an accusation about former politicians who have no way of defending themselves. Second, they are important political people who have served democracy, nation and state, who have dealt with coups and obligations. I'm stating that I don't agree with the reputation of these people, and I'd like to file a report. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0054par0555	Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0055par0557	Thank you, Mr. President. A minister who flips the citizens, counts the dead, doesn't use the word "peace," I'll tag 75,000 people as traitors and drown them with a suffocation. He says, "You live in a tent at minus 20 degrees." A minister who says, "The fate of Turkey should not be the fate of Turkey." Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit01spe0056par0560	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0056par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 95th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume our discussion of the motion for the geneorization of Mr. Idris Naim Şahin, Minister of the Interior. Now it's time for the Justice and Development Party Tekirdağ MP, Mr. Tevfik Ziyaeddin Akbuut. Here you are, Mr. Akbulut.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0057par0009	Mr. President, I've made a commitment to Mr. Idris Naim Şahin, the Minister of the Interior, whether or not his client should be brought to the agenda by the Peace and Democracy Party. On behalf of my party and on behalf of myself, I salute you all. As I begin my words -- the week in which we are in -- the birthday of the Prophet of Mercy, so I remember him with mercy and honor. It is also the 19th year of the death of the late Ozal. Therefore, I bless him and our eighth president. My dear friends, the Peace and Democracy Party of our Home Secretary, I believe, in November 15th, gave us a motion for that kind of gene. Of course, the gene is one of the most important control mechanisms of the opposition, but it has to be used in time and place, or if the stone you throw away isn't worth the frog you're scaring off, then the effect of these motions of the gene is also wearing off. So, on the other hand, why was it given so often? We have an proverb: the fruit tree is stoned. It means our Minister is really doing it and has criticism. A person who acts is certainly criticized. My dear friends, I have carefully read the motion to ask you to remind me of some of the chapters that have not occurred in any of the Newroz holidays, which have been allowed and celebrated with enthusiasm in the last decade. The right to a meeting and demonstration without prior permission under Articles 10 and 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Articles of the Constitution of the 34th and 90th Articles of the Constitution is one of the basic rights and freedoms within the framework of EU integration laws and reforms. During the 10 years of the EC PARTY's rulings, within March 21st and week, our party celebrated Newroz's holiday. It continues, meaning the previous applications for the celebration of the Nevroz. In fact, my friends, I would like to focus on this matter of Nevroz. I've looked at the Ligats, I've been on the Ministry of Culture websites. The truth of the matter is that it comes from Farsi as of origin. The new meaning is called the "new day," which is called the "day," which consists of the unification of these two words and means "new day." Mr. President, my dear friends, we, the Justice and Development Party, are a party that argues that there is no social freedom without individual freedoms. Let man live so that the state may live. We embrace the principle. We continue to lift the bans one by one and face taboos, dark spots of our past. Unfortunately, there was no permit in this country to celebrate Nevruz for years before the AK PARTI powers, as mentioned in the gene. Now, as mentioned in the gene, for about ten years, we've been very comfortable in our country, and we've been under security measures, so why do we ever question this year's unwanted events? All around the world, it's the accepted day of Nevruz, March 21st. No, I will not celebrate this day on March 21st, but I will celebrate it earlier. The ministry has prepared everything for March 21st, and on the contrary, it has encouraged the celebration in this country.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0058par0017	We celebrate a week each year, Congressman, not just this year.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0057par0018	Look, I'm reading from the Minister's generalization, Mr. Secretary, in his general statement, that Nevruz was accepted as the beginning of a new year, and was celebrated on March 21st through the holiday weather. The neurosis, the symbol of abundance and fertility, also has different but complementary functions in our society. The Nevruz appears as a festival of mutual love and respect among people, brotherly embrace, tradition, customs, beliefs, by making people forget resentment. In order to celebrate the festival weather of the Nevruz on March 21st, it must be carried out with events that will enable the participation of different segments under the name rally, feast and festival of various political parties or civil society organisations. He's encouraging, and he wants the best celebration this year...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0058par0020	Is that why this happened, because it was so encouraging?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0057par0021	...and in the context of many measures, it states that either in our country or in the whole world, special day or holiday celebrations are held at the appointed time. Celebrating outside of the appointed dates suggests that the purpose of that particular day has been out of bounds. In order for the purpose and meaning of their celebration to be carried out in peace and tranquility, the construction of employment measures, the taking of necessary security and security measures, the taking of legal procedures against those who are being subjected to unlawful action, the Minister means that measures should be taken to celebrate the nevruz. Then what happened? Look, I'm going to read a report by the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality: A large number of public transportation vehicles have been damaged during the events of Istanbul's Nevruz celebrations. In the course of the events, 39 buses were stoned by demonstrators along with 14 others on the subway line. Five extradition governors on the subway line, an AKBIL device, a security mono, one racquet glass, 42 overpass windows found on the overpass and on the overpass ramp, were broken by protestors on the E-5 bus stop windows. In fact, 42 bus stops were torn apart by demonstrators from the new door to the beach. The transport was damaged by demonstrators and several windows were broken by the six tram cars on the light tram line of the Istanbul subway. Many token sales machines and tourniquets have become useless. It's the city's losses. On Sunday (March 18, 2012), despite all measures taken by the police, civil citizens, buses, businesses, I will read a report of the damage done to them: on Sunday (March 18, 2012), the district of Oliveburnu was injured in the Kazlıçme Square and across our district, in a total of 111 police officers who were injured during the demonstrations, at 81 houses and workplaces -- 56 official buildings owned by private individuals -- and 45 official vehicles. A total of 173 people have been arrested and brought to trial as a result of interference by security forces in illegal acts. Here's the police report. Guys, this is this year's balance sheet from March 18th. Now, what are the police going to do about it?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0059par0026	How many people have you killed? How many people did you hurt? How many people have you tortured?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0057par0027	What will the Ministry of Internal Affairs do in the face of these events?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0059par0028	Finish it, it's missing! It's missing, it's missing!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0057par0029	Here, in the face of these events, if the police hadn't used proportional force, if they'd been exposed to so much damage, believe me, the consequences would have been much more severe. My dear friends, it is now said in the motion of the geneor, that such meetings can be held without permission, according to Article 34 of our constitution and Articles 10, 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The right, meeting and demonstration march is a right, a fundamental right; it is very important to use it. I read the 34th article of our Constitution: Everyone has the right to hold an unarmed and non-aggressive march without prior permission. The right to a meeting and demonstration march can only be restricted by law and by law to prevent national security, public order, crime, general health and general morality or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others. What does this contract say I'm talking about? The 10th article, the first joke: ▪ Everyone has freedom of expression and expression to express their opinions and to bear duty and responsibility to be used, such freedoms can be linked to certain forms, restrictions, and sanctions that are set up by law to protect public safety, to maintain public order and to prevent criminal conduct, to protect health or morality, to protect the dignity and rights of others, or to ensure the authority and neutrality of the judicial power of others. The 11th article, however, has a similar sentence. Now, friends, of course, this basic right will be used, but the use of this is both valid in the world, and our Constitution is subject to some legal rights, limits. So now, a story came to me here: they ask Beyamamaz: "Why don't you say your prayers?," he says: "The Qur'an is in the Qur'an." There's a... there's a... there's So don't come near the prayer. Well, there's a continuation of that, too. When you're drunk and drunk, don't go near the prayer. When they say, "I'm not sorry, I don't know that much." Right, now that's a right. In our Constitution and other international contracts, that fundamental right is valid, of course, but then there's the second joke, and then there's the third joke. This right is limited to laws, regulations in all countries for the protection of public order, general health. But when those rights become a negative influence on other people's lives, they cease to be rights and can become a crime, unfortunately. (x) In these chapters, words were expressed by the Minister in a non-English language. The Interior Minister is in charge of ensuring public order in Turkey. So it's a generalization -- in any case to me -- that's a decision that's published in matufic. Now, I'd like to bring up a little bit of KESK's protests on protests: also about KESK's protests, friends, there's a restraining order from Ankara Governorate. Thus, to those who came to Ankara for this trend, the police have stated that they would not come again under this authority, that such a meeting would not happen, but would have been illegally, without permission... that Ankara Governorate is delaying the application of KESK. However -- there are groups -- a group of 3,900 people who are trying to march to Parliament. No meetings can be held near the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- you know -- within a mile of 2911, under the Law for Meetings and Demonstration Marches. The police are interfering, carrying out their duties, and thus do not allow such a demonstration. My dear friends, in recent years -- really -- there have been very important regulations in Turkey's internal security. Look, in 2006-2011, there have been reports of significant reductions in manslaughter crimes in the six-year period, including reduced 50 per cent, a 66 per cent reduction in muggings, auto theft, auto theft, theft, and pickpocketing. Here, I can tell you that since Mr. Minister -- really -- has come to the Ministry, there have been some very positive results in the fight against terrorism, which is one of our biggest problems today. We see on TV every day that some of the breakouts between security forces have been removed, along with our armed forces, with the police, with the gendarmes, and a new concept in the fight against terrorism has been developed, and there have been some really successful results in the fight against terrorism. So here, my dear friends, the respected speakers before me, they said, "Why is Mr. Prime Minister traveling around the world?" Friend, our Prime Minister is a world leader.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0060par0043	What world, the other world!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0057par0044	For the sake of Turkey's reputation, Turkey's future, and Turkey's exports of 134 billion really took place, travel to improve Turkey's reputation. Earlier, unfortunately, like the prime ministers, some leaders don't have their hands and knees in front of them. Turkey has become a very prestigious country in its region, and therefore larger countries no longer make decisions without Turkey's word being taken, without Turkey being asked. My dear friends, there have been some assessments of the Kurdish issue. Friends have expressed the presence of such a perception problem in our country without sweeping the Kurdish problem under the carpet like the previous leaders before us, and there have been very important work done in our time to overcome such a problem. TRT Şeş (TRT) has made significant improvements in the opening of special courses and economic development of the region. Now, my dear friends, if I have to make a final assessment of this client, Mr. Secretary has used the powers vested in him by the law, and as a result of an imposition this year, not on March 21st, we must celebrate it earlier. Turkey is a state of law, my friends. In Turkey, everything works according to the law, the Constitution, and the rules. So I don't know the law, I do the meeting and demonstration walk whenever I want, or I should always be allowed to do it. No one should ever have an understanding, because Turkey has a law on this issue, 2911, about freedom of meetings and demonstration walks. It's a right, and I admit it, of course we all agree, we have to. There is a legal regulation on how to use this right. If the Minister is publishing a general order in order to comply, it must be respected by the parties, persons and NGOs. Thus, the restrictions imposed on both cases of neurosis and the actions of KESK are not a ban, but on the purpose of public order and security, and on the purpose of intelligence, according to some intelligence information, some direction, limits, and are under the authority of the Ministry and relevant governorships. Therefore, Mr. Interior Minister İdris Naim is reporting that we will vote as our group against the agenda of the motion for the motion to be passed on on to him, and I offer all of you with love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0061par0049	Thank you, Mr. Akbulut. On behalf of the government, Minister of the Interior, Mr. İdris Naim Şahin. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0053	Mr. President, I salute you all at this meeting, on the basis of the 3rd and 4th motion by the Peace and Democracy Party. Mr. President, my dear congressman friends have shared the subject of the motion with you and our great nation by reading from the text of Mr. Akbulut, our esteemed MP, who has just spoken on behalf of the Justice and Development Party. The motion, in essence, includes the objection and criticism of the measures of the neurosis celebrations that we applied as the Ministry before and after a period of time in our country and the world last month, and a week after that, the opposition and criticism of the measures of labour unions, civil unions, jointly and the Peace and Democracy Party, which is likely to result in the occupation of parliament, and the prevention and control of the demonstration march. Mr. Akbulut, they have made it very clear that the European Convention on Human Rights was paid in the Constitution. But as always, the Party of Peace and Democracy is not trying to use the Constitution on these matters, but the European Convention on Human Rights, not the European Convention on Human Rights, but its own understanding, its own right to do what it wants, its own freedom, and it's trying to use it. And that, of course, is a requirement of their existence, of their nature, of their duty, essentially, and I don't mind at all. Dear MPs, nevruz, new day, new season, spring day, and week, even bear. It is celebrated according to its location in April, and celebrated according to its geography, according to its season, in May. I know that some of my Istanbul residents who emigrated from Crimea in Çakca district celebrate the rest of the day of Nevruz, as well. There's nothing anyone can say about that. I wish we could celebrate more, celebrate more, celebrate more, 70 million, 80 million, all together. As a matter of fact, our man celebrates this day, this season, spring, without naming it in any other way, and enjoys the joy of spring. In its own way, we have respect, respect for its land, respect for its country, respect for its law, and respect for its rights law, and respect for all those who celebrate their special days in its village, in its city, in its city, everywhere, in this country, we have love. But if you want to make an excuse for something, we're kind of in the name of a separatist organization in those days, where streets are occupied, sidewalks are pulled up, bus stops are occupied, buses are burned, trains are burned, trees are burned, people are beaten, they're insulted, they're insulted, they're in this country, they're in this country, they're in this country, they're in this town, they're in the name of a separatist organization. If they want to be given a message, they're not in this place, they're not in the name of failure, they're in the name of the name of the people, they're in the name of the name of a revolution, they're in the name of what we're doing, they're doing, they're in the name of an opportunity, they're in the name of what we're doing. So, how did you know that you had brought order to the nevruza without being disturbed; on March 21, everyone can celebrate, but on March 18, 19, 20, 22, 23, there will be no celebrations. Where did you get your decision on the basis of national security, on the grounds of public order? The question may come to mind. Dear friends, respected lawmakers, we have learned this subject by listening to the advice decisions taken by the Kurdish group, which is understood in Turkish as part of the KCK, which is the spokesman for the organisation's Peace and Democracy Party.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0063par0059	Who did you learn it from, Mr. Secretary, explain.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0060	That's why we had to take that precaution. So, we took precautions, what happened? We've taken precautions, BDP and its extensions haven't stopped. Again, by deceiving, scaring, encouraging innocent people in some way, they tried illegally to put them on the streets, into the squares, starting on March 18th. Did they make it? As far as their targets are concerned, they didn't make it. If you say ten thousand million here, like Mr. Sakik, they succeeded, as always, by twisting everything, twisting numbers, as in the example of talking numbers, it was accomplished, but not according to our intel.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0063par0061	We did it, Mr. Secretary, despite your ban.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0062	So, what happened? What happened that day? On Sunday (March 18th) in Istanbul, Diyarbakır, here, my dear friends, my beloved nation, the valued MPs; the buses were burned. Whose buses are these? Your people. Who rides these buses? I haven't seen many of our BDP deputies get on, and maybe they do. People ride, people ride.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0064par0063	We're getting in, we're getting in, don't worry! We are where our people are.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0064	What else happened?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0065par0065	You walk on the red carpet!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0066	What else happened? On that day, yes, in Diyarbakir, the communications devices, their equipment, were burned. Innocence celebration!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0066par0067	Show me the gas bombs you dropped from the helicopter! Show me your air strike!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0068	I think it was built to light a fire and jump over it. What happened that day?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0067par0070	Hadji Rich has been slaughtered!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0071	What happened that day? Here, these fires have been lit. Cars were burned, in Diyarbakir.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0068par0072	Show me how you killed the rich man! Show me what you've done!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0073	What happened that day? Someone's been led to the shops, and counters and materials have been destroyed at the innocent shopkeeper's shop. What happened that day? In Istanbul, our eyeballs were burned in Istanbul, trees! What mentality is that? What kind of understanding is that? What's the catch, I'll be right back.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0069par0075	Prohibition is the product of mentality! It's the result of your policies, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0076	What happened that day? That's what the bus stops are made of. What happened that day? There, the modern, modern bus stops were rocked, the sidewalks ripped out. What happened that day?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0070par0079	Is there a picture of the Haji Rich, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0080	Yeah, yeah, that was the day. Let me show you some over here. What happened that day? Here, the police car was thrown at people. Whose car is this? It's the government. Whose government is this? This nation.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0071par0082	This state is yours, it seems!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0083	Where do you get these? From abroad, from abroad, anyway... these are bought with money, right? It's paid for. Okay. Such a celebration of the Nevruz. If we hadn't done the intel, hundreds of these pictures we've shown, thousands of them...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0072par0085	None of it would have happened, none of it!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0073par0086	None of this would have happened!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0087	Thousands of them would face the pain we experienced in Turkey as reality.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0074par0088	You banned it, you attacked it.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0089	What happened that day?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0074par0090	You attacked the people, you killed them, you made them like this.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0091	What happened back then? What happened back then, my dear friends?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0074par0092	It's the Gestapo way. That's right, you used gestapo methods.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0093	Dear friends, that day and so on...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0074par0094	What do you know about freedom?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0095	In Adana, Mersin, they found explosives, handmade explosives, and bombs. One or two of the poor children who had prepared a bomb for 21 ▪ blew up in his hand, and lost his life. What happened to those days? On March 20th, in Şırnak, Cizre, police officers serving to protect the people from the building of the Peace and Democracy Party with long barreled weapons...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0074par0097	You're lying. You're lying as a minister.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0098	I'm not you. You do that lie very well.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0074par0099	You're lying. Get the MOBESE cameras, show them to Congress. You're a liar!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0100	...shots were fired with Kalashnikovs.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0074par0101	Bring them out.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0075par0102	Mr. Kaplan, please...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0103	... andourcop...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0074par0104	You're a liar!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0075par0105	Mr. Kaplan, please...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0106	Our police officer, as a human shield...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0074par0107	Find the perpetrators instead of lying. Why can't you find it?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0108	... hedidn'tshootto shootthekids standing in front of the shooter.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0074par0109	Oh, yeah? It's got CCTV cameras all over it. Find the perpetrators.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0110	Which one is humanity? Which one's out of date? Which one is cave-age? I give you my compliments.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0074par0112	You're gasting into the party building. Go on, find it. Why didn't you find it? Are you weak?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0113	And this policeman was martyred, martyred the evening of that day. We have an officer from Adana, Ahmet Yuroğlu. I suppose we'll have to ask you to account for Ahmet Orkoğlu and our other martyrs.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0074par0115	You killed him. If you can't find the perpetrator, it's in you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0116	And there's someone in all this.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0076par0117	You're a murderer, killer!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0118	Look...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0077par0120	Not if it's in you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0121	There's one person in that big round with a Molotov cocktail in his hand, someone in that big round with a Molotov cocktail. If you come into the little circles there, yes...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0077par0123	Come on, come on, come on.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0124	...there's a female MP in the group right now.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0077par0125	Show me how you got into the Cizre county building.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0126	...the militant square, the meeting, the Party of Peace and Democracy, have been in a position to encourage all these illegal demonstrations, all these provocations. Did they do it on purpose? No, they didn't mean to. I know, because after we published the generalization of the nevruz, a dialogue between them: -I won't name it, MPs -- either it's a good thing that the Minister published this. The square, the city, the city, we'd be devastated. We'll get this done in a day. They're the ones who say, "That's great." They don't want to, because they have to, because they're not free, they're connected.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0078par0128	There's one free man, and that's you!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0079par0129	You're the one who's not free!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0130	Where's that place? As our Prime Minister said, they have masters and they're tied to them by a rope. They're pulling, they're pulling, they're dropping, they're moving. They take orders, they take orders.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0080par0132	You did it just like a gestapo, gestapo! You were no different from the Gestapo that day.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0133	As a matter of fact, Mr. Kaplan and I think Mr. Buldan gave us one, just like before.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0080par0135	That's right! That's right! Because of you...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0136	Then they gave up what happened.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0080par0137	Is it up to you? Is it up to you, your pleasure, to wish you a celebration?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0138	Then the order came back, and they gave it back, and we're back in your presence.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0080par0140	Get out of here!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0141	I don't have anything to say to the Peace and Democracy Party, actually, as a party. To the MPs...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0081par0143	You can't!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0144	I'll never be able to thank you or thank you for all the work they've given the country and all the work they've done. There's one exception: these questions, dear friends, I didn't thank you for these questions last time.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0082par0145	You play, Minister, you play! That's what they call you, you know?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0146	I thank you twice this time, because thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to tell me about the Peace and Democracy Party and its background.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0083par0147	What's in your background?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0082par0148	You play, Minister, you play! Don't talk, play! You'd look good in the game! You can't talk when you talk!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0149	Dear friends, we have a lot on our mind when we say Peace and Democracy Party. But I don't want to keep you busy with a lot of things, a little bit of things -- it seems like time is running out -- I'd like to keep you informed. There's a structure I told you about last time. Good morning, and I have a lot to say to you, but it's because of your false knowledge.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0084par0151	I'm waiting!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0152	Yes, you are. Thank you. I'll tell you if there's a time.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0084par0153	Please take your time!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0085par0154	Don't play, Mr. Secretary, it'll be better, it'll be better.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0155	The Peace and Democracy Party, according to the KCK's main contract, is united with its municipalities and its entire parallel NGOs, and the Hierarchical Party of Peace and Democracy is not on top of it, is in the middle. It's an extension of that cursed structure that's been occupied for 30 years in order to divide and destroy this country, where the Peace and Democracy Party is connected to its organic connection.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0085par0156	You're a prosecutor? Are you a minister or a prosecutor?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0157	What is this structure? What is the essence of this structure? Today, I would like to share this structure with my dear nation and you, the esteemed lawmakers. The symbols of Zarathustism and Yezidilism on the walls of the Mitanni Cultural Centre, built by the BDP in 2008...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0086par0158	You are Yezidi, and you are Zarathustra!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0085par0159	You're Yazid, you're Yazid, you know that? Those who insult the faith and insult the faith of others are also despicable! You're making vile speeches! Shame on you, shameless!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0160	What is this structure? This structure is this photograph, this structure, aimed at the PKK's first attempt to remove its members from Islam.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0085par0161	You're just passed out enough to make fun of your beliefs here.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0087par0162	Mr. Kaplan, please...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0163	What is this structure? This structure, dear friends, is a picture, a form of life that the PKK terrorist group has taken to the mountain by deceiving, kidnapping, taking it across the border, taking it abroad, training its people. There is no Islamic faith in this structure. The only essence of this structure is not to become a Muslim first; two, not to belong to any religion, but to the non-religious nature.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0088par0165	What does that have to do with anything, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0166	The point is, if we look at this picture, we'll see.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0089par0167	You're a fraud! You're a liar and a fraud!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0088par0168	Shame, shame! It's unforgivable to insult the faith so much.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0169	If we look at this picture, we'll see, we'll see about it, you'll see.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0088par0170	The AKP also applauds you. I thought you said you were a believer.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0090par0171	A lying, dishonest minister. It doesn't suit you. You're a liar and a fraud!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0172	And this is not a sheep that was strangled here, but a sheep that was slaughtered here on the plateau, but friends, who are the pigs that the organization hunts down and recommends to its members the food they eat.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0090par0173	Kurdish people are religious. Tens of thousands in civilian Friday prayers. This liar, this impostor, is insulting here! He's insulting the Kurds!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0091par0174	Mr. Kaplan, please, Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0176	Dear friends, this structure is a structure that destroys faith and offends the faith, morality, honor of my Kurdish brother. There is a false prayer, and there is a mockery, and there is a fasting, and there are false imams.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0090par0178	You're a fraud!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0062par0179	There are imams in the pocket of fake money.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0090par0180	Mr. President, step in with the Minister, he's insulting the Kurdish people, the Muslim Kurdish people, on Kutlu Birth Week.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0092par0181	Wait a second...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0090par0182	He can't insult you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0092par0183	One second... one second...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0093par0184	Dear friends, there are some people in this building who call themselves the descendants of the Zarathustra grandkids.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0094par0185	You're so pathetic!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0093par0186	Dear friends, the foundation of this structure is President Apo, the prophet of the Kurds. This is the building, my dear friends, my dear nation.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0095par0188	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0093par0189	From this structure, from the extension of this structure, no good has ever come to this country. And my Kurdish brother, he's been through a lot of this structure for 30 years, and he's been through a lot. In that 30 years agriculture and livestock have gone down, because of this structure, the border trade has not been made, because of this structure, the industrial facilities have not been built, because of this structure, the entrepreneurs haven't invested because of this structure...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0096par0191	Why did you contact this structure?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0093par0192	...commerce has been vacationed because of this structure, and because of this structure, the shutters are always closed, and we're going to answer for the closed shutters. They're uncomfortable because of this structure.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0096par0193	Why did you compromise with this structure?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0093par0194	And if it weren't for the lost lives, the flowing blood, the tears, the bloody organization behind you, there'd be more money in my Kurdish brother's pocket today, more crops in his field, more plants in his country, and more factories in his city. You don't have this, you have to answer for it. We have to do this math. What have you done in 30 years but destroy, burn, destroy the sidewalks, destroy the roads, and shed blood? [[BDP rows keep hitting rows of lids]] You're still hitting me. People see you, it's people's turn.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0097par0197	We came at the will of this nation, by the will of this nation!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0093par0198	But you will never break those ranks with your hands, as you have no power over anything.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0098par0201	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. Your time is up, thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0099par0202	Mr. Secretary, there's a clock in front of you, you don't have to look back, it's in the left corner.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0100par0203	Time's up.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0101par0204	Thank you. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0102par0207	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0103par0208	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0104par0209	Mr. President, in the speech of the two MPs, it's a good thing he said so. He admitted that the MPs had tapped his phone. That's exactly how I want this to go down on the record. He said, "The two MPs are talking to each other in their own mouth." Now, he's got to pay for this before he gets off the street.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0105par0210	I'll hold on a minute.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0106par0211	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0104par0212	Aren't you ashamed to hear two congressmen speak?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0107par0213	If you've got some dignity, explain it to me now!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0104par0214	As Speaker of the House, you must give a warning. Why are you listening to the MPs' phones, on what court order, on what law? Explain it, explain it, explain it!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0108par0216	On what court order? Explain, explain!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0104par0217	Tell me, come on, tell me.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0109par0218	Now, Mr. Commander...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0108par0219	Tell me if you have the heart!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0110par0220	Tell me, shameless man! Shameless man!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0111par0221	Mr. President, he has to explain, he has to explain.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0112par0222	Go ahead and say it.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0113par0223	Wait a second... Now, Mr. Group Vice President was saying something. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0114par0226	First Mr. Ahmet Türk.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0115par0227	First Mr. Ahmet Türk, then I'll take it on behalf of the group.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0113par0228	Mr. Turk, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0116par0229	Mr. President, the Home Secretary...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0115par0230	Mr. President, independently...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0116par0231	Wait a minute! [AK PARTY APPLAUSE]), noise]
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0117par0232	I can't hear you, please... Mr. Turk...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0118par0234	He's our brother, he does it, he gets punched, he'll teach you a lesson.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0117par0235	Mr. Turk, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0119par0236	He insulted the faith of our people by bringing up Friday prayers. I want to promise to pick on you for this.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0117par0237	Mr. Turk, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0119par0241	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have been in this Parliament for years, and I have never seen this kind of understanding, this kind of talk, that offends the people, that makes their beliefs offended. The Minister needs to apologize to our people.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0120par0243	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0117par0244	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0119par0245	Look, listen, please, at that Friday prayer, 5,000 people in every district, every county, 10,000 people in every city were doing their Friday prayer. Now...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0121par0246	The public is sincere.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0119par0247	Yes, he was doing it with sincerity, conviction. No one can teach Kurds religion. Let's have a religious discussion here. Does a Fatiha know how to read? (Applause from BDP rows) If Fatiha can read, then let him mock the people's feelings, their beliefs. Come here, let the Minister come here and tell you what a Fatiha is to be read at a funeral. It's like he's so religious! Fascists, racists can't be religious.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0122par0249	The PKK is a fascist.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0119par0250	In our religion, brotherhood is a different thing. The President of the Religious Affairs told me yesterday that brotherhood is rightfully in law. If you take away a people's rights and law, that brotherhood means nothing. If you want brotherhood, you will respect the religion, culture, identity of our people who have lived in this land for a thousand years. (Applause from BDP rows) This is how brotherhood is provided, not in a different way. By denying, rejecting, ignoring... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you can't provide unity, unity, brotherhood in this country. Actually...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0123par0254	Know your fucking place! Who are you telling to sit down?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0124par0255	Don't be rude. You won't be rude. You will be respectful, respectful!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0119par0256	...you're not going to...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0124par0258	Take care of your MPs, Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0125par0259	You can't say that.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0119par0260	Look, lawmakers, when there's not a single person in Batman, when there's not a single civilian... [[The voices of the AK PARTY have gone out.]] Don't be rude!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0126par0263	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0127par0264	It's gone. We're saying it's not rude.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0128par0265	Mr. Turk, I promised not to pick on you. I've given you as much time as I've given everyone.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0129par0266	Now the footage's gone. There's cops there, there's the cop we got into his car with.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0130par0267	He's telling us about Batman, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0129par0268	Mr. Secretary says we can't find the puncher. This government has a three-star commissioner. Let's get a statement from the cops over there. The cop we got into his car with is there as long as he investigates it, he shows up.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0131par0269	Thank you, Mr. Turk.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0129par0270	But if he threatens, we'll never accept it. The Home Secretary can't threaten us here by taking power from such a state. We do not ask any reckoning. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0131par0273	Mr. Turk, thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0132par0274	What account are you going to ask? What's the score?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0129par0275	Don't be rude! Don't be rude!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0131par0276	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0133par0277	Mr. President, the Home Office has agreed that we're all tapped into our phones.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0134par0278	He's lying!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0135par0279	Mr. President, by mentioning my name in person...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0136par0280	Now, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0137par0281	By what authority is he tapping the congressman's phone? By bringing in the transcripts, he thinks...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0136par0282	Now, all these things you've said, all those who carried on the conversation that Mr. Bashul had started, they've all gone to the transcripts, that's one. Now, I promised Mr. Turk without teasing, two. If you'll excuse me, I'll call Mr. Kaplan, and he's taking the liberty of taunting his group, is that correct?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0138par0285	That's right.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0139par0286	Mr. President, the MPs...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0136par0287	I'll take care of them. I'll take a break. I can't.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0140par0288	Mr. President, he mentioned it in name.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0136par0289	Well, Reverend, all right, sit down. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0141par0292	Mr. President, justice and freedom are too sacred to be left at the mercy of security forces and such an irresponsible minister. (AK PARTY desks) And there came a minister who couldn't know what he was talking about, and he insulted the beliefs of millions of Kurds. During the Happy Birth Week, one strengthens one's brothers and sisters, and does not discriminate. Who sees his tongue, his identity, his faith, his ability to mock the Kurdish people on this stand...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0142par0294	Not the Kurdish people, but the PKK's...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0141par0295	...a minister with a vision of skill shows your cabinet's vilest, most outrageous stance!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0143par0297	Watch your language!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0144par0298	Mr. President, please warn me!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0145par0299	Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0143par0300	Mr. President!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0145par0301	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0146par0302	Look, I'm being very clear. He made a confession on this stand.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0145par0303	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0146par0304	Mr. President, you're not capable of...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0145par0305	Look, you'll use a clean language!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0146par0306	Please, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0145par0307	You'll use a clean language!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0146par0308	Mr. President has stated that he has been eavesdropping on the MPs from this bench. That's a crime. That's a big confession from the Watergate scandal. He must have confessed on the stand. A minister who made such a confession cannot remain in the ministry and in his seat for a second in normal democracies.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0147par0309	Get out of here, come on!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0146par0310	If such a minister is lying, if he commands a decree and sets fire to all sides, if he forbids it, if he goes into the town buildings with panzers and bombs, if he drags people and tortures people like this, if he strangles them with gas bombs, if that's how his children's eyes are bombarded with flares, if these flares explode in his eyes, and this minister says, these flares are harmless. If he says such a minister is an uncontrollable force... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is public danger, Turkey is in danger, dangerous for brotherhood, dangerous for trust, dangerous for our future.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0148par0313	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0146par0314	You're applauding this danger. You're in the wrong place. We're warning you. Such a minister is not protected in any democracy. We tell you not to bear this shame.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0148par0315	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan, please... Mr. Sakık, you're welcome.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0149par0318	Mr. President, I thank you. Now, here, we gave a balance sheet during the talks: 2 dead, 178 injured, a few MPs including our fellow MPs were injured, and 200,014 were taken into custody, 206 were arrested. We're asking for the account, but he's coming out here, in this country, different differences, different beliefs... not only Muslims live in this country. I just yelled out of there, and I said, "You're this, and I apologize to all the faiths." All beliefs are sacred. That's the way we look at it, but it's not your place to insult the Kurds' beliefs.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0150par0320	Kurds are Muslim. The Kurds are our brothers. They're all believers.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0149par0321	I'm asking you now.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0151par0322	It's not your place. Don't insult the religious faith of the Kurdish people.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0149par0323	I'm asking you, are you a Muslim?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0152par0324	Mr. Sakık, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0151par0325	You will apologize to the Kurdish people. It's not your place.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0149par0326	Now, I'm asking you, in the name of God, the one behind you... look, let me tell you something.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0153par0327	You can't speak for the Kurds.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0149par0328	Please... please... you're back, you're back, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're a scoundrel, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here. You will come out and explain.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0154par0329	That's right.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0149par0330	And you, Mr. Secretary, do you love this country?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0155par0331	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0149par0332	Do you? Do you like the flag? Do you love Recep Erdogan? I ask you, do you love me?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0156par0333	Not like you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0157par0334	Mr. Sakık, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0149par0335	Do you like all the beliefs?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0157par0336	Mr. Sakık, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0149par0337	Well, if you do, then get up and do a flip, get up and get rid of you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0158par0338	I flip under my flag, I flip in front of my people, but in front of you...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0149par0339	You're already a flipper minister. You're not worthy of this country.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0159par0341	That's right.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0160par0342	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0161par0343	Mr. Sakek, please...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0162par0344	You're a pain in the ass in this country.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0163par0346	That's right. That's what suits you. Why are you carrying such a Minister?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0164par0347	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0165par0348	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0166par0349	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0167par0350	Corruption stirs up the country. Why don't you... he's mixing up the coven.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0166par0352	Excuse me. Look, I just gave everyone my word.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0167par0354	Isn't it a shame you're carrying such a Minister? He's moving people.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0166par0355	I'm gonna take a break.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0167par0356	It's forbidden to move the moon. It is forbidden to play the moon in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0168par0357	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0166par0358	Mr. Elitaş, just a moment...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0167par0359	Shame! Does that look good on you, Minister? Aren't you ashamed? Don't you have national will?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0166par0361	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0169par0364	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. During the talks on our Minister of Interior, all political party groups expressed their views. The Peace and Democracy Party has made harsh, hurtful criticisms on behalf of its own group, even expressing insults.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0170par0366	We criticized it, we didn't insult it.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0171par0367	Don't confuse the criticism with the belief, the insult, Elitaş. It's hard to mock and insult a people's religion, their faith, and no one can carry it.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0169par0368	But when Mr. Secretary is uncomfortable with the documents he's explained here, as they are with me now, because they can't swallow the truth from the stand...
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0172par0369	What document did he explain, for God's sake?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0173par0370	What the hell!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0174par0371	What are you talking about directly?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0175par0372	Because they couldn't get over it, they tried to stop the speaker.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0174par0373	Who's the one who confuses his youth with beliefs and talks mischief here?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0175par0374	You punched the desks for at least ten minutes. You'll listen patiently, you'll listen with pleasure, if there's a mistake, if there's a different saying... in fact, Mr. President has tolerated despite the violation of the Civil Code, he has promised everyone here, but this bench does not give a minister, a congressman, a human being the right to insult. His statement is that it's not about the beliefs of the Kurdish people, it's all about the beliefs of the terrorist organization that this nation has cursed.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0176par0376	I don't care what he says!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0174par0377	What's he gonna say? Shame to have those Kurds among you!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0175par0378	You're not the representative of the Kurdish people here, you're not the representative of the Kurdish people, you're not the representative of our Kurdish citizens.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0176par0379	It's not the Minister, it's you, it's those who applaud the Minister.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0175par0380	It is the duty of this country to protect the rights and laws of 75 million people living in this country. I am the representative of the Kurdish people. No one gives you the right to speak here.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0177par0381	Yeah, yeah, he's giving it to you, isn't he?
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0175par0382	I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0178par0384	Here you go. [[Will they all speak to the order of the AK PARTY?]] No, no, no, it's a friend talking about the MPs. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0179par0389	Mr. President, thank you. Of course, what is said today from this bench reveals what a dire government Turkey is facing during the time we are in. The Minister is playing the role he's been given, and he's doing what he needs to do. (EC PARTS) A part of the concept that is being carried out today is the language and the policy that the Minister has established, and the way we see it today is a part of the concept, and we know that there is a government will behind it, but let's just say that you're in charge of this mission, and you have to pay attention to the language you're using when you're doing it. It is not possible for you to distance yourself by ignoring the different identities, religions, and beliefs that live in this country, especially today, when you are dreaming of 2023 dreams, in the Middle East, when you are undressing into sultanship, it is not practical for you to be part of this process. Another is: If you are going to talk about female paralegals from BDP, I advise you to think about them ten times and talk about them once. (Applause from BDP rows) When you talk about female paralegals from BDP, you'll know what practice these women are coming from and what they're facing today, and what prices they're sitting in these rows. Mr. Minister, we knew that this would be the picture when we gave this gene, but our promise is not to the MPs sitting at this time, but to the people of Turkey who voted for you: let the society of Turkey know that you have no will to solve any problems. Let the people of Turkey know that you have no position to lead such a process, not to share the pain -- not through the division of pain, but through the division of pain -- to deepen the problem that exists, and again, by doubling the amount of suffering that has happened. Again, once again, shame and sin, we can only agree with each other with a bit of empathy.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0180par0396	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0179par0397	We, however, recommend that the MPs who sit at this time know with what reality are in politics and that they are represented by lawmakers who call themselves language, culture, and history. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0180par0400	Thank you, Mr. Ancestor. Talks have been completed on whether the primary no. 11/11 motion on Interior Minister Idris Naim Şahin will be taken into consideration. Now, I'm going to submit to your votes on whether or not the motion of the gene will be raised: those who have agreed to the motion of the gene... those who have refused to accept it... are not accepted, the motion of the gene is not accepted. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, BDP APPLAUSE!]
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0181par0406	You can belly up!
tbmm-2012-04-17sit02spe0180par0407	According to the decision taken, it is Wednesday (April 18th 2012) at 14 p.m. to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of draft and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
