tbmm-2012-11-15sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before starting the talks, members of parliament, we must take a closed session to be read according to the 71st Article of the Interior Charter, which was held in the 17th, 18th, November 8, 2012, 19th, November 9, 2012, and 21st hearings held on November 11, 2012. Therefore, I'd like to ask the lawmakers to evacuate the hall, except for sworn stenographers and sworn officers, who may be present in the General Assembly Hall. After the transcripts have been read, open session will be held and talks will continue. I'd like to ask the chief executives to assist in this, inform the president after the hall is cleared.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey after the closed session. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can answer these talks, the government's response time is 20 minutes. The first word that is off the agenda belongs to Mr. Abraham, who asked for words because of the month of battle. Here you go, Mr. Hero.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0002par0010	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book pledge to honor one of our sacred months, one of our sacred months. I salute you all. In addition to being one of our sacred months of combat, the honorable MPs are also important for the anniversary of the inhumane events in Kerbela, which have become a black mark on history. The month of battle is considered a month of mourning and mourning in our Muslim communities because of the killing of 73 women, mostly Imam Hussein and most of them women. This grief is a platform that unites us socially, brings citizens from different sects side by side, and sheds common tears on a single axis of emotion by our people. The household finds its essence from human love and accepts all thoughts as a human right; it does not despise anyone because of their faith. It is the knowledge, the knowledge, the friendship, the mercy, the equality, and the creation of the righteous. The greatest book to read is man. Our way is based on the love of knowledge, wisdom, and humanity. The events of Kerbala have shown us the blind eye of power and power against all these values. This ambition has caused dozens of innocent people to lose their lives. Thousands of people have lost their lives in the wars against the people of history. Therefore, the month of combat is important for us to remember these historical truths and to hold on to our social union more tightly so that such events may never happen again. Dear lawmakers, Imam Hussein has also opposed man's worship and defended those thoughts at the cost of his life. If we still remember and remember him here today, it is because of his honorable and courageous struggle in Kerbala for his righteous cause. As I mentioned before, faith is a very sensitive subject for societies. No one in the community would want to interfere with his faith. At this point today, all groups of beliefs and sects in our country are taking serious steps to live more freely in their own beliefs and philosophy. The Alevi society, which has been subjected to pressure and ignored over the years, has been able to express itself in recent years and to discuss many problems and demands with the state. Some of the problems that were previously unresolved have been solved, while others have been tried to solve over time; the important thing is the sincere and sincere approach to the solution. Acting with common sense will make the solution to problems even easier. Otherwise, it is clear that unwanted conflicts and tensions will benefit no one. As Hazreti Ali said, there are truths from the conflict of opinion. (For our beloved People's Poet, Veysel, in a plant of ours, what is it that you became the Flame after being not human that you became Sunni?) What is important about meeting in the human focus of the important one, religion, religion, and ethnic origins that they can live together in peace. The honorable MPs, the mourning fast held in the month of battle, were left without water for days and killed in Kerbala along with Imam Hussein. History will never erase this human drama from its pages, nor will it forgive the oppressors. As for Imam Hussein and his ethos, they will continue to guard their place in history as a symbol of honorable resistance to those who persecute man. Imam Hussein's refusal to oppose the persecution of the oppressor is the greatest evil to be done. I consider living with the oppressors to be a disgrace to me, and I will find death against the oppressor. He spoke best of the very essence of that day's resistance and set an example for us. On this occasion, as I put an end to my words, I once again share the sufferings of the Islamic world, the unbreakment of the peace and peace of our country, and my regards to all of you, people living in peace and brotherhood. May your heart not lack tolerance and human love.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0003par0023	Thank you, Mr. Hero. We're celebrating the month of the war of the Islamic world. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Smyrna MP Hülya Güven, who wants to talk about Zonguldak MP Mehmet Haberal, World Academy of Medicine, Medical Research Technical and Ethic Sciences. Here you go, Mr. Trust.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0004par0028	Mr. President, members of the Republican People's Party Zonguldak MP and Mr. Professor Mehmet Haberal, who left behind the 42nd month of his imprisonment in Silivri Prison, the 1st day of his imprisonment. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today I'm going to give you a brief report on the World Medical Academy. As with many matters, international relations are also known in the fields of medicine and health sciences. As far as we're concerned today, this has undoubtedly had a major impact on our relationships, and it will continue to happen. Of course, this is important not only in terms of our country, but also in terms of our region. In this context, we have established the World Academy of Medicine, Medical Research Technologies and Ethics, a project that I've been conducting for a long time in limited capacity, in the field of medical and health sciences, in accordance with the demands of my international well-known and respected scientists. This Science Academy, which I serve as the chairman of the Governing Body, has 66 members of the world's 27-nation community of respected scientists and academics. Among the members of this academy in Ankara, which became an international organisation in Switzerland after being registered in Turkey, is an important development, especially in North America and South America; the presence of many respected scientists from Europe, the Middle East, the Far East, Eurasia and Africa, which will help our country build a traditional bridge between east and west, and will also support its promotion as an international science centre. In particular, the United States, Germany, Argentina, Australia, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Ecuador, France, Britain, Iran, Spain, Switzerland, Japan, Canada, Kuwait, Lebanon, Egypt, Pakistan, Singapore, Syria, Saudi Arabia, Chile, Umman and Jordan, among the main objectives of the academy, among which there are valuable scientists from the United States, Germany, Argentina, Australia, Australia, Brazil, Ecuador, France, the Netherlands, the Netherlands, the Netherlands, the Netherlands, the Netherlands, Iran, Iran, Spain, Switzerland, Japan, Canada, Canada, Canada, Canada, Canada, Canada, Canada, Canada, the United Kingdom, the United States, the United States, and the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, and Jordan. Mr. President, this academy will contribute significantly to the implementation of ethics and quality rules in the world's medical training and medical and research, as well as in member countries, and will be effective in our country's promotion. Therefore, in the work of this international scientific academy, I respectfully submit to you that I look forward to your suggestions and your valuable support. Prof. Dr. Mehmet Haberal CHP MP Zonguldak of the 24th term. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers are the first Turkish and Muslim scientist to be rewarded by the World Organ Transport Association, as well as many of the many awards that you don't appreciate, Mr. Haberal. He is also the first Turkish surgeon to be awarded in the ninety-seven years of American College of Surgeons. Today, 1308 days and at the same time, he is a prisoner who is unable to receive adequate treatment for his illness. Mr. Haberal, a scientist and MP with no other purpose than to serve his country, would like to know why he was subjected to this injustice, persecution, and injustice. With all due respect to the discretion of our members of lawmakers, who will be our great nation in the first place.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0005par0042	Thank you, Mr. Trust. Now, the third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Ömer Faruk Öz (Second) MP of Malatya, who wants to mark the anniversary of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0006par0047	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-topsy promise as president of the friendship group due to the 29th anniversary of the establishment of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. I hereby salute your high council. On 15 November 1983, the Turkish Cypriot Federation Assembly unanimously adopted the declaration of the establishment and independence of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus during its extraordinary session. The decision on the establishment of the Northern Turkish Republic of Cyprus, approved by the Federe Parliament, was made with an understanding that all people who represent the free will of the Turkish Cypriot people, who are born free and equal, should live one and equal. In this belief, all efforts will be made to make peace permanent in Cyprus, which has declared the Turkish Cypriot people's decision to the world, on the basis of differences such as race, national origins, language, and religion, which rejects all kinds of colonialism, racism, oppression and oppression. We just need to look at what's going on around us to understand how valuable it is to live together in peace and peace. We are representatives of an understanding in the Eastern Mediterranean, Middle East, and in the world that wants complete peace and stability, freedom, and human rights to prevail. The territory of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is a land carved with the blood of our martyrs and veterans. Therefore, in such a holy land, we have never let anyone darken the future of our Turkish brothers and sisters, nor will we. We have always valued the Cyprus issue, the righteous struggle of our brothers and sisters in Cyprus, and we have taken priority. At the time of the EC PARTI governments, Turkey did not take a stand on Cyprus, avoiding a compromise in the international arena, but our compromise was certainly not a surrendering conclusion. We didn't just make haemasis words about Cyprus, we did business, we invested. Today, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus has found double roads with the resources of the motherland. As of now, more than 1,600 kilometers of double roads, intersections and overpasses have been completed. Many tourism facilities have been opened again with the incentives sent by Turkey. In the case of drinking water, one of the major problems of Northern Cyprus, work has been launched by our government, from Anamur, from under the sea, through the pipe, and in the same way, the work of the pond continues quickly. At the beginning of 2014, hopefully, Northern Cyprus will have drinking water, and it will even be able to be used as increasing water irrigation water. And again, our work on the same method, electricity transmission -- at the end -- continues. As the AK PARTI government, I would like to reiterate to Northern Cyprus that we have claimed as the green island of our Turkish people, the island of heaven, and the land of our poor people, that we have always been there for our Cypriot people and Cypriot people. As one of the major tourist destinations in Cyprus, the Girne Castle, Gazimagusa Walls, many historical structures, the Seimiye Mosque, Lala Mustafa Pasha Mosque, Sinan Pasha Mosque, the Arab Ahmed Pasha Mosque, the Mevlevi Teke Museum, the Canbult Turbesi museum and the Great Khan meet those who have gone there as trophies of our advent. The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus was founded as an independent state, celebrating the day of independence of our Cypriot bloodlines in front of the world and history twenty-nine years ago, saying that we, as the Republic of Turkey, rule and all Turkish people, will always be with this state and the heroic Turkish Cypriot people, will always be with them until the end of their righteous trial, and I hereby congratulate you on the 29th anniversary of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0007par0057	Cyprus became the center of gambling and prostitution, and it became the center of all the banks for fraud, which should be noted.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0008par0058	Thank you, Mr. Oz. We, as president, are celebrating the 29th anniversary of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus on behalf of all of you, and I am pleased to express it. Dear friends, now, I'm going to make a promise to our friends who have entered the system. In first place, Mr. Korkmaz, please.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0009par0064	Thank you, Mr. President. And at the beginning of my words, I congratulate the holy month of war of Islam, and call upon the Lord God to bless it. So this month, I pray and pray that all my brothers and sisters who worship will also be accepted. Twenty-nine years ago, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus was established in Cyprus. The Turks have declared that they want to live in a free state. Once again, we congratulate ourselves on these decisions. Not less, but a state that's been on its feet for thirty years. We want the whole world to see this government now. I have a call to make to the Prime Minister as the last thing I'd like to talk about. You made a call to bring back the death penalty, and as the only party that opposes the removal of the death penalty, the National Movement Party says: "If this is not a new abuse, bring your proposal to Parliament, we are ready here as the National Movement Party." Otherwise, Mr. Prime Minister, what I'm trying to tell you is that either you stand by your promise or you don't say things you can't stand by. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0010par0069	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0011par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. I celebrate the month of the battle of all our brothers. I also wish for the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus to live free and independent for many years. There's a problem I'd like to point out: Artvin's county is connected to Batum, and the airport is being used as a partner as a result of the deal with the government of Georgia. There are two such places in the world, one in Switzerland and one in Batum, but Batum Airport's flights to Ankara were unfortunately cancelled. Although there were trips to Istanbul every day during the week, Ankara campaigns were two times a week, it is unfortunate that the Ankara flights were cancelled in accordance with the decision. Therefore, we have a heavy victimization of our fellow countrymen, especially our fellow citizens, who live in Artvin. In this regard, all our applications to the Turkish Airlines administration, to the General Manager, have failed. I draw the attention of the Turkish Airways Administration's presidency and the General Directorate's decision to review it once again and bring the Ankara-Batum expeditions into operation and to the Turkish Airways administration for the immediate launch of these expeditions. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0012par0077	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Count it out, Efendir.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0013par0080	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are deeply concerned that the Phorm company, which has several bans on its activities in the European Union, launches a service with TTNET in our country. The Alternative Information Association has filed a criminal complaint by TTNET, stating that people's data on the Internet have been seized without the consent and knowledge of users and that they have been wrongfully used for commercial purposes. CHP Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk has proposed a question and CHP MP Erdal Aksunger has reiterated these concerns with a press conference. Technologies that violate the privacy of our personal data and communication, disrupt the distributed, democratic, neutral structure of the Internet, are central, unmanageable and transparent, threaten the future of the Internet. We reiterate our demand for immediate implementation of regulations to strengthen user rights and freedoms so that digital investment climate and the renewable economy can be developed in Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0014par0084	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Güyük...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0015par0087	Mr. President, today is the 15th November World Palestinian Day. We condemn the Israeli regime, which has slaughtered thousands of Palestinian Muslims since 1948. Today, more than 5 million Palestinians in the world, as refugees, live their lives under difficult circumstances. The figure corresponds to 70 per cent of the total Palestinian population. The policy of the Israeli regime, which has transformed the Palestinians' habitats into open prisons with cruel and inhumane practices, is based on the destruction of Palestinians. Since the declaration of the establishment of the independent Palestinian state on November 15, 1988, persecutions have continued again against Palestinian Muslims. In the course of today's process, a study has begun for Palestinians, who received stronger support from Turkey, to be recognized in the United Nations as an observer state status, but even on this eve, Israel has been dropping bombs on the air, land and sea and slaughtering dozens of our people again. We strongly condemn the Zionist regime, our martyrs...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0016par0092	Thank you, Mr. Güyük. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0017par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I wish that the month of war we're in would be a month of plenty, of treat, of people sharing equally, of undiscrimination, of peace and peace to our country. The pain of this month, believe me, reveals the perspective of a former police chief who was said to be a letter that appeared in everyone's memory. This head has the impression that it continues with recent door markings. He demands that the prosecutors act and the High Council be more sensitive, and I offer my regards to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0018par0099	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0019par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. In Amasya, two simental cows were given from 18,500 TL, to develop breeding cattle and support our villagers through the Orca, the Ministry of Forest Waters. Turns out these cows were idiots, not stud cows. Agriculture, Forestry County Administrations, reported that these cows should be cut off within a hundred and twenty days. As these cows entered customs, it was reported that they entered as normal breeders, but in Turkey they were breeding cows. Will our ministry support and support the victims of these peasants? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0020par0106	Thank you, Mr. Clumsy. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0021par0109	Mr. President, there are studies of building a solid waste disposal plant in the area where the drinking water is provided in the district of Yolale, Giresun. Although the CED report is negative, the court of military administration has issued a decision to halt work, infrastructure studies continue with a disregard of the law. The people of the Sergeants, who wanted to express their democratic demands in an innocent manner, were confronted by security forces. In this regard, the public's righteous demands should be respected in a democratic country. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0020par0111	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Mr. Corporate... Thank you, Mr. President. I wish those who believe in Muharrem's fast to bring health and peace to our people. Today, on the 65th day of the hunger strike, the prisons have turned into Kerbela. Yesterday at Kandira Prison, I spoke to Suphi Yalçınkaya and Emrah Kaplan, on their 64th day; they were weak, two-fold, cold bodies, difficult speech, and no longer wanting to drink, and not unless they intend to give up their hunger strike. It's important to understand what they want and not be misled by the public. First of all, they're in bad health. Let there be negotiations to prevent deaths, or they will not go on hunger strike, so that those who are attacked may be free. The Prime Minister should discuss the solution, not the intervention. Having deaths will dynamite social peace and our common future. So let us all work so that people may live and have peace. Let us not watch the hunger strike. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0022par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating the 29th anniversary of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and I wish for a period of time. I congratulate our nation's month of war, the Turkish Islamic world, and I wish it to be a blessing for all mankind. Recently, Israel has taken advantage of Syria's turmoil and has accelerated its military movements in the hills of Golan. Yesterday, Israel slaughtered dozens of people in Gaza by implementing state terror. In America, Israel has become very angry with Obama (Obama) for winning the election. Turkey must reconsider its external relations according to the existing conjunctural. I hope the AKP government understands that it has weakened Syria and strengthened Israel. The government must observe both Syria and Israel more closely at this time. At any moment, Israel will be subjected to new commands in the region. Meanwhile, terrorist activities can be concentrated in order to block Turkey in Anatolia. Water sleeps, terror doesn't sleep. Let's be careful. I pay my respects, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0023par0127	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0024par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating the anniversary of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. I'm also celebrating the month of the war. Mr. President, there are difficulties in education, especially in Mugla. In the village of Fesliken in Milas, about 30 students failed to go to school because they had not been able to contract a transport system for two months. I'd like to stress that in particular because families, parents and students are victims. Also, the students go late to their villages -- they can't go to their homes -- because they're forced to stay in school in the afternoon, because they're forced to do so, because they're forced to do so. Thus, they fall into darkness, and families and students are victims. I don't think we should...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0025par0135	Thank you, Mr. Iron. I apologize to our other friends who have entered the system, and we promise ten of our friends. Now, I'm going on the agenda.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0026par0138	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0027par0139	Mr. President, I have a request, sir, according to Article 60.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0025par0140	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0027par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, we enter the month of battle. Muharrem, I share the grief of all our citizens who have fasted on the occasion of the month, and I ask that they be accepted in accordance with the truth of their fast and their worship. I also express our desire that Kerbela-like events should never happen again in human history. Today is also the 29th anniversary of the establishment of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. I welcome the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, his Turkish people, who are struggling for freedom and independence, and tell them that we support their struggle to become a full member of the European Union. I offer you love and respect.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0028par0146	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0029par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. And as the National Party of Action, we wish that the month of the war of the entire Islamic Lemin and the year of the Hijri would be the cause of peace, brotherhood, unity, resurrection. Today I am also celebrating the founding anniversary of the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus. Cyprus will have the KKTC flag, the state and the Turkish flag and its land forever. The founder of the KKTC, the founding President, Mr. Rauf Denktas, and the martyrs who gave their lives to protect Turkish presence in Cyprus, the late Ecevit (Ecevit) and the late Erbakan (Erbakan) who made their decision to act in Cyprus, we thank all our martyrs and veterans.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0030par0153	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0031par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. As an AK PARTY group, we celebrate the war month of the entire Islamic world and also the hijri Christmas, the year. I wish the whole world of Islam to bring peace and peace and brotherhood to the world. And we long for it with Allah, and we pray for it from Allah. Again, in the same way, we celebrate the founding anniversary of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. On every platform, at every international arena, I express that we are followers of the Cyprus case. I say God bless those who are martyrs in the Cyprus trial and God bless our veterans. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0032par0161	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0033par0162	Mr. President, today is a battle, the muhbi cries from the dynasty. / There's only one AKP in this land that celebrates the war on its property.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0032par0164	He's on the books, sir. Do you have any demands?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0034par0166	No.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0032par0167	Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There's a resignation notice from the commission, and I'm going to read it: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey I'm resigning from the TBMM Industries, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission that I'm a member of. I'll give you what you need. There's another resignation statement, I'm having it read: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey I'm resigning from the TBMM Environmental Commission, which I'm a member of, to take part in another residency commission. I'll give you what you need. Congressmans, you have been briefed. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the interest of reviewing and determining the negative situation caused by privatisation of water resources and water services, our Constitution is 98, and the Constitution is 104 and 105. By establishing the Commission for Research, we demand and demand the investigation of the problem. [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Unfortunately, one has to meet the concept of global warming in order to recognize the importance of water within the circle of life. Water is the only source of sustaining life, leading to the most important components for living life. For this reason, water is not a commodity of market value, but the common presence of humanity and nature, and the most fundamental right of all living things. The amount of fresh water in the world is only 3% of the total volume of water. Most of the fresh water supply is found in difficult places, such as glaciers, atmospheres, subterranean waters. This unfair distribution continues in the water cycle, which operates as a closed system, which welds the world into fresh water. The changing amount of rain and climate conditions make some countries rich with water, while some countries are subject to desert conditions. According to UNESCO's World Water Development Report, the indicators, such as fresh water resources, cleaning, processing of wastewater, are 45 in 148 countries. Turkey, ranked next, has a tendency to be water poor. Turkey is a country with a low water supply of 1,500 cubic metres of water per person. It is calculated that we will become a water-poor country in the next decade because of the growth of populations, even if we maintain the resources of fresh water as we should and manage them with a public approach. Our available water presence, which is 112 billion cubic metres annually, signals danger due to human contamination, excessive consumption, non-decontamination industry, the destruction of water basins, the unconscious use of agricultural fertilizer and medicine, and most importantly because of efforts to privatize it. The perception of current power's water as a commodity that can be bought and sold on the market triggers this danger and invites us to the dark picture that awaits us in the future. Our waters, however, are the most basic and vital right for all humans and creatures in our geography. As a result of the neoliberal policies implemented by the AKP government, our public property, our useable and drinking water, has been accelerated to attract domestic foreign capital. At the same time, the DSI, the central implementor of current government policies, has been sacrificing our rivers to HES projects for 49 years called "water rights," while its local practitioner is being commercialized by handing over water service, privatisation and subcontractorship, which should be handled as a public service by some municipalities and County Special Administrations. Local governments, which act on private business logic, reduce the quality of grid water and promote prepaid water counters, obstructing public access to water. In many major cities, such as Istanbul and Ankara, people are forced to buy bottled water because they can't drink water from the taps, and are condemned to fill the safes of water companies. In the Uludağ National Park, where domestic and foreign capital is arm in arm and arm, the number of water-filled companies is already more than 20. In most logical municipalities, privatisations have been completed in parts such as meter reading and station maintenance. This is the first act of the scenario, and the second act is to prepare the infrastructure for the total release of grid water to private companies. The international size of privatisations is created by organisations such as the IMF, the World Bank and the International Financial Union. These organizations, along with the maturity of the conditions, expect to lick and drive international giant water companies behind them with social benefits, such as efficiency, improving the quality of water and water services. In our cities, water services delivered to privatisation and commercialization have been seen with examples of what plagues both the city's people, the local governments, and the treasure. Therefore, it would be wise to investigate and identify the problems caused by privatisation policies on water services and water resources. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our city is an important thermal city, especially in Osmangazi district. Bursa Grasshopper Springs, a very ancient history, afforded health tourism for our province. Our geothermal waters, which have served humanity for centuries, have led to serious tourist facilities and brought economic mobility. In terms of economic progress and growth, people have been inclined to take advantage of our thermal waters. Progress in medicine has made the importance of thermal treatment evident. Turkey's pupil of geothermal potential, which even Europe does not have, is in need of improvement in the Bursa Cricket Springs. The government needs to take over this region, the spas, take care of it, support it, encourage it. It is essential that mankind take advantage of this wonder of nature, the thermal opportunity. This depends only on protecting geothermal resources. These resources must be protected and used rationally. Thermal facilities need to be opened up, health tourism, and our revenues need to be increased. But recently, our geothermal resources in the Cricket District have been raised by controversial drilling. Thermal water sources have raised serious problems among public institutions, disputes between public institutions and private individuals, loss of water due to false drillings. The scientific detection of thermal resources, historically and touristically important economic potential, has become inevitable. Ownership debates, scientific research of the reserve, ambiguity removal, a study and examination of the conditions of dehydration caused by public drilling from time to time. It is true that thermal sources respond negatively to interference in non-scientific methods. These waters are a national fortune. It's the wonder of nature that's been served by people. It is the duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to claim this wealth within constitutional law. The problem is national, legal, medical, scientific, economic. Therefore, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104-105 of the Institution to determine the solutions, to discuss the problem with those who are relevant. [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Scholarship]] [[Adana]] [[Scholarship]] 7) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] 9) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 11) Aydın Agha Ayadın [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 13) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Ankara]] 15) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Amasya]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] [[Aydın]] 22) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Constitution is 98th, 104th and 105th, to determine measures to be taken, including the legal arrangements to investigate agricultural irrigation issues in our country. On the basis of the clauses, I'd like to request that Parliamentary Investigation be opened. 20.12.2011 [[Manisa]] [[Kastamon]] [[İzmir]] [[Erzurum]] [[Inconceived]] [[Mersin]] [[Slap]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Adana]] 10) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Mersin]] 14) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] [[Adana]] [[Inconceived]] 19) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] Watering for high efficiency and quality products is the most important factor, and with accurate and adequate irrigation, efficiency can be increased by 2.5fold. In particular, agricultural irrigation has become extremely important because of the increasing drought in recent years. Instead of increasing agricultural land in the present century and around the world, the idea of buying more and more products in the unit area has become increasingly settled. In order to produce more products in the unit area, the development and rational use of water resources are of great importance. Due to the use of our water resources outside the limits and the impact of climate changes, our water supply is dwindling, our agricultural water requirements are increasing. The farmland in Turkey is 21.4 million hectares, leaving 5 million hectares of water scarce every year. Eight and a half million hectares of planted and obelisks can be diluted, but are opened to water 5.4 million hectares. In other words, watery agriculture is produced in 25 per cent of Turkey's total crop and obelisks. 4 million hectares of the water-watered land in our country are watered by water irrigation, which is 25-35 per cent water efficiency, and 424,000 hectares are watered by a drip that is 90-98 per cent. Using the dripping watering method will save money in irrigation. Since the DSI General Directorate's investment budget has not increased rates for the Ministry budget and GDP for years, irrigation investments cannot be completed. Watering investments in the GAP, which includes 52 per cent of the total watering sites, are moving very slowly due to lack of funding. The situation is the same with our country's second-largest irrigation project, the Conium Plain Watering Project. Water Law is required to ensure rational and effective use of water. The average irrigation rate in DSI irrigation for many years is 65 percent. Technically, the irrigation rate, which should be 50 to 60 percent, is 45 percent. This means that about half of the watering sites are watered, but they can't benefit from the water. When we look at the change of the total irrigation rate across Turkey, it seems that in the last 10 years irrigation rates have not been developed and the irrigation rate has grown very limited. One of the main reasons for watering investments is that the irrigation fields and the land are fragmented in areas that open to watering. The amount of land that can be collected in our country is 14 million hectares, and the amount of land that has been collected since 1960 is 1.5 million hectares. In watering areas, the bottom water level has increased due to unconscious irrigation, so barrenity is the biggest problem. The growing demand for food, combined with threats such as global warming, depends on sustainable governance of land and water resources by increasing efficiency in agricultural activities to ensure food security for the country's population. In order to ensure sustainability under these resources, efficient irrigation investments must be increased, efficient irrigation systems are established in areas open to watering and new openings, the best possible storage of surface and underground waters, the prevention of waste of land and water resources and increased awareness of producers and public awareness of these issues, the absence of the use of agricultural land, the prevention of erosion and barrenness. The selection of the modern irrigation system and management in accordance with the properties of the land and water resources we have and the selection of the plant pattern will help to be used in accordance with the projecting and technique; it will ensure that our natural resources will be transferred to the next generation in the best possible way, and a sustainable agricultural production will be made. Thank you. Members of parliament, the motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and vote for you. 14.11.2012 Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation Assembly (KEIPA) 40, which will be held on 26 November 2012, in response to the invitation of the Grand National Assembly of Azerbaijan President Oktay Asadov to the event. On the subject of an official visit to Azerbaijan to attend the General Assembly meeting, the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. In accordance with the clause, it is submitted to the approval of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0035par0364	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit03spe0032par0365	You want roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Illum, Mr. Öz, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Öz, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Serticer, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Akova, Mr. Star. Congressmans, I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0032par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of Turkey's 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly. The roll call was not enough for the meeting before the Turkish Grand National Assembly's draft vote. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the presidential statement to your votes that those who accept... those who do not... the presidential thesis has been approved. The Party of Peace and Democracy has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Thursday 15,11,2012 (today), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On November 2, 2012, the Parliamentary Research Council, which was given to the Grand National Assembly to investigate "training and identity policies in the Motherland," was proposed to be read in Thursday's unification of 15,11,2012, with other motions waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on the motion. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, sir. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0036par0028	Dear lawmakers, since the second half of the 20th century, the agenda of primary language education and identity policies in the world has come to a much different point in the 21st century with the development of human rights after World War II, and we know that there have been some changes in Turkey in parallel with this. We believe that such a study is useful, especially in Turkey, in terms of the conflict process of 30 years, in order to clarify the law of living together after the republic's founding philosophy, equality, freedom, and justice in our country, by doing serious research into the Parliament's main language in terms of education, identity problems. I'd like to point out that today is the sixty-fiveth day of the hunger strike. One of the requirements is education in the native language and the right to defend in the native language. In our recent history of fighting for this right, we know that the military administration of the coup of September 12th, military courts, martial law, military prisons were banned in the conditions of that day -- under the Constitution and laws of that day -- and under those conditions, in the prisons of courageous people, even in those tyrannical times -- in the martial law courts, in Kurdish defences -- Mr. Marashlı, Mr. Zana., Mr. Aydın, in our recent history. Of course, the bans have been lifted, the ban has been lifted in 87, the 91 Law has taken a step in the matter, but especially in the 2000s, the removal of the main language ban from the Constitution is an important step. Pre-EC PARTI, this clause, where language bans were lifted during coalitions, comes to our present with a little bit of a meaningful development along with the spirit of the European Union process. Here's what we want to say: it's not easy. In the struggles, thousands of college students were expelled from school, the rectories, under the Anti-Terror Law for petitioning for the right to education in the native language in 2001, and they paid the price, and eventually all of these were justified, and these investigations were changed especially by the European Union's harmonies package... And after that: 15 minutes of education in the main language by changing the RTÜK Law, and then -- including other languages -- from different languages of Kurdish dialects to Çernace, from behind it to Bosniak, from one of the most serious issues in our country, in universities today -- notcurdology, but in Kurdish education -- steps made under the name of the languages that speak -- again, on our agenda today, such as the coming of Kurdish courses in the education system, as the one of one of our country's most serious problems, the subject of education in the most serious language, the subject of identity issues, the multi-lingual culture, is found in a very important process. We were at the Human Rights Commission this morning, where the talks began on the 65th day about the right to defend the hunger strike in the native language, one of these righteous demands. In the government bill presented to the Human Rights Commission, the right to defend is only in the court phase after the indictment, which is in the final investigation and limited, and we say that the draft brought with the translation fee paid is discrimination, that it is disparaging, that the Assembly should be sensitive to equality, because the moment a person is caught, he should be able to defend himself in his native language at the moment of police arrest. It may be Kurdish, it may be Arabic, it may be German, it may be German, it may be African, it may be African, but it is the 90th article of the Constitution, international contracts, two contracts of the United Nations that we have signed and approved, the Convention on Civil and Political Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights, in all of this, is indispensable to a fair trial. If you say to someone, "Go to your own citizen, hire an expert, hire an interpreter, pay your fee, defend yourself." It's the most humiliating, humiliating, most degrading approach, and it's not acceptable. When a third generation of Turks who can't speak Turkish comes from Germany and is caught in a crime here, when he can't speak Turkish, when he needs a German interpreter, pay him your money, hold his German translator, and make your own defense, will you? If you can't say so, do you think it's fair, right, conscience, equality, to tell millions of Kurdish citizens of this country? This is all wrong. Here's what we're saying: if you're doing something, do it right. How do you do it? In each phase of the investigation, in the police, in evidence, in the witness, in the indictment, and in the court, the right to defend is sacred, the right to defend is not divisible. It is these special authorities who have been closed for three years. These special authorities are political decisions, prejudice, racism, monotheism, exclusion, there is no justice here. In any extraordinary court, there is no justice. Look, come to this day from the coup trials before September 12th, from the DGM, you won't find justice in any of them. Then extraordinary judgments must be removed altogether. We need to go through a normal trial process. Now, here's another point... Well, if Congress can't solve problems in this country, what if the political institution can't, and if we can't talk and problems can't get into gangrene, turn into tension, turn into action, turn into democratic response, a government that keeps gassing the ozone layer against democratic responses? We're asking, so what's really going to happen? Look, centuries ago, they asked Confucius before the century, and they said, "If you try to run a country, what is the first thing you're going to do?," said Confucius, "I will certainly start by reviewing the language." Because it's an expression of itself, it's an expression of thought, it's a means of managing society. You... language is thought, literature, art, poetry, poetry, story, court. That's all it is, it's cinema, it's art. You... no one can ignore the wealth of our country by saying one language, and try to kill them. The language of a nation is his soul. Language is the mirror of culture. If the language hadn't been developed, human beings couldn't live as human beings, language limits are the worlds. Those who are so open, who admire their own language, who are victims of their own language, have to admire the language of others and become victims. That's what it takes to be human. No one creates a language by itself artificially, from the light of history, from thousands of years, from culture, language is created that way, language is not by order, it's not by order of plastic, it's by culture. It comes from the ten thousand years of filtering, from Mem u Zin digi, Ahmadi Hani, you Fakiye Teyran to those times... ages ago, their diaries, their madrases, their college educations, don't you see in what period? We see it. If we see it, then this country is a very rich country. We'll take care of our culture, our colors, our voices. This motion for research gives us this opportunity, we say we don't lose it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0037par0038	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. In opposition to the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu, Kayseri MP. Mr. Halaçoglu, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0038par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, economic and political power also causes the language spoken by that state to become international. Language is the most important element in people's dealings with one another. There must be some features for the language to be defined as linguine. Such things as verbs, adjectives, pronouns, and supplements reveal the wealth of that language. The more words in a language about the definition of an object, a color, a concept, the richer the language is. According to this definition, we can divide the language into three main parts: The first is the language of science. If your mother tongue is not able to study and write the results of scientific research and submit them to the international public, another language will be considered your language of science. Such languages become the common language of the international community. Today, English is in this position. Second, it's official language. The official language is a key figure in providing unity and unity in countries with different ethnic groups and languages in one country. In any government institution, there is an official correspondence and speech. Otherwise, harmony and solidarity between citizens of that country is not possible within the country. The uncertainty of this issue leads to dissolution. For example, although there are dozens of different nations and languages in the Ottoman State, all correspondence has been made in Turkish because of the official will to establish the official language.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0039par0047	But Hajji has given other languages the right to life, Ottomans.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0038par0048	Third, it's the mother tongue. The matter of the mother tongue has often caused controversy. The Ottoman language in the Ottoman Empire is Turkish-based, as a grammar structure, everything. There are words from Arabic, Persian, but not from Turkish. It's not like Arabic grammar or Persian grammar. For example, the word "the library" is a Turkish word composed of Arabic and Persian. Think of it that way. The use of Arabic letters does not make Ottoman language Arabic. Because it's Turkish, even though it's written in Arabic. Again, we're writing in Latin. You can't claim that the language we wrote in Latin is not Turkish, you can't say Latin.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0040par0051	No, there was no obstacle to education in other languages.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0038par0052	The matter of the mother tongue has often caused controversy. Is the mother tongue the language that is taught from the mother, or is it the cultural language of a society? Often, the native language is defined in relation to the geography of society. It is, of course, that everyone learns their native language. For example, when French is the only language known to an Algerian family living in France and all members of the family speak French, how will the native language be defined? To what extent can this family living in France fulfill education in the native language? Honourable lawmakers also have a quality that cannot be applied to the Party for Peace and Democracy's proposal on education in the main language today. First of all, what dialects or dialects will Kurdish, educational language, not understanding each other?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0041par0054	It will be done in Kazakh and Kyrgyz!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0038par0055	What can be done, considering that the one in Diyarbakır does not understand Van, nor does he understand Tunisia? Is there a language of education in a country that doesn't understand each other five percent, even in its own language?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0042par0057	Iraq also has Kurdistan in northern Iraq.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0038par0058	We don't care about Iraq Kurdistan, we're talking about Turkey. What dialect is spoken in Iraq Kurdistan? Can you understand the dialect spoken in Iraq Kurdistan, or can a person in Van?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0043par0059	You do your talking. Teacher, don't talk to me!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0038par0060	Secondly, is it possible to accept an application that will cause the dissolution of society for ideological and political reasons when there is an opportunity for an agreement within the official language across Turkey? Anyone can study Kurdish and there is no problem with the law. However, we all know that the courses opened are closed. In reality, education in the native language is required by terrorist organisations and groups connected to them. The purpose of this request is clearly known and seen on everyone's side. As a matter of fact, the right to defend the main language, the right to education, constitutional citizenship, the common country, democratic autonomy, the status of Kurds, the Kurdish name, Kurdish use of Kurdish in local administrations are a manifestation of divisive understanding. It is part of the plans for the removal of part of the country's territory and for the creation of a large Kurdistan (Kurdistan) of international will. So the demand for education in the native language is a matter of demand for sovereignty. Thus, it is not possible for this request to be viewed as an innocent request. Because apart from the breach of the Constitution, there's a case of oppression and massacre, which brutally disregards and abuses human life for separatist purposes.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0044par0063	Was Said Nursi a terrorist, asking for a native language education?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0038par0064	Whether it's a live bomb or a hunger strike, it's in the frame. Human life is being made the instrument of divisive demands. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, we therefore oppose the motion, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0045par0067	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Now, to your advantage, Mr. Sırrı Sakık Müsh MP. Here you are, sir, ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0046par0070	Mr. President, dear friends, I'm here on behalf of my group regarding this motion, and I salute you all. In fact, before we get into this, we're all known as groups to be sensitive to these hunger strikes. Today is his 65th day, and every day, we live together in moments that are approaching death every hour. A group of our fellow lawmakers also put their bodies to death in order for the demands of this hunger strike to come to life in Diyarbakir. The problem here is that if he really had the right to study the native language, there wouldn't be a fight in the mountains today, there wouldn't be a hunger strike in the dungeons, nor would the children of this country die every day. I mean, we just heard the preacher here. The Kurds have no reaction to the official language, but they have a serious reaction to the destruction of themselves, and don't you see that every morning, from the founding of the republic -- because of the talks you've just made -- your ancestors have been in the same cruel policies that for years, the Kurds have been fighting against it, and if there is no solution, the mountain is the cure, the prison is the cure, they put their bodies to death, and you don't see that every morning, in schools, rejection and denial policies are living every day? Mr. Prime Minister comes out from time to time and says: "The policy of rejection and denial is over. " Our children, each morning, are present to the Turkish presence of my workman, which begins with the Turkish person in the schoolyards. " Isn't he an assimilationist, with racist oaths, that children don't go to school? What right do you have? Who has the right to train our children like this? What constitution, what law has the right? No constitution, no law, no tongue, no identity, can assimilate me. That's the real reason for today's struggle. Now, on international platforms, when the Prime Minister and the ministers go, they all say, "Oh, my, don't be assimilated." They say that in Germany, but they continue their assimilation, rejection and denial on their own land every day. Look, lately they've been discussing the execution without any need. Who's been arguing about this execution? An unknown political party in Turkey, a party of what's been voted in a thousand, what's been picked up here, where they've been involved in so many murders in the past, in the past, and today, by triggering the execution, they're trying to get a political opportunity, and Mr. Prime Minister comes out and negotiates with it for a long time. Ya, you can't solve the problem by gesturing Kurdish language, identity, culture, execution of Kurds. I mean, you should be able to sit at the table and talk about this problem together. But you look back, and they say, "Sir, there's a show going on." And then there's no one on the death line. E, how in the political world, certain institutions of this country, when they're educated for the government in universities, they get a lie education first, to cover up all the sins of the state. Now, in the political world, under this dome, there's no lie they haven't told about Kurds. Now, look, he did a term in the Ministry of Justice, then he served as Deputy Prime Minister, and today he's Vice President of the AKP. What's he saying? The PKKK can kill someone who's at a critical point in prisons. It means that there are those who are at the critical point, and you've already tried to cover them when the deaths occurred. The PKKK can execute inside. (Adjective conscience!) Aren't you ashamed to lie so much, to lie to these languages, to these identities, to these cultures, when you should have given them the right to live? You're talking about the Ottomans... Now, I just heard the preacher, and I just heard him on the commission. His whole policy is made up of cliche words, all of whom he investigates, especially all of the Kurds, who are of the Turkish bloodline. Is it a civilized language or not? If you ban the language for years... one of them says it's not the civil language. One says it's not the language of science. One says it's not the language of science. You ban Turkish for a hundred years. Let me see if it's a language of science. But even so, Kurdish, look, no novels, no literature, and you know how literarys grow, despite all the pressure. In the geography next to you, you can also see how Kurdish education continues from primary school to university. You're talking about the Ottomans. In the Ottoman era, look at the Ottomans... the Ottomans were neutral to all identities, neutral to all beliefs. The Kurds were in Urbana, Diyarbakır, İstanbul, and Van. In their own language, do you call it a university, or do you go back and say, "Is it madrese?" There was Kurdish literature and language and Kurdish education there. So do not wrong your tongues. Dear friends, the defense, the main language defense, is already being discussed in the commissions at work today. If Kurdish had been educated, we wouldn't really be interested in any of this today, we wouldn't be talking about this fight, we'd be fighting for a bigger Turkey, we wouldn't be opening new prisons, we wouldn't be showing the ear backwards. If he had been educated in the native language, we would be doing different things on these commissions today, important things about the future of the country, about the future of our children. Now, look, well, I'm asking you: whoever's on this land will be able to identify themselves. We'll respect that identity. We'll give you all the cultural rights, constitutional rights of that identity, we'll recognize it. We will respect his language. Is there any objection to that now? It's Mr. Arinc who said that. He told me here. So there's a language here, there's a culture, there's a people, we'll do it. It's not something we give out of our pocket, it's not a blessing, it's what we want, as much as any of us in this country who say I'm Kurd. Here we also put our signature under the words of Mr. Arinc, who came out and said it. If that's what you're saying, if that's not just words said in the Parliament to caress feelings in certain areas, if it's not detections, then there's a rule in aviation, usually between passengers and stewardesses, when they make calls, when they make promises, then they don't call each other. They return, and the promise in the air stays in the air. The political world shouldn't go out here and leave things in the air that are only promiseable to society, and it should do it. Then one commission, the President of the Constitutional Commission -- I promise we'll make him a new constitution -- we'll all look at it as a wonder -- is to ask for education in the mother tongue is to obey the devil. So, where do you come up with this evil idea? Yes, we Kurds want to train in the native language, and if it's evil, we follow the devil. What right do you have? What right have you to be so racist, so nationalist? Now, how can such a Constitutional Commission president come up with a social compromise, a new constitution? Well, I'm sorry, but sometimes when I see you... in the past, I see you as a different version of nationalist fronts. At the time, he said Turkesh, he was in prison: we are in prison, we are in power. There is no need for the National Movement Party to object today. They are in opposition, but their thoughts are in power. Now, those who talk about the execution, those who have forgiven those who killed seven TIP students in an hour and then brought up the execution again, I ask you: Who did you get that right from? You've forgiven those who were sentenced to death seven times, who gave you that right? Today you're re-setting the gallows against your opponents. The problem is education in the native language. That's the fight on the mountain, that's the fight in prison. For those who have resisted for 30 years, the price they all pay is the demand for education in the native language, living together. There's no need to paint such utopias and confuse the public. The Kurds have united their fate with the people in this geography, they have integrated it, but they want to live equally; yes, they want status, they want a democratic republic, they want democratic autonomy, they want to express their native language freely in every aspect of life, and it's not a blessing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's human to be reasonable about these demands. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0047par0089	Thank you, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0048par0090	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about bullying.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0047par0091	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu. Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0048par0095	Members of parliament, your ancestors were cruel. He said, "The Ottoman State was neutral." I don't know which one to believe.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0049par0096	I'm talking about the republican era.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0048par0097	If he was cruel and tried to assimilate, then all of the Kurds would have been speaking Turkish or Turkish. Now, look, they say we're racist. The real racism comes out here in its own words, and I don't even have to say anything else.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0049par0099	I'm not racist, I'm human, that's all.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0048par0100	Second, my talks about the Ottoman State, or my talks about Human Rights, are referred to as the words that have been addressed above, or the words that have been spoken. What I said above was that everyone must be given the right to defend and that they should be able to defend themselves. It's a cliche; yes, it's true, and the whole world says it. Human Rights is also found in Article 11 of the Universal Declaration. Some words will, of course, become clichés, but never forget that the words you refer to as clicked are universal. We're not the ones who want to change universal words, you are. Secondly, you want a flag next to what you call your innocent wishes, you want an autonomous zone with what you want innocently. You're talking about living together.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0050par0102	The autonomous zone is not division! Teacher, don't say that!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0048par0103	No, you're telling me yourself. There are reports here, too.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0050par0104	Were the Ottomans educated or not? Was there or was there no Kurdish education?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0048par0105	You call it education in the madrases. There is no such thing as Kurdish education in Medrases, and even Turkish education is limited, usually Arabic. The scientific language was used in Arabic in Ottomans, and the decent language was used in Persians. Now, you keep talking about Kurdish here. Tell me the Kurdish book written on that date. Is it written or written in Kurdish?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0051par0106	It's written.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0048par0107	You're talking about a mem u Zin, aren't you? Mem u Zin. What else?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0051par0108	Fakiye Teyran...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0048par0109	Say something other than Mem u Zin. No...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0051par0111	Fakiye Teyran...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0052par0112	Melaye Jiziri, Ahmadi Hani, Fakiye Teyran, Ali Hariri...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0048par0113	I mean, a civilization this wide, this big...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0053par0114	Let's give you a long Kurdish literature seminar, Hajji.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0054par0115	Man, they gave out all those books at the Clave.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0055par0116	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Now, as opposed to the motion...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0056par0119	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0057par0120	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0055par0121	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0057par0122	The previous Hatibin said on the stand that his ideas in prison belong to Mr. Aktay Güner, not to the late Turkesh Bey who was in power.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0058par0123	That's what we know.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0057par0124	Falsely known, Aghoktay belongs to Güner Bey.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0058par0125	It's always in the media.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0059par0126	Okay, well, that settles it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0060par0128	It's the truth.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0059par0129	That's right. Now, as opposed to you, Diyarbakır MP Mr. Friday Inner... [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0061par0136	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY against the BDP Group proposal. The EC PARTY was established in 2001 and ruled by the 2002 November 3rd elections. Since the day it was established and the day it was in power, we've been making revolutionary reforms that have marked centuries in the history of the country, and we're creating a new civilization. Before 2002, someone made religious, language, race, sectarian distinctions in this country. As there was never peace, prosperity, happiness in the country, everyone from leftist to rightist was disturbed, needless and pointlessly young saplings were imprisoned, and large hearts were hanged on the gallows. There have been unsolved murders, tortures, burnings of the village; people have been displaced from their homeland, from their homes, from their homes, from their jobs, and have been assimilated into migration. Speaking in the native language was considered a crime, and the mothers of those who were in prison were forbidden from speaking in the mother tongue. It has been seen that people are qualified to listen to music in their own language, to read newspapers, to communicate, to be tortured. Until 2001, it was impossible to be Kurd; to express yourself in Kurdish; to write, to draw; to build Kurdish television and radio channels; to listen to them. I didn't have any of this yesterday. Those who said that were always thrown into prisons, victims of unsolved murders. Today, the politicians still demanded the removal of the State of Emergency in the East and the Southeast. He was afraid to say more, to even speak. Democratic rights were underfoot and freedoms were being blocked. A new era opened, and the nation said, "The word belongs to the nation." The AK PARTY became very powerful. We have taken serious steps to remove all obstacles to freedoms and democratisation in the EC PARTY, and today we continue to take these steps. We have not failed our nation's support and trust, we have been fighting for freedom for 11 years, and we will continue to give. For ten years, when we were in power in three general elections, we were the only party to increase their vote, becoming the first party in all parts of Turkey. The only party that received votes from Kurds and Turks in the region and across the country was the EC PARTY.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0062par0141	Did the British vote?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0061par0142	AK PARTI received a single vote from two people in many provinces, including Malatya, Elazig, Urbana, Adıyaman, Bingol, Gaziantep. So, what did we do to get this courtesy? We have done things that no one can show courage, no one can reveal his heart, no one can do. And while we were doing all that, I'm afraid we struggled with custody agencies. While we serve the public, someone insists on this country's development and growth. We became a country of the world, a model for all Muslim countries in the Middle East. Someone can't stand it, and they're in pain. Despite all obstacles, we have taken steps for this country's love, despite those who had given it reason and support the activities of the terrorist organization yesterday, despite those who said, "You will divide the country." Look what we've done in the name of freedom. First, we removed the State of Emergency. We did not allow them to burn the village, to evacuate it; rather, we provided return to the village, compensations for the victims.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0063par0144	I've been a victim for 19 years, not for God.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0061par0145	We've brought freedom to travel and we've buried the search for roads in history. As a victim of torture in the 2000s, I know what torture is, and we have buried torture in history. We've closed the files on 17,500 unsolved murders. We've asked for accounts of gangs that have turned Kurdish-dominated areas into a pool of blood, kidnapping, killing on behalf of the state. Whatever its mission in this country, we've arranged for all those who have committed crimes on behalf of the state or criminal gangs, their organizations to answer to the courts. Whatever religion, language, and race, we've created environments where everyone can express themselves. We opened schools and institutes for Kurdish language and literature at universities. We've opened TRT Shesh. It's about thirty now, and we've got radios on twice as high as this one. They can all broadcast 24 hours, broadcast in Kurdish. We have arranged for prisoners in prison to meet with their mothers and relatives in Kurdish. Our Ministry of Culture has published and published it in bandrolls, as well as the original of the works written in Kurdish. Regardless of the language, we studied to learn the native language in courses and then in national education schools, electively, to learn the language of the person who wanted to learn the language, and we got results. And now we've established the basis for everyone's defence in their own native language by bringing defence to the agenda of Congress. We specifically converted Southeast and East Anatolia to construction sites and tried to fit investments that hadn't been made in over 80 years into ten years. We've opened dams, power plants, factories in the area with GAP, GOP action plans. Is that enough? No, we're still opening it. We're doing international flights in every county, including Hakkari. We've connected all the provinces to double roads. We've taken drinking water, roads, electricity to all the villages. We're still making history with SOCIS and BELDES projects. We've created our people's living spaces as a habitable human habitat. We've moved unemployment numbers from 11 per cent to 8.5 per cent. The dams, which will end in 2016, will water 1.5 million hectares in the region, and 1.5 million Kurdish youths in this 1.5 million areas will find work and work. In our Diyarbakır alone, 500,000 people will have found work because of the dams. This is all happening with the power of the AK PARTY, and it's going to continue to happen. While we struggle for democracy and freedom, as always, someone continues to prevent them. We do these rights because we're looking for rights and freedoms, not because of someone calling for a shout, not because of acts of terror.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0064par0153	Do you or do you not support primary language education? Confirm investigation motion.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0061par0154	We're still missing things. Is there still work to be done? Yes, there is. Is our struggle for freedom over? No, it's not. To stop the blood flowing for over 80 years.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0064par0155	Support the motion.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0065par0156	What do you say to the mother tongue, mother tongue? Yes or no?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0061par0157	...no one expects us to finish these in three or five years. For 28 years, the PKK has been slaughtering Kurds and Turks, so-called freedom.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0065par0158	What about the mother tongue? Yes or no?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0061par0159	So what does he want? What he wants is indecision, death, blood, hunger, and prison.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0066par0160	Mr. Friday, is it yes or no to primary language education? Say it.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0065par0161	Friday, is that a yes or a no?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0061par0162	Who are they who come with other demands besides that, when the mother tongue has been taught and defended? I'll have to ask you that, too. The PKK stands in front of Kurdish freedoms...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0066par0163	We're not talking about the PKK. Is that a yes or a no?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0065par0164	Friday, are you saying yes or no to the main language? Friday, what do you say, yes or no?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0061par0165	... It's the biggest obstacle, friends, not the Kurdish problem. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] There is a problem with PKK terrorism and hatred. As we carry out all these freedoms, those who are supposedly defending this right attack us.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0065par0168	Friday, what do you say, yes or no?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0061par0169	Those who see the state and the AK PARTY as enemies now should know that the people will no longer be subject to their oppression. We are not on the side of death, we are on the side of life, and we believe that human life is precious. We come from a tradition that believes that a man who kills a man kills all men. Although we brought all the freedoms today, the people who raised their voice gave the best answer in the chest and will continue to give it to those who couldn't speak Kurdish in prisons yesterday. There is nothing left to prevent anyone from expressing themselves within the scope of the law. Once again, the Kurds have been living in this land, which has been their home for 5,000 years now. They were forbidden to speak their mother tongue, their existence not recognized by the law, but had no democratic rights. Who says it's time to stop? Who stepped up for this? We're just saying that this is what happened when the party that produced services instead of words said it was the AK PARTY. We've decided to stop any injustice, and we'll keep saying it. We've turned the area into an agricultural, education and health base, and we'll keep bringing it in. Major distances have been made to prevent democratisation, transparency and corruption with the EC PARTY power. For ten years, the EC PARTY has said that Kurds have nothing to do with the formal language of Turkish, the integrity of the country's territory and the single flag, while politicians in parliament say that, while some lawmakers say that the EC PARTY and the Prime Minister will solve all these problems, what happened is that these friends suddenly shut up. I want to thank everyone who's listened to me with respect, because my time is up.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0067par0177	Do you support the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0068par0178	Yes or no, you didn't just say yes or no!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0069par0179	Your Eminence, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0070par0180	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0069par0181	Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0070par0182	Speaking of democratic autonomy, I'd like to make it clear to you that there is a integration policy, not a dissolution policy, but a statement of Friday Bey.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0069par0183	Please, in two minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0071par0184	So we didn't find out if he said yes or no in the native language, Mr. Sýrý Bey?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0070par0185	That's what I'm gonna ask.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0069par0186	Let your friend talk. Hello again, friends. Now, I just said here that it's not a dissolution project, it's a integration project. It's not just a demand for Kurdish geography, for Kurdistan. There are such practices in hundreds of places around the world, and no country is divided, and no one's ever come out here to flag us... and we've never had that kind of demand. That's your weakness. The country is being divided, you're trying to keep people alive with flags, banners, etc., or whatever, Hamasi speeches.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0072par0191	Didn't your mayor tell you?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0073par0192	Now look, I, Mr. Friday, am asking you in conscience whether education in the native language is a right or not. Don't talk to me about violence, guns, PKK. I didn't say anything about a culture of hostility. Tell me if education in the native language is right or not. Secondly, you found the unsubs! I'm one of a dozen unsubs from my family, and each of our friends has an unsub in their home. My brother, Gaziantep, was a politician on democratic grounds, a mayor, and was murdered there, no perpetrator. I give an example of myself, and I apologize to all the public. His village was burned down, his house burned down, his hotel shut down, and I was victimized for years. I can count hundreds of villages for you in the district of Idris Bey, our Bingol MP, and in my constituency and Kurdish geography. The state's gone, burned it with its tank, its cannon, its epaulet; it's gone, but it's been 19 years, and the damage hasn't been paid. You turn around, you present a beautiful painting. The killers of the unsubs have not been found. Look, Ergenekon is on trial, many of Ergenekon is not on trial for murder in Kurdish geography, but for murder in Kurdish geography. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's why you did so, that you really tried to innocenten Ergenekon, those perpetrators. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0074par0197	Thank you, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0075par0198	Mr. President, I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0073par0199	I asked if education in the native language is right or not.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0074par0200	Mr. Sakek, please, you asked. You'll be in in a minute.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0076par0203	I am Zazim, my village has been burned five times by the government. I've stated here that the AK PARTY is the government that found the perpetrator of 17,000,500 unsolved murders. Do we still have things we don't find? There is. They're all on trial in Silivri, in the ACK operations, here. You gave me this opportunity, I want to continue. The EC PARTY has said for ten years that Kurds have had nothing to do with Turkey's formal language, the integrity of the country's territory and the single flag, while the politicians in parliament say so, some lawmakers have admitted that the EC PARTY and the Prime Minister will solve all these problems, and they are shutting down now.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0077par0205	Those guys are on a hunger strike, Mr. Friday.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0076par0206	Somebody better stop being the political representative of those with guns on the mountain. I'm sorry, white casts aren't like that.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0078par0207	So what are you saying? We ask you, [O Muhammad], about education in the mother tongue.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0076par0208	Let everyone know that the services of the EC PARTY in the region and Turkey cannot be done by other political parties. I also believe that some shortcomings will be resolved by the Constitution. I have every confidence that the will of the House will solve any problem. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0079par0211	Thank you. Talks on the Peace and Democracy Party motion are complete. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Now, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Date: 15.11.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Thursday 15,11,2012 (now) there is no consensus among political party groups, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. Our parliamentary research motion for the Grand National Assembly's Agenda, which is part of the Section 10/312 for General Interview and Assembly Research, was proposed to be read at the General Assembly on Thursday 15,11,2012, where its talks will be held in today's Union, in order to determine "the measures which should be taken by investigating the issue of loans following the law." The first speaker, Kahramanmarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu, is on the proposal of the National Movement Party. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0080par0232	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on the parliamentary research motion that we've submitted regarding the law-following SME loans. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, economic and social policies imposed by the government have begun to have a negative effect on all parts of our society. Our workers, civil servants, retired and low-income citizens have suffered a great deal in the face of high rates of natural gas, electricity, and fuel hikes. In the face of small raises made by the government, our citizens were unable to breathe in the face of a large increase of needle and thread in the market. Our farmers and our tradesmen are no different from our workers, civil servants, pensioners and small-time citizens. Both of these segments, unfortunately, have become unrequited today. Our citizens and the SMEs, which we used to refer to as Anadolı Lions, are in great distress today because of the wrong economic policies. They're drowning in the interest of banks. There is trouble in every area in our country. Our farmers have lost their village before anything else today. The villages they were born in, where they grew up were the neighborhoods. He was turned into a neighborhood without being asked by the government. The Metropolitan Law, issued by the government despite all our warnings, will significantly affect the production of agriculture and livestock in our Kahramanmarash province and other provinces. In thirteen counties, our coveted villages and towns have been destroyed. Because of our high prices, our farmers can't get enough money to feed the animals. In Turkey, agriculture and livestock are at an end. Mr. President, esteemed MPs, if we want the country to develop altogether, we must first do this development with our villages and peasants. We have to include our small tradesmen and our SMEs in this development. You can't ignore these businesses, which contribute greatly to employment, economics, and development. Do not destroy these businesses by making domestic capital uncompetitive to imports. Our country is now an import graveyard. Come, as the government, let's give domestic capital the necessary importance and pave the way for the development of the country. We have a large number of citizens eating bread from the SME. THE problems of the SME must be dealt with and solved. THE SMEs have become more troubled than they have been in any time. The following loan debts of the COBI are increasing steadily. Economic crisis continues in almost every aspect of our country. The crisis affected even the smallest tradesman. Now the shopkeeper can't pay the rent, the tax and the insurance. In many areas, production is down, and employment is not available. The challenges of agriculture and livestock affect the industry and the SMEs in a negative way. The industry is constantly taking raw matter from the outside, and it's become dependent on the outside of raw matter. Even in the production of animal food, even in raw materials today, Turkey has become almost dependent on the outside, which unfortunately includes the import of hay. Unemployment is still one of the most important problems in our country. Hundreds of people are unemployed and apply for unemployment insurance because of jobs that close every day. Unpayable credit and credit card debts continue to increase. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, thousands of small and medium-sized business loans, the backbone of the economy, have been followed by false economic policies. In addition to high taxes, SMEs have become uncompetitive to constant gas and electricity increases. The SMEs have reduced production, and they're looking to close down their follow-up loans. The crisis continues to have the biggest impact on social work, again, on unemployment. Thousands of our citizens are still losing their jobs and vaccines. Our unemployed citizens are getting new unemployed every day. The number of closed companies is constantly increasing. The number of closed companies has increased by 17.03 per cent, while the small business district has reduced the number of income tax-active taxpayers 13.147 in the last year. The number of companies that have been closed and the shortage of small businesses continues to negatively affect production and employment. Employees, civil servants, pensioners, and workers have fallen into a negative influence on the household kitchens, markets and markets. The recession in the market and market trade also leads to protests and checks being bounced. In 2011, about 3 billion 463 million-dollar bonds were protested because they could not be paid at their due date. Within the same year, the number of protest bonds increased to 671,789. The number of bounced checks in April has also been determined to be 181,963. This year, the small, medium-sized business in the backbone of thousands of economies failed to pay off its loan debt and was followed. The cash loans used by SMEs increased by 4.9 per cent by the end of July 2012 to 170 billion 793m euros. The loans of SMEs, banks, have increased by 5.3 per cent during this period to $5 billion 487 million. The cash loans used by the SMEs increased by 4.9 per cent from the end of July 2012 to 170 billion 793m euros. The loans for tracking SMEs increased by 5.3 per cent during this period to $5 billion 487 million. According to data released by the Banking Editing and Control Board, loans were increased by 8.8 per cent compared to $5 billion 903m compared to the end of 2011. The annual increase in loans was 18.3%. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the SMEs, are trying to close loans they can't pay, with new loans. The annual follow-up of SME loans has increased by 6.5 per cent. During this period, the number of SMEs following credits has been determined to be 160,545, with a decline of 4.1 per cent. With high hopes, transportation, housing, and need loans from banks have also been monitored. Unfortunately, the dream of having a home like the rent of thousands of our citizens was sacrificed because of an unmanageable economy. According to data from the Turkish Bank Association, 41 per cent of the loans followed today consist of housing, 31 per cent need, 14 per cent transport loans. In order for the country's economy to prosper, we must have our SMEs, our agriculture, our livestock. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0081par0250	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. The second speaker, Mr. Osman Ören, is a member of the Siirt MP. Mr. Kören, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0082par0255	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the National Movement Party's motion to investigate the Parliament. I salute you all. The disciplined approach to public finance, the strong structure of our banking sector, structural reforms implemented, and as a result, the high performance in the areas of growth and employment is the success of the AK PARTI power and our economy. Especially in 2009, when the global crisis felt strongly around the world, and then its strong stance on public finances, the fact that it was able to take the measure and timely measures needed to achieve the macroeconomic and financial goals envisioned in programmes, continuing to implement critical structural reforms to support growth and employment, has led to the rise of Turkey's credit rating in this period, in which many developed countries have fallen behind credit notes. Turkey, along with its high growth performance in 2010 and 2011, has effectively used financial and monetary policy tools and, if necessary, took macro precautionary steps on time, providing an effective transition from domestic demand-based growth to external demand-based growth. Decisions made during this successful transition have also been effective, which ensures the economic endurance of the economy. The most recent information on the following individual loans is dated November 2, 2012. The best segregated data for SME and commercial/communist loans is from September 2012. As of November 2, 2012, individual loans followed totaled 8.147 million Turkish liras and increased by 22.5 per cent compared to the end of the year. Among the following individual loans, credit cards are ranked first with 49.4%. In the same way, the rate of transformation is high on credit cards with 5.5 per cent of individual loans. On the other hand, as of September 2012, the following SME loans were 6 billion Turkish liras and increased by 16 per cent compared to the end of the year. The rate of transformation of COBI loans is 3.4 per cent. At this rate, 0.3 points have increased by the end of the year. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers funded the banking sector, mainly active growth due to loans and mandatory responses in 2012, with an increase in debt to deposits, exported securities and banks. In 2012, the amount of funds created through the export of securities increased by $15 billion and became the second major foreign source in the year after the increase of $42.5 billion in deposits. In October 2009, the rate of transformation to 5.4 per cent of the chase has been reduced, especially by the slowdown of the 2010 and 2011 problem loan collections and the follow-up collection. As of the last quarter of 2011, the transformation rate began to follow a horizontal course, and in the third quarter of 2012, the trend turned upward and took place at 2.9% as of September 2012. As of September 2012, the rate of deposits to convert into loans was 105.5%, and I think this level is a very important indicator of the efficiency of our current banking, but it also points to the need for increasing savings. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, consumer loans have also increased rapidly in our country in parallel with economic development. The trend of rapid increase from the assets of the household's obligations has been significantly slowed as a result of decisions taken by the BDDK on 20 June 2011, in response to transport and non-residential consumer loans and towards increasing risk weights. As a result of these measures, the need to reach 50 per cent as of June 2011 and the annual growth rate of other consumer loans has been reduced to 15 per cent by September 2012. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as I've been trying to tell you, from the past, especially before the AK PARTI came to power, our society's sense of credit and credit card use has been improved, and our people have been on the path of debt. In order to borrow, demand the loan he can repay, and to make that decision according to market conditions, there have been recent reports by the banks themselves. Finally, I want to end my promise by giving you two numbers. First, the total percentage of loans in Turkey's banking sector was 23 per cent in 2002, while that figure was 57.7% in October 2012. What does that mean? A bank has been able to convert more than half of its total assets into loans, so the bank has trusted those who ask for credit. Second, Turkey's banking sector had a total rate of 21.2 per cent in 2002. In October 2012, it was only three percent gross. Even the figures of these events alone show that it is not necessary for the motion to be brought up at this time. As AK PARTY power, our nation's distress is our burden, no one doubts it. We see the success of our economy management when we look at the current picture. If there is a measure necessary, I would like to congratulate and appreciate once again our economy management, which has taken place on time and quickly, as before. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers say that the proposal for the agenda of the National Movement Party Group's research proposal is not appropriate due to the intensity of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's agenda, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0083par0273	Thank you, Mr. Kören. Now, to your advantage, Mr. Erdal Aksinger of İzmir... Mr. Aksinger, please.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0084par0277	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the CHP Group on the parliamentary research motion by the MHP Group regarding the SME issues. I salute you all. I think it's really unfortunate what our AKP MP friend said about the SME delaying the parliamentary agenda. Now, why did Turkey come here? I'm going to try to open it up with the globalization process of the process: primitive society, agricultural society, industrial society, and then information society. So, when the industrial community's end process begins, what is the international capital trying to resist? He's trying to resist globalization. What was the expression that expressed globalization and claimed that global capital would add value to where global capital is going in the international arena? He said it would add value to where he was going in production, industry, employment. So, is that what's coming today? Actually, it's going the other way. In the 1990s, the beginning of the knowledge society, particularly symbolizing the end of the industrial community, was the period when globalisation and global capital, in fact, tried to make the world's rhetoric acceptable to countries through political pressure. Why is that? What did he say in the 1970s? We're going to go, we're going to add serious values to the countries in terms of employment, and we're going to break down the borders. Now that these policies are over, the global capital is virtually moving around, as the information society actually comes into play. Why am I telling you this? Because SMEs are a group that performs 90 percent of production in countries like ours. So the value it brings into the country with its industry and its trade is 90 percent of the total economy and 90 percent of the employment. So, what happens next when the process gets here? I'll give you a very important example. Why did globalization bring this up? There's a company called Google, which you all know very well -- which we're always trying to say -- in the process, we're actually warning the current government about -- there's a company called Google. I'll give you an example. It was founded in the early 2000s. It's been 12 years. How much is it worth at the point it came from? When you add up all of Turkey's industry and trade volumes, when you round up industrial companies, it's not two-thirds. Look, it's one company. So, where's this from? Now I'm going to add value to where I'm going. Global capital, like Google, like Facebook or so on, began to exploit these developing countries that it went to. So, what does it do when you look at it from here? What kind of employment does he create? He doesn't create any jobs, and he doesn't pay taxes to that country. Are you working on that? No, you're not. So, is the world really in this ignorance? Yeah, the world's in this mess right now. Progress in the coming process will also lead to worse jobs. SMEs, especially in developing countries, Turkey, have this example. If you're doing 90 per cent of the economics here, then you must be in a new action plan here at 100 per cent. Is there such a plan of action? No, I don't. 100 percent of the outside money you're trying to keep the economy going. So, what's going on with the outside money, where's the outside money coming from? 70 percent of the money comes to the stock market; it buys banks, buys markets, buys insurance companies. So, if you give an example of what he's doing as a direct investment, he's buying your companies that are making a profit in existence, perhaps at a very small amount. And where does that put all the pressure? Of course, he puts serious pressure on SMEs who produce there and trade with the SMEs. Who crawls through the doors of these markets, who crawls around selling goods or selling services to them? In the present, today, in fact, the COBIs we talk about are crawling. There are hundreds of companies in the doors, in windows, waiting to get money from markets for six months, actually, so is the trader, and so is the manufacturer. Now, of course, it's coming to the stock market from one side. Now, when we look at the stock market values, how does the world change... what does the stock market really say? Since the world's development, since the beginning of the industrial revolution, the market's statement is that the stock market says that national values are spreading to the bottom, so national capital is spreading to the bottom. Is this how the stock market stands in a lot of countries, including Turkey today? No, it doesn't. The foreigners have seized 70 percent of the stock market. So the capital doesn't spread. And where does that come from? That's what the global deer brings, and as long as you don't see it, that's how the future process is going to develop. Now look at the financial values and real sector values, as the real sector's profit decreases -- the profits of the real sector, which has been reduced by 28% last year, the financial sector's profits have increased by 19 percent, which means that the financial sector is growing, but the real sector is coming down because as the profit values go down, don't worry -- it's obvious that we're going to face serious employment problems, and if we don't see it and take precautions, we're going to have a lot of trouble. Is this Turkey's problem alone? No, it's not. It's the problem with this global deer that's actually developing in the world. I can't get past a few things, especially about this Syrian thing, which I'm more interested in, of course, but what if, when they ask, are you with this Assad? Are you with him? Are you with him? No, brother, we are against him as many imperialist men as there are. What happened today in Syria, I think, is an invasive issue. I'll give you a very simple example: in 1978, in Egypt -- especially after Cemal Nasir had left, when Cemal Nasir went and Enver Sedat came to power -- an agreement was made called the "Camp David" deal, which was actually under the leadership of the United States. In this agreement, he said: "From now on, you will not deal with Israel, my brother. And what was the general expression of the Arab Union until then? In fact, Egypt was the focus of all anti-escienceists, all anti-emperists. After 1978, it was no longer there, it was moved to Damascus, and, as you know, the Palestinian Liberation Organization, perhaps it was Damascus where they went when they chased the leftists in this country, or where all the Hamas would flourish, and Hezbollah would actually flourish. What's happening now? Damascus is infested right now. This has nothing to do with Assad. It has nothing to do with him. Actually, this has something to do with where an invasive, imperialist system wants to go. That's what it's really about when you look at it. Well, what's there to support that? Yes, why did we discuss this today when we discussed the KOBI? The financial incentives in the coming process support it because the financial sector, which holds the world, supports all such movements in the world one-on-one. Here, look at the history of America, what did it do when it first arrived in the founding history of the FED, in the 1907s? He's sunk 14,000 banks. Why did he screw it up? There's only one power that wants to take over the entire financial sector, and that's the financial capital power in America. After he's sunk 14,000 banks, he's causing the First World War. The same thing is happening today in our geography. I don't understand why we have to stop seeing this. So the fundamental problem here is that this is how the Second World War started, all of its economic data. Today, the KKOBI... we call it, go east, they've all fallen out of production. Actually, there's a bunch of COBIs down from production all over the place. I know from my own sector, all foreign institutions have come to Turkey, bought every store, every institution, and condemned everyone to themselves now. That's how it's going to go down from here. So if you don't develop a plan of action on this, that's how it's gonna go down. Now we're looking at serious growth in the financial sector, world giants coming in, buying banks. He's going virtually all over the world, you know, one-on-one, physically, he's not going virtually anymore, he's going online, he's going through market values or derivatives, so he's making money on those derivatives. It's not creating employment, it's taking over the financial sector when it's settled in every country it's started to put pressure on. Today this is not Turkey's problem, it's the world's problem. If we deceive ourselves by saying, "If we don't take measures, if we don't take them, if we don't take them in future processes, whether they're in agriculture, whether they're in production, if they're in business, if we don't take precautions, it looks like it's going to go somewhere else. By making excuses, sir, they bring money. They bring money, what do they do with it? We have a strong bank system... you don't have one. What is your strong bank system? How much for Turkey's foreign debt? A lot of private sectors... how much of this is in banks? Close to 70% of banks. Who vouched for that? The government vouched for it? Who vouched for him? That's what the citizen vouched for. So it's not your story that's too strong. When it sinks somewhere in the world, it sinks here, too. It's not enough that the one in Turkey went down alone. If it's sinking somewhere in the world, it's sinking here, too. I salute you all, friends.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit04spe0085par0292	I'd like to thank Mr. Erdal Aksunger. Now, I'm taking a 45-minute break on the occasion of combat. I also wish that the meetings of our fellow worshippers be accepted.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0085par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations on the nationalist movement group proposal. In turn, against the proposal, Mr. Ziver Özdemir. Mr. Özdemir, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0086par0007	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Council's motion to investigate the loans given by the National Movement Party to determine the measures to be taken against the following SME and citizens. I salute you all. The AK PARTY Authority is a party that always worries about the problems of citizens, about the problems of the citizens, that puts its hands on the stone to address them. I'm specifically saying this so that the AK PARTY is not perceived as having such an agenda. The AK PARTI Power has achieved important things, especially in the last decade, with very successful economic management, and has achieved many dreams in the economy, taking the country to its most important points. Now, with these facts out in the open, and with such a intensity of the parliamentary agenda, I find it not appropriate for the numbers to be presented with a research proposal for a reason that neither concrete facts support it, because it is clear how successful the EC PARTI period was, especially compared to what happened before the EC PARTI. Look, especially in 2009 and then, despite the economic crisis that has brought many countries around the world to the brink of bankruptcy, Turkey's economy has become a country that has drawn attention to its strong structure in both Europe and the world, and is coveted. As a result of this successful performance, credit rating has recently been raised by credit rating companies. In the banking sector, the total ratio of loans to assets increased to 57.7 per cent in 2002, as of this year's October. That means that banks have converted a large percentage of their assets into loans, so there's been an increase in loans depending on demand growth. And finally, I want to tell you what's very important is that the total rate of debt in the banking sector is 21.2 per cent in 2002; this year, as of October, gross 3 per cent. On the grounds of the motion, however, there is a statement taken from the banks with high hopes, following the travel, housing, and needs loans. Now, I'd like to ask the citizen the credibility of this. The previous orator stated that there was a decline in production, especially regarding the SMEs. On the contrary, the increase in COBIs during the AK PARTY is reflected in all of the citizens in Anatolia. In particular, with the latest incentive law, I would like to set an example in the country -- for the knowledge that I am a member of the nation -- especially with textiles, there are about 4,000 people working at the moment. So it's an industry that's participating in new production, creating new jobs.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0087par0013	Do you know that the money hasn't been paid in five months, the KOSGEB loans?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0086par0014	We also know about KOSGEB, Congressman.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0087par0015	Tell me that too.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0086par0016	In particular, I'm well aware of the situation of previous, 2002, pre-AK PARTY companies, the market situation. I'm a friend of yours from the manufacturing industry and I'm a brother of yours who lived with banks and businessmen, producers, in what position, in what way. For him, right now, we're a government in the AK PARTI era, especially about economic development, and as a reflection of that, we've introduced the entire social state principle to the citizens. That's especially for everyone who's interested in production, and that's agriculture, and while we're doing these operations, we're seeing the reflection of this to one citizen. And the citizen, by the principle of social government, by the poverty of the poor, feels its transportation, its health, its education, its services in all areas, and the citizen sees it in its own reflection. It's just, as in the past, a handful of minorities have removed all the resources, 90 percent of this country, the remaining 10 percent of its resources, with an unfair share of the entire, 75 million people at the moment, during the AK PARTI, alhamdulillah. We're following an economy that reflects on one-on-one, that's in the pocket of one-on-one citizens, that's covering the welfare of one-on-one citizens, the peace and economic development of one-on-one citizens, and we're following the program, and...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0087par0017	Then why are the businesses closing, Congressman? Why are they shutting down their businesses?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0086par0018	...we also get people to pray for him, and this is from 2002 to today... Now, dear friends, the country's economy is the source of all things, social justice, social peace, and one of the main nuances of people's welfare and peace. If the ten-year-old AK PARTY in the economy hadn't succeeded, 75 million people, our citizens, of course, would have been rewarded in the polls. So don't worry about the opposition parties, and in the future, hopefully, we'll continue to serve our country with the vision of 2023.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0087par0020	You didn't say that before the elections, we'll sell the town, we'll close the factories. You didn't say that.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0086par0021	My dear Regent, we don't close factories. I'm sorry. You have no knowledge of Anatolia, of the land at that time. If you go and visit Anatolia, if you visit the provinces of Anatolia...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0087par0022	You don't travel Asia Minor as far as I do a tenth.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0086par0023	This isn't a lecture on seats, it's not just a lecture on the platforms.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0087par0024	This isn't a lecture.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0086par0025	You're going to go down to Anatolia, you're going to go around the province, you're going to see the economics of these people in real numbers. You'll go to Diyarbakır, you'll go to Batman, you'll go to Siirt. Just by giving speeches here, this economy doesn't improve, social peace doesn't come, social justice doesn't come. In every election, our citizens mark our actions as AK PARTY -- under ten years -- and in every election, they go to the polls and crown this success.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0087par0027	We'll see, we'll see...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0086par0028	We will continue on this path as we know it, with the support of our people. Of course, it's the opposition's duty... if you do yours, how much more can we serve the city? If you support us, if you tell us what we're missing, it's better at this point; it's not just the talking. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0088par0031	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Movement Party...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0089par0033	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0088par0034	You're asking for a sufficient number of decisions, over. Talks have been completed on the National Party of Action's proposal according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. Now, I'm going to submit the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0090par0039	Count it, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0088par0040	The proposal is not accepted, there is enough to decide. The Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0091par0042	Is there enough to decide, Mr. President? Is there enough to decide here?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0092par0043	President, is there?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0088par0044	They say they do, they do.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0093par0045	Now count, are there enough people?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0094par0046	Dear clerks, clerks, let's see if we have any. Mayor, this doesn't suit you! There's not enough of a decision here! Mr. President, there's not enough decision-making here!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0095par0049	Number five glasses, five! It's a shame. Is there, for God's sake?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0096par0050	Sir, there are enough decisions. I said, my friends agree with me.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0094par0051	Mr. President, the clerks have lost credibility. There's not enough of a decision here!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0097par0052	Count it, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0094par0053	Your Honor, there's no decision enough here. I bet you don't. Here, count it.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0098par0054	All right. Sir, let's...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0099par0056	Is there enough to decide here?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0098par0057	If you'll excuse me... okay, okay, sit down.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0100par0058	Get the doors closed. Have the doors closed, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0098par0059	Excuse me, excuse me, sir. As long as there's an objection, since you're hesitant about the number of decisions enough, I'll vote with the device.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0101par0061	Mr. President, that's not possible!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0098par0062	Sit down, please.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0101par0063	Mr. President, that's not how it works!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0098par0064	I'm going to vote on the device, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Here you go, sir. I'll give you three minutes. I'll start the vote.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0102par0068	Don't let anyone in. Block those who enter, and prevent those who enter. Look, they're coming in. In fact, if you'd given me half a minute, we'd have seen if you had it or not.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0103par0070	Give me five more minutes, Mr. President, we've got people coming this way! When the president said there was, were there so many men?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0104par0072	If there's a holiday, there's a holiday, there's a holiday, that's for sure.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0105par0073	Mr. President, we're celebrating the Court! We're really celebrating the court! So the Court really deserves a decision that doesn't exist because it's enough!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0106par0074	Mayor, let's keep the vote going. There's people in the house!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0107par0075	Can you read the compasses, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0105par0076	He'll probably read it.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0107par0077	Read the compasses.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0108par0079	Congressmans, there is a sufficient number of decisions, the proposal is not accepted. [Applause from the AK PARTY ranks: MHP and CHP rankings ▪Bravobooks, and applause!]
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0105par0080	Bravo, Mr. President, congratulations!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0109par0081	How many did you get?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0105par0082	I don't know what a mission was done with.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0110par0083	Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Number: 403 15.11.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus at the advisory board on Thursday 15,11,2012 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. M. Akif Hamzacebi It has been suggested by Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba and 29 MPs that the Assembly of Turkey, which was given to the President of the Grand National Assembly for the purpose of investigating the Malatian events, be read in the same session Thursday (46 rows), before other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. Now, on the Republican People's Party proposal, in favour of Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba. Mr. Agha, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0111par0096	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I share the heart of all Alevis, the Moharrem Flat Matemi. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, before I begin speaking, I would like to point out that yesterday in Gaza, I condemn the Israeli government, which repeated its years of attacks on the innocent people. I also strongly condemn Malatya, and the mentality that points to the people of the region, by building a missile shield in the Globekic, to protect Israel. Dear friends, on October 20th, the Commission for Investigation on Impacts and Currencys, established under the roof of our House, listened to a man who couldn't remember, heard or knew anything. A signed document has been placed before him that he committed the crime of hatred and humanity. I'm talking about Malatya's former governor of Malatya, who prided himself on being the butcher of Alevi Kızılbaş, who declared himself the largest Alevi Kızılbaş enemy since Yavuz Sultan Selim. The former Chief of Police, Küçükcıyaki, is a revelation of the dark fascist mind of September 12th. This letter is also important to reveal that all the massacres in this country are state organizations supported by imperialist focals. It is known that the main purpose of the Maraş massacre, the Çorum massacre, the Sivas massacre, and the Malatya massacre was to take the country to the next level. Dear friends, this letter in the press can be argued whether it is true or not, but the Alevis and every sensitive citizen in this country believe that all the events in the letter are true, knowing that they are being orchestrated by dark forces who stage the coup. Those who wanted to lead the country into a fascist coup have conducted a special study of some cities, including Malatya, during September 12th. When we look at cities before September 12th, where there were major massacres, we see that they were all multicultural cities where our brothers Alevi and Sunni lived together. As a matter of fact, the events of February 75 and 78 Hamido in Malatya were at the stage of this great plot. On the occasion of this letter, which appeared 32 years later, I would like to briefly remind you of what happened in Malatya before 1980. Over 100 political murders were committed in Malatya until 1980, after Refet Küğiryaki became governor in 1976. Many innocent people have been subjected to oppression and torture. The first link of these political killings was in 1976 -- still fresh in the memory of the Malatians -- when three revolutionary teenagers were shot by helicopter and executed without a trial. During this period, political killings and incidents continued in Malatya, while Malatya Mayor Hamit Fendoğlu was assassinated by 1978. The darkest part of September 12th is the Hamido incident. You can't solve the September 12th coup without solving the Hamido cases, you won't find the dark forces behind it. Along with the late Hamid Fendoglu, his daughter-in-law and two grandchildren were brutally murdered by the explosion of the bombshell package sent to their homes. Immediately after this incident, three high school students who had not yet reached the age of 20 were kidnapped, tortured and shot to death, their bodies were torn to pieces by being thrown onto the railway tracks at Gentleman's Creek. The crowds that were provoked by these events were put on the street. No one was tried in the Malatian cases, no perpetrators were found, only one person was arrested for stealing hunting material. He was released in the first hearing. Hamid Fendoglu and his family's killers are still unaccounted for. Dear MPs, first of all, the bombing and subsequent events of the murder of the late Hamid Fendoglu have lost a great deal to our Malatya. The main goal of the triggerers is to restore Malatya's economic, political, and cultural structure. They've succeeded in that, too. Important businessmen and intellectuals migrated from Malatya. Hundreds of homes and businesses were destroyed as a result of these events. The city was intended to be driven into a civil war, but the revolutionaries in Malatya, the democrats, the Alevis, and all the discreet citizens with the Sunni, prevented Malatya, from becoming Maraş at that time. Dear friends, as this document emerges and the country's dark history is being investigated, many documents such as this will function as a roundabout in terms of understanding the real intentions of the AKP government, since it is said to have been dealt with by coups, it is of utmost importance to go seriously on such events. With confidential witnesses, anonymous tip letters, it is possible to say that in a period of years when people were imprisoned without indictments, they had too much right to investigate and judge the events that had occurred in the archive of Canaan's Universe. A former minister, the AKP Vice-President, described the allegations in this letter as insanity and tried to cover it up, but what should be done is to investigate this document and the veracity of the allegations, which, on the contrary, no one would have any doubt in their minds. We need to know that it doesn't solve problems when we hold on to the documents that come our way and describe the ones that don't come our way as insanity; rather, it brings out new problems. I don't waste my own man by closing my eyes on the truth. Shall we feed the mindset, whether we don't? Or the mindset that shoots bullets for this country, and the mindsets that eat it are very similar. This mindset is nothing more than raising new killers and new villains. If we really don't want to fight coups and coups and bring those black days back to our country, we have to face our recent past, including the Sivas massacre, the Maras massacre, and the Malatian events. When judging the coupters, government officials and bureaucrats who shed blood and helped the coupgers to take over must be judged at first, or else the trials that already exist in society are being tried to justify their thinking. That way you can't finish the blows or stand in the way of the massacres. Dear friends, it's not like you can't even bring a ninety-two-year-old coup leader to court to face a blow. Not with the coups and the deep government, not with the innocence and laundering of the beautiful blonde, the closest witness to the unsolveds, the village evacuations. Not to mention the fact that it's a coup, it's not to entertain the former police chief and politician in VIP prisons. It's not like a coup is about writing the book of the secrets of the deep state, exposing the darkness, putting Soner Yalçın and his friends in prison. There's no way in hell we're going to get the governor, the governor, the chief of police, and the bureaucrats of September 12th. There's no way in hell you're going to end up in prison crying out to the boys who were executed on September 12th. Those who reckon with the blow will not be able to say, "I have instructed the judge. " Those who deal with the coup do not say, "Good luck to our country, to our nation, for the decision of the shameful Sivas case. " To deal with a blow is to find and bring to justice the perpetrators of hundreds of people who were slain in Marash, and in Çorum, and in Malatiah. In short, the only way to prevent these and such events is not to side with the cruel, but to truly side with the oppressed. A country where no faith, no individual can be replaced, no massacres, should be a common goal for all of us. Dear friends, in the official archives of the state, the Republican prosecutors must take action on this official document read by the chairman of the Parliamentary Commission for Investigation of Impacts. We, as a group of Republican People's Party MPs, would like you to know that we will press charges against this issue. What is written in this letter is a crime of humanity and hate. There is no statute of limitations on crimes against humanity in universal law norms. Prosecutors must act on this, and if not, the legal routes in Turkey are exhausted, and we intend to move the issue to the ECHR. I believe you will support this motion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0112par0110	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Against the proposal, Mr. Idris Şahin, the Chandırı MP. Mr. Hawk, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0113par0115	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party Group's request to investigate the Parliament for the murder of Hamit Fendoğlu and for all aspects of Malatya's events that began after which they had been dealt with in all aspects in order to uncover their motives. I salute your high council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, I'd like to start by simply telling you how this has happened, how it has evolved. Hamit Fendoğlu became a senator from Malatya in 1965, but was an independent candidate in the local elections before 80 years, who was elected mayor of Malatya, supported by representatives of all the nationalist Front governments who had once been in power together in Malatya. The date was 17/4/1978. In April 1978, he died in three months, and on a day when he was fasting, because of this foul attack. I'd like to say that I remember him one more time with mercy. However, when we look at the way the incident took place, it was revealed that the explosive material that was sent to him was delivered to the post office from here on 8/4/78, from Ankara, from the Emek Post Office. He was unable to open the mail at the city hall because of his arrival in Ankara, and on a day of his own intent, this incident occurred when he opened this package that he had taken home to his home because of the fact that he had a name on a senator friend of his whom they had been especially gifted with. Now, it is not mentioned here, especially in CHP's group proposal, but as of that time, Malatya, former Commissioner of Security of the Republican People's Party in charge of Malatya, who was temporarily sent to Marash Governorship, as of six months after CHP came to power, when it was confirmed that it had been sent to Ankara and was sent to Ankara, again, by one of the former mayors of the district, who had been appointed as deputy director of a branch at Security Directorate. When we look at the properties of the bombs, where they were sent and where they were sent, you can see that they all come from the same point, and you can see very clearly how we were in an environment prior to the 80 events, especially when it was preferred by Malatya. Of course, the Precious Orator here, in particular, has made some statements here concerning a commission I'm a member of. So, the Parliamentary Commission for Research on Parliamentary Impacts, which has come up with the common will and product of parliament, as much as the EC PARTI ruling behind it, we know that the Republican People's Party has as much support as the Nationalist Movement Party and the Peace and Democracy Party. Because the fight against coups is too important to be the subject of a political party, just as it is in the fight against terrorism. Because this incident is a common wound to all of us, and the only reason we're here today is because democracy works well and it lasts steadily. When democracy is suspended, the biggest damage is 75 million citizens and Turkish nationals. I'd like to rephrase that from this platform and mention some of the things that the Precious Hati would refer to here. Especially from the moment the incident took place, we had a period when the people around Malatya center and around them were agitated and mutually, as if, at the time of their right and left conflict, our citizens would be crushed to one another. Then, at the time of the investigation, we see that four people died, close to 79 people were injured, and the investigation into these cases was transferred to Elazığ because they were in the martial law court at the time, and, as he mentioned, these files were removed from the process for a long time, as the perpetrator mentioned. But what's interesting is that the day it happened, four of our citizens died. Three of them are Veterans High School students. With a determination made just six months later, it is found that TİKKO members are responsible for the actions that would have led to the deaths of these children. Here, it seems, wherever there is turmoil, wherever there is trouble, we are living in an environment where the brother is slaughtered, but the fact that Malatya was chosen there in particular should not be considered a random identification and location. Because, as we look at it, here are the results from the investigations of the Commission for Investigations of the Impacts, and we see that Malatya is not only one of the provinces that was attempted to be stirred up after February 28th, but also before 80. A number of demonstrations, especially at the point of the headscarf, have been made into an area where 200 journalists can meet in front of the University of Inönu in one day, where many people can act provocatively from right to left. The important thing is that we have to fight each other by putting our hearts together about coups and any attempt to suspend democracy. Of course, it's the duty of every political party to take a democratic stand to uncover hidden events in the dark of history. We should not only consider it a case of Malatia, Marash, or Stocks, but we should all go together on all kinds of legal violations that exist in this country and on all kinds of actions that are concretely outlawed by law. Therefore, we do not desire for anyone in this country to live the events of Hamid Fendoglu in Malatya. However, it is important to know that for a long time in the local government, the Republican People's Party served in Malatya, but for the first time after the merger of three parties in the local elections prior to the incident in 1978, an independent mayor took office in Malatya. Those who want to end the social peace and brotherhood climate that have been established here wanted to make the same move, not only to Hamit Fendoglu, but also to Abdulkadir Aksu Bey, a valued elder who is now a member of our parliament. It was discovered today that they were from the only center. So, this is all happening in the democratic climate, which is created by the AK PARTY. If we can go over the blows with all our courage today, if we can teach those who tried to pull us in line yesterday a lesson in democracy and show them what kind of steps can be taken at the point that there are no more coups in this country, this is a resolution the Parliament has made together. Here, we are obliged to stand behind this will in every way, and in order for democracy to be fully developed in the next process, I would like to express in particular that we need national unity and agreement to make rights and freedoms a ceiling in this country. Therefore, I certainly agree with some of the issues that our dear friend, our disciple, has declared here. But I'd like to say that I didn't really perceive the letter written by the chief of police at that time as a substitute. Because there's no signature on it, and there's no answer to who it's written to. So this is a very important institution, such as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, if you have faith in the point where we can make these things into an investigation, it is a conclusion that you have come up with as a result of incomplete scrutiny and research. Please, let's take a good look at the contents of that letter and draw a road map according to it.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0114par0127	We looked, and it's the Blessing Head that brought this up.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0113par0128	So, what you're bringing up is that you're referring to the motion of investigation, and I wish you and I had not had this letter of basis, but that we could all have lifted this veil of fog that was covered over the Malatya people at Malatya. This feeling and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute all of you by expressing in your opinion that we are against your motion.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0115par0132	Mr. Hawk, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0116par0133	Let's see how you lift it! Blessings to the Chief.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0117par0134	It's Blessing Head who brings it up!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0116par0135	Blessing is asking him!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0118par0136	You have no basis. There's no such document.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0116par0137	Did he not ask if there was such a thing?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0118par0138	It's signed under...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0116par0139	Did Nimet ask the head or not?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0119par0140	Now, in favor of the motion, the third speaker is Ibrahim Binici, Şanlıurfa MP. Please, come in. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0120par0143	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the Republican People's Party's motion to salute our House. Dear friends, it's been sixty-five days today, and the consciences are still silent. Maybe we're all on a hunger strike with our elected people and their families. But for some reason, we've never had an explanation from the AKP government, from the Prime Minister or the Minister of Justice, that could really, truly, feel good, stop killings, ease our consciences. I hope and wish... to put our hands on our conscience, 64 people have been on their deathbed for sixty-five days. After that, 713 people continue behind it. Following that, the prisoner, who can be expressed in Turkish prisons with tens of thousands, has again invested their bodies in a hunger strike. You know, we have a guilty conscience, we have a bad conscience. Mr. Co-Chairs of the BDP Group, DTK Co-Chairs, 10 of our MPs have put their bodies on hunger strike again in Diyarbakir. Mr. Leyla Zana is on hunger strike in her room today, in the same way, to address the consciences. We just want humanity. We just want to address the consciences so that the consciences don't get dull. On your 65th day, how can we go to our house and eat every night when people have put their bodies to death? I'd like to address the consciences of the people in every corner of Turkey from Edirne to Kars. Enough, I say, we don't want to see death. If tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, our people come out of those prisons in coffins, will you be able to answer that? Will you be able to accept that in your conscience? I'm sure no one of our people would agree to that. For him, I speak again to the sensitive public, to the consciences. Dear friends, on November 12th, I went to our town of Ceylanpınar. In our district of Ceylanpınar, I really want to address the public in Turkey: officers have left the area with reports. The ministries in the government's wing would find that very convenient. The shopkeepers have closed their shops, at home. Those who are in good time, who are in good economic condition have left the city, but, for some reason, Turkey remains silent. As they say, the wolf likes the misty air. It's open to all sorts of unsolved murders. When we get to the border line, there's no telling who's going or who's coming. The so-called free Syrian Army must be going from there to there. The people who live in the neighboring district come in the morning and return to Ceylanpınar, in the evening. Why is this irresponsible? We're asking: what will you do if the unsolved murders develop the day after tomorrow? I speak to the consciences of Ceylanpınar, who has been imprisoned in his house for seven days, who cannot go out, nor walk in the marketplace. In one day, we watched three boiler bombs in one day with our own, clear eyes. At zero kilometers of the border, a Syrian settlement, where our people -- the majority of them Kurdish -- are being bombed. A little boy came in, he had blood on him. He came across the border. He was only seven years old. We asked: "What happened? " The plane killed my mother, my father, and my brother. There was still wet blood on it. To say -- stop -- again, under current circumstances, the AKP has caused the error of its foreign policy. You know, we were a zero-problem country with neighbors! Zero, where's the problem? We became enemies with Syria. We became enemies with Iraq. We became enemies with Iran. Greece and I became enemies. We became enemies with Bulgaria. With such foreign policy, this country cannot be ruled. I'd like to address the consciences again. As soon as I see the situation at Ceylanpınar... because I've seen that terrible situation, really, even now, my bones are aching. Those people who close the door and can't go from morning to evening buying bread are having a real drama. This is the problem with AKP's foreign policy. Dear friends, we have to face unsolved murders, our past. We, as a group, have proposed this, but unfortunately, I've been in Parliament for six years, and for six years, our only proposal has been ignored, thanks to the majority of the current AKP. There's a Kurdish problem in this country. The Kurdish problem has its identity, its language. You can't deny the Kurdish problem. You've been in denial for 30 years, where are you going? You will accept the Kurdish problem. So we're on the basis of the Democratic Autonomous Project, which is based on free, equal living, which is based on the Democratic Autonomous Project. We exist on our principles. In fact, I respect the consideration of our proposals for the sisterhood of the people of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0121par0153	Mr. Rider, thank you. Now, Mr. Oya Eronat, the Diyarbakır MP against you. Mr. Eronat, please.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0122par0157	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the CHP's motion for parliamentary investigation. I salute you all, your high council. I was a young girl who went to high school before the 1980s revolution. In those years, I've spent listening to so-called right-hand conflicts, listening to the news that so-called right-hand people have died, five from the right. I got into college in 1980. I spent years listening to the atrocities of the coup. The years followed by listening to the unsolved murders and the massacres of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and, unfortunately, have passed in recent years, watching the massacres of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) so far. We've been through this, we've been through this. Then I think, why are we killing each other? We kill each other to serve the good and the good. Sir, we are protecting the rights of the Kurdish people. I'm sorry, are there Kurdish people in Diyarbakır who are protecting their rights? I'm from Diyarbakir. If you are from Diyarbakir, you have no right to be Kurdish. They once called you Turkish by force, and now you're not allowed to become Kurds. If you are Kurds, you must become PKK members. It's called democracy. Either you're from the PKK or you'll support his extension party or you have no right to live. If you are in Diyarbakır, if you live in Diyarbakır, if you are a Turkish person or a different ethnist, for example, you can live in a much more comfortable place if you are, but if you are Kurdish, then there is trouble, and they don't give you that right. At the moment, Diyarbakır is taking action in the evenings, looking for ways to tag people. The lights will be turned on and extinguished. It says, "The houses that are not burned are being tagged." You know those ACK prisoners who look innocent, you know, they're being dragged around the streets by those young people who have an extension of that ACK. They're trying to tag people. We are protecting the rights of the Kurds now. I will tell you about the recent persecutions of the Kurds. On October 30th, protests were carried out in Diyarbakır, shops closed, shop closed. When I criticize here, you turn to me and say what? One hundred percent fit in. It was said. Even in Saddam's Baas regime, when people went to the polls, there were 99 per cent of them, even Saddam was ashamed, and he had one percent of them thrown away. If 100 percent of people agree, can you talk about democracy in that city? How do the people of that city agree? That's what I'm asking. I'm saying they should be ashamed. (EA/DG) The municipal buses were not run on October 30th. People couldn't take patients to hospitals, escorts couldn't go to hospitals, condolences couldn't go to funerals. We're talking about democracy. Sir, the chosen ones are inside. It's called. Well, let me tell you something, fellas. At the moment, a mayor of the city and one mayor are being appointed by the PKK and sitting in his room. Where's the democracy? What about the rights of the chosen? So, how do you accept this woman appointed mayor? Is that your idea of democracy? Again, a city mayor was questioned in his room in 2009, questioned by a cleaning worker next to him. The Chosen Ones have rights, we must run democracy for the Chosen Ones. Sir, we're not Democrats. You don't accept the elected man, you appoint the elected man, and then you talk about democracy! I'm calling it "peses." They're talking about hunger strikes. I've been here for two months, every day, listening to people serfing about hunger strikes on the stand. We don't want anyone to die, we don't want everyone to die. We can't possibly accept any death, but do you ever wonder who's encouraging these hunger strikes? Close to the PKK and its extension, the writers close to the party write the other day: "Sir, Kandil has signaled the end of the strikes." They were on strike of their own volition! Just three days ago, an MP who attacked police in Diyarbakır has been on hunger strike for five days, dripping blood on his cheek. If I go on a diet for two days, my blood pressure goes down, I get dizzy. What kind of hunger strike is this? I'll tell you a little bit about their hunger strike. I'm not saying anything to the inmates inside, they're being persecuted right now. They're already in trouble because they're under arrest, and you're either going to die, or you're going to die. I'll tell you about the deputies outside. Prior to that, tents were set up in KosuyoI Park in Diyarbakır, and hunger strike ceremonies were held. Now, a couple of deputies are inside, like a fairground, 20 teas a day; three sugars, 60 sugars, 25 calories, and they're already taking their daily calories. Now, I'm having trouble understanding how there's a hunger strike with so much blood on it, and I'm having a laugh. I know the persecution of the prisoners inside. You're cruel to them. If you really want the hunger strike to end, you put your hands under the table. There's a bench here, we're talking about problems, we're arguing on commissions, no one needs to die. But I believe in my personal opinion that you would be very happy if there was a funeral inside. I believe that, too. Now, friends, I've always talked about menfaat. Last year, a book was published in Germany, a book in English called The Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). He was talking about how the PKK managed drugs like the Sicilian mafia. For example, in regular drugs, he becomes a baron once in a while, he becomes a salesman, but that's not how the PKK works; he runs the drugs from the field to the street vendor in Europe. He worked like a Sicilian mafia. It's an academic book, and it sells bestsellers in academic circles. There's a phrase in this book that says that the annual income of the PKK (PKK) is from the old money -- between 2 quadrillion and 8 quadrillion. This has been proven, in June and July, operations were conducted in the village of Lice in Diyarbakır, and 1.8 quadrillion-year-old root plants were destroyed. That's how this book proved its point. We're always talking about infant mortality. Here you are, the children are persecuted, the Kurds are persecuted. You are the ones who did the real persecution of the Kurds. A week ago, Faris was killed in Şemdinli with a PKK bomb. Maybe it was just a chance for other people to die, but did they calculate how many people could die in this bomb? It was a very high-profile bomb. Now, there's a feature. In 2006, a bomb was detonated in Kosuyolu, Diyarbakır, where 10 people lost their lives. Then, they went, they planted a Life Memorial there, and in March 2009, Burhan Sun's killer was caught and PKK's people came out. Now, every year they go, they hold a memorial day in front of that Memorial of Life, two fingers in the air. There is a saying in our southeastern province that he hunts the lamb with the wolf, and then he sits with the sheep and weeps. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, there's a lot to say. I thank you for listening to me patiently, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0123par0173	Thank you, Mr. Eronat. Two of our friends are in the system. Mr. Nuts, here you are, sir, from your seat.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0124par0178	Sir, first of all, I'd like to discuss the motion on the late Hamid Fendoglu -- another name for Hamido. Because at that time, we were a teenager in politics. As the youth of the National Movement Party in Malatya, the Justice Party and the National Peace Party, we made the late Hamit Fendoglu an independent candidate, convinced our elders, and for the first time, we took Malatya City out of the hands of the Republican People's Party. He was the common master of all the right sides of society and the common sense of the people, we did that. My hand is a victim of an unknown crime. In three months, when he was fasting, his grandson and his daughter-in-law and I lost him in a terrible assassination at the iftar table. May God have mercy on us. It's chaos because he's so popular. On the first day -- the very first day, when I returned to Malatya, when I was in college -- there was not a policeman or a soldier in the streets of Malatya, until the end of the second day. So it was clear that it was a provocation. On the same day, we learned that Abdülkadir Aksu Adıyaman, right next door, the same package goes to him. In those days, it is the same package to a mayor of the Republican People's Party and Alevi. When a coincidence opens, two of our citizens are martyrs there. It appears that -- very clearly and clearly -- particularly in Central Anatolia, the provinces of Malatya, Sivas, Çorum, and Kahramanmarash are the most played by the Alevi and Sunni conflict. So the events in this area, before 80...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0125par0184	Mr. Nuts, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0124par0185	I need to tie this up, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0125par0186	Please, just put it in a sentence.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0124par0187	Okay. So, this is what we need to be very careful about in our provinces: I believe we need to talk very carefully when we talk about the Alevi-Sunni issue. I invite all our friends to speak with such care. Both the Aleki intellectual men and the Sunni mental men in our region, we've been able to make this union and this bonding. From here, I thank them, too. Again, I ask for God's mercy on our martyrs. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0126par0192	Thank you. Mr. Young, you've entered the system.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0127par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, the chairman of the Commission for Investigation of Impacts, Nimet, has announced a master document. Here, it says the chief of police: I've kicked the crap out of 40,000 Flames. Now, I want to know from the government if this document is real or not. Why did Nimet Chief explain this without the original investigation? This is aimed at a target. Seriously, I mean, it's serious, guys. A document is taken from the documents of the Kenan universe, and it is made public. So if this document does not exist, then the powers that explain this document have a purpose, which is to provoke Alevi and Sunni citizens in Turkey, to strike each other. I agree with my friend's opinion. We all have to live like brothers in this country. We don't have to go to the imperial forces' games. But why, out of the blue, did the head explain this document? If he did, is this document true or not? Let him explain to any Alevi, wherever, whatever it is that's been processed. The government can't block their ears. This friend, if there is no such document, if he did, is guilty of a great crime and has explained this document in order to serve someone with a purpose. If the truth of this document is true, sir, I'd like to request an investigation into their involvement, and I'd like the government to remain silent, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0128par0198	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0129par0199	I want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0128par0200	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0130par0203	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, a person who has just been appointed by the Supreme Election Board has taken the stand and made false allegations about our party. We've never heard of him as a party, and we're never gonna get him after that. The people of Diyarbakir don't care about themselves either. His claims here are all lies, and they're full of ignorance, false JITEM and police intelligence.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0131par0205	You're the lie!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0130par0206	I wish the Supreme Election Board had appointed someone from JITEM, or from the Police Department, and our people would have actually listened to them from the owner of those claims. Those who are unable to appear among the people of Diyarbakir today cannot be presented here to represent the people of Diyarbakir. This is a disgrace to the House. Mr. Hatip Dicle has been elected MP with the highest vote in Diyarbakır, and is currently representing the struggle of his people in Diyarbakır D-type prison; he is still carrying out his political work against his people and history. We think the House should be free of this disgrace again. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0132par0209	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0133par0210	Mr. President, there's bullying, I want your word.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0132par0211	Mr. Oya Eronat, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0134par0213	Mr. President, we wanted a word.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0132par0214	I will.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0135par0216	Now, we have a story. A man walks into a cup of coffee, makes a cry every day asking if he's looking at me sideways. One, two, three... in the end, someone throws the jacket off your shoulder like this. Look at me, didn't I beat you at the bottom of the wall the other day? He says, "It's an o." And you took a beating from me under the Ten-Eyed Bridge. Is that what you want? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You're talking about Hatip Dicle. It was you who brought the Hatip Dicle either by deceit or by deceit. But what I do know is that both of you, both as parties and as Hatip Dicle, all of you have deceived the people together, and you have caused 77,000 games to go to waste.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0136par0219	Look how he confesses!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0137par0220	You confessed! It's not in the trash, it's in you. You were in the dumpster then!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0138par0221	You're a mazbata thief! You're a thief, a thief!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0139par0222	You knew damn well that the preacher Dicle would not be elected. Don't waste your time. You know why you hate me so much?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0138par0223	Because you're a thief, that's why we hate you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0139par0224	I remind you of the children the PKK killed. That's why you hate me so much. Thank you. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0138par0227	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0140par0228	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0141par0229	One second, sir, one second. Please sit down. We have friends in the system, and we can't give them to anyone who raises their hand. There are people in the system before you. Mr. Sakık, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0142par0234	Mr. President, thank you. Actually, I wasn't going to say anything about it, but he deserves it. For God's sake, if you hadn't come on assignment, you'd be gossiping in the neighborhood. You don't have any other qualifications. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Let go.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0143par0239	Go, go, go!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0142par0240	Now, I don't talk to you too much, but I care about something.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0144par0241	Who's taking care of you?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0142par0242	Mr. President, Malatya MP Mujahit Bey has just said important things, which is that this country must face, from Corrum to Sivas, from the events of Gazi, which began in Malatya. We can't build democracy in this country without facing these events. This parliamentary inquiry motion by the Republican People's Party today is important, so as Mujahit Bey has just pointed out, if we can investigate, we can conclude. In that case, I invite you all on duty. Let's agree to a motion to investigate together, face our past, which means that Turkey's belly is full of Hamasi lectures, waved around in the streets, I don't know. I'm inviting you on duty, Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0145par0244	Mr. Sakık, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0146par0245	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0145par0246	Mr. Çurk, one second, sir, enter the system. Enter the system first, please.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0147par0247	Mr. President, Mr. Hatip Dicle is Diyarbakır's legal, legitimate MP. He's been insulted, even though he's not here, and he said we've been deceiving the public. As Diyarbakır MP, I'd like word on behalf of myself and Hatip Dicle.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0145par0249	Sit down, I'll give it to you when it's your turn.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0147par0250	Okay.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0145par0251	Dear Drift...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0148par0253	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. President, we've just been told about our democratic martyr, Mr. Hamit Fendoglu, and I have taken this opportunity to make a commitment. Once again, I wish God's mercy to Hamit Fendoglu and his children, his grandchildren, and once again our Malatya and our Turkey. Just after Hamid Fendoğlu was killed, I was just starting middle school -- the age I was living -- and unfortunately, I was a witness to the looting of Jazmi Kartay Street in Malatya, and it was just the abomination of the transactions that I saw at the age of that child. Hamit Fendoğlu had to be questioned about the killing and the subsequent events of Malatya. Later, the events of the 28 February period in Malatya were the best indicator of the games played in Malatya, including Friday's cases. And as the AK PARTI Power, we've done some very important things in order to face them, to account for the blows, and we've established the Commission for Research of Impacts, we've changed the Constitution, and there's no question about the account. And on this occasion, I, once again, bless and thank the martyrs of democracy. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0149par0260	Thank you, Mr. Çurk. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0150par0263	Mr. President, thank you. There has been a very important incident in Malatya, the murder of Mr. Hamit Fendoğlu. Once again, I condemn this place. Both the AKP Speaker and the AKP MPs of Malatya have expressed their opinion that these issues should be uncovered. I want to thank them. If the real forces behind September 12th are to be revealed, Hamido events must be investigated in the first place. If AKP lawmakers, Hathibi and Group are sincere about this, I think they should vote positively on it, if they say so. I think it would be very positive to have a research commission set up, to investigate these events, to have people in Malatya in the past, to be questioned about their account. Again, I call on the Council to support this vote.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0151par0266	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0152par0269	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, in the content of the article and document described in the newspapers by Refet Küçükcıyaki, it contains an unspoken, unsigned text, which cannot be expressed from whom it came from and what it meant in its contents. As our commission, such a document is not to be made public; it is one of the documents that exist to us, but its signature is unclear. But I would like to express one particular thing here. The event is very clear here, as I said on the stand, and it is clear and clear that in the circumstances of that day, there was a substance called C-4, which was made for military purposes in the investigations sent to both Hamit Fendoglu and Minister Abdulkadir Aksu Bey, and again to Sunday, and at the center of the bomb, which is now revealed to be a part of those who are at the center of the process of democratisation. Therefore, due to the fact that there are lawsuits being filed, I'd like to say that we can't go further, and I'd like to salute your public and delegation.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0153par0272	Thank you. My dear friends, this discussion is getting a little long. Five or six more of our friends have asked for word. I'm going to ask them to take their seats and please pick them up in a minute. Mr. Zeybekci...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0154par0276	Mr. President, thank you very much. In the identity of Hamid Fendoglu, I have blessed all the martyrs of democracy and all the innocent people who were slaughtered by dirty hands. It's an incident I had before the June 12th elections... and if we're here with the Constitution and election laws that we're all subject to, then all the MPs here are elected, and everyone has to respect each other. Before the June 12th elections, I got a call from two naval teachers in one of the provinces in the region. They brought them an independent MP's compass to the door, and they said tomorrow night is Saturday night. We're going to get that Supreme Election Board ballot from you, and you're going to put it in the box. They threatened to vote. If in the villages, if there were full votes in the towns, in some places, and people were voted with threats, this would be the cry of the mother of a boy who was killed here today. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I condemn him to speak out of turn.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0155par0282	Thank you, Mr. Zeybekci. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0156par0285	Thank you, Mr. President. All our democracy martyrs, including Hamid Fendoglu, I also cherish them. As an AK PARTY group, we wish to investigate all events, including the murder of Hamit Fendoglu. For the first time in this parliament, the Commission for Research of Impacts has been established in this Parliament. We believe that all the impacts and causes of this will be investigated in every detail, and that's what he's been trying to do, and that's why he's going on about it. A second issue: Of course, we've heard a lot of unjust accusations regarding Mr. Oya Eronat, the Diyarbakır MP of our EC PARTY.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0157par0289	What's not fair, Ahmet Bey? It's been the appointment of the High Election Board, what's not fair?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0158par0290	Who's chosen, who's chosen? Who has been chosen for the sake of God?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0156par0291	As a woman and as a elected MP, I think it's necessary for those who speak of the will of the people to respect the will of the nation once.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0157par0292	The elected MP is in prison.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0156par0293	The incident that could not be chosen was reported by the Supreme Election Board before the election, as well as by their lawyers and themselves.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0157par0294	Where was it reported? He's running for office! Didn't you watch the election? He's running for office.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0159par0295	When was it reported? He even bought a mazbata. You write, you write, you serve, you serve!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0156par0296	And knowingly, they said, "Lades." Even though they knew they couldn't be elected, they nominated him because he wasn't qualified to be elected.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0159par0297	You don't know he's got a mazbata!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0156par0298	After that, it's not the law we brought in, it's the Supreme Election Board, it's the previous...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0160par0300	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0161par0301	The High Election Board has accepted the nomination of Hatip Dicle. You're lying!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0162par0302	Yeah, he's running for office. There was something in the compass! Don't lie to me! It's a shame!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0160par0303	Dear Citizen...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0163par0305	Mr. President, it's satirical New Year's, the beginning of the month of battle, the soup moon.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0162par0306	Then why does the Supreme Election Board accept the name on the compass? It's a shame!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0160par0307	Yes, yes... please...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0163par0308	I wish this moon to bring blessings and blessings to the world of Islam and all mankind. Muharrem month is also a history of great suffering in the collective memory of Muslims because of the martyrdom of the grandson of Hazreti Hussein, and the political ambitions of more than 70 of many members. One of the important tasks that we have today is to learn, learn, avoid any negative attitudes or actions that might damage our unity and unity. Assure is the way different flavors live together to contribute to the common taste. Like this, our nation will continue to share joy and sorrow, conversation and adversity as a need to live together. No one can stop our people from living together under this flag. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0164par0312	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0165par0315	Mr. President, as a Malatian, I wish my blessings to the late Hamido. As a man living in those days, I condemn all the hands that seek to stir up Malatya, the planned, the programmed. But the Malatian will no longer be a tool to them. Therefore, I strongly condemn the mentality that separates language, religion, religion, and somehow, the language of language, religion, and it must be investigated by forming a research committee for it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0164par0317	Thank you. My dear friends, I think... Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0166par0320	We have a roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0164par0321	You have a roll call, over.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0167par0322	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0164par0323	Wait a second.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0168par0324	Mr. President, our MP wanted a word, our Diyarbakır MP...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0164par0325	Sir, there are six or seven other MPs with you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0169par0326	No, sir, he's not with me, I'd like to answer from the stand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0164par0327	Hold on, hold on. There are lines here.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0169par0328	Our Diyarbakır MP has been insulted by my party and person.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0164par0329	Sir, just a second... the lines are right here, over.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0170par0330	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0171par0331	You let out the YSK officer, he said we were deceiving the people of Diyarbakir.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0164par0332	Now, alone, Mr. President, I'm thinking that one of you, whoever's talking, should be finished.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0171par0333	Our friend will answer.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0164par0334	Here you go, Mr. Tan, over.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0172par0335	Mr. President, we asked for word. How many people have you promised?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0164par0336	Are you in the system, ma'am?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0173par0339	Mr. President, I bless the martyrs of Kerbala, I curse Yazid, and I curse those who are in Yazid's mind. I ask forgiveness for the late Hamido and his grandchildren from God. I was also present at the funeral of the late Hamido, and saw with my own eyes all the things that happened in Malatiah that day, and thirty-four years ago, I performed the prayer with the multitude, and buried with the ground. I believe it is a state operation where citizens of Alevi are deliberately driven from the middle parts of Turkey and from the region to the coasts and coasts. I don't understand why you voted no. After we put the dot here, let's get to the matter of Mr. Hatip Dicle. Mr. Hatip Dicle is a civil engineer who graduated from İstanbul Technical University, a brilliant human being. He has fought for democracy his whole life, served ten years in prison, and finally four years in prison, and in the last election, on a united ballot, including election day, his name, 78,000 votes, my friends, 78,000 votes!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0174par0342	It's a trick, it's a trick!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0173par0343	Mr. President... More than you. After that, the Diyarbakır City Election Board gave up its MPship, while the parliament was in his hands, and the parliamentary power of parliament was cancelled by the games in Ankara's ruins. I mean, before you know it, just know what it is. Mr. Group Vice President says: "It has been cancelled before the election." 78,000 votes have been given to him...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0175par0347	It was reported before the election, and it was reported to his lawyer.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0173par0348	...and after that, after the legislature was cancelled, another person was taken care of.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0175par0349	It was reported that he was not qualified to be elected.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0173par0350	You find money on the floor, you ask who owns it. You're thieves, thieves, thieves!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0176par0352	Come on!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0177par0353	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0178par0354	Shut the fuck up!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0179par0355	Please, gentlemen...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0180par0356	Yavuz the thief will crush the landlord! Give me 78,000 votes!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0178par0357	Don't be an asshole!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0180par0358	All rise, all of you! All rise!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0181par0360	Gentlemen, please, please...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0180par0361	At least be respectful and shut up! You stole it, sit on it!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0181par0362	Please sit down, Mr. Tan, please.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0182par0363	If they have a word, they'll say it, but they can't insult it like that.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0181par0364	Please sit down, sit down.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0183par0365	Get up, explain, answer, how did you cancel the storm?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0184par0366	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0181par0367	Mr. Havutça, please...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0185par0368	Mr. President, for once, no one is a thief. The Supreme Election Board has previously been elected that Mr. Hajip Dicle will not be elected...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0186par0369	When, when? Lies!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0187par0370	He's got his masbata!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0188par0371	Okay, he's on the books. Please...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0189par0372	He's already been notified that he can't be elected.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0190par0373	Lies, lies!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0191par0374	He's the MP who took his masbahta.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0190par0375	He's got a masbata, masbata! He's got a car in his hand!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0192par0376	Mr. Tan, please.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0193par0377	Why is his name on the ballot? Shame on you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0192par0378	Dear friends, friends, please...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0193par0379	That'll go down in history.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0194par0380	He's lying, but it's a shame!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0192par0381	Gentlemen, please, please...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0195par0382	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0192par0383	Just a second, sir. Seven more of your friends asked for word. Let's get this over with in a minute.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0196par0385	Are you going to give it to anyone who's been in the system all the time? Let's go in, then.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0192par0386	One moment, sir. One moment, please. Mr. Heartfelt...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0197par0390	Yes, Mr. President, I'm here four days a week as the AK PARTI Diyarbakır MP. We've traveled 25,000 kilometers across Diyarbakır, we've traveled every day, and we're not afraid of anyone. When someone goes to Diyarbakir, they send everyone they've shot at. When someone goes to Diyarbakir, they give our children a Molotov, they give them a spray, a gas bomb, in a way, but when we leave, we bring them peace, prosperity, peace, happiness.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0198par0391	And you're a dam MP, Mr. Friday, and you're there because of the 10% dam.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0197par0392	While the candle's being bombed while someone's having fun with their girlfriends in Ramadan...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0198par0393	And you're there because of the 10% dam. It's not like you're any different.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0199par0394	Please...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0197par0395	...we were in the streets of Diyarbakir with our people. Nobody's sorry.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0199par0397	Thank you. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0200par0399	Your position isn't so different, you're a dam MP!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0201par0400	You came from the dam, from the dam! You're a dam MP!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0199par0401	Please... Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0202par0403	You're here because there's a 10% threshold, or you wouldn't be here, you know that! It's the same with you!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0199par0404	Mr. Baluken, please, please...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0203par0405	I travel all the villages. Can you go to Bingol?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0204par0406	Yes, every day in Bingol. I am in Bingol, and I am in Bingol, every day.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0205par0407	We're here every day. Come, come on November 17th to Diyarbakir, let's see.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0203par0408	Don't be a bully!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0206par0409	Please, gentlemen, please... this is our friend speaking. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0207par0412	Mr. President, thank you very much. The letter stated by Mr. Veli Ağbaba was sent to the coup commission among the documents from the presidency. After we saw the document, we had to ask him about a document like this, naturally. Under it was the name of Refet Little Dirkyaki. In that frame, Mrs. Nimet asked herself. However, under this document, there is no signature of Refet Minoriyaki, nor is it obvious to whom it is written, nor does it appear to us as a consistent, logical text when you read the text. It is also possible to write a text and write another person's name, my name, and the name of Veli Bey. You'll get a document the same way. He had to ask that in his nature; that's one. Second: I understand the motion to investigate Mr. Hamit Fendoglu, but regarding the past...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0208par0416	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0209par0419	Thank you, Mr. President. A document is coming out of the archive of the Kenan Universe. The President of the Commission, Nimet Baş, elected by the AKP Group's proposal, takes this seriously and asks. Then, an MP in a province that is directly affected by the issue says that a research commission should be established. The establishment of the previous research commission is just as legitimate as it was legitimate. Then, another MP comes along and says: "We cannot take the anonymous, anonymous letter seriously today. " Can such an approach be taken? And as he continues his remarks, the AKP Group will return if there is such a thing as intimacy and such a thing, and if there is such a thing, it will not escape the establishment of this research commission. He says, "Let's all look together, friends." Now, we'll see.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0210par0421	The Commission is looking into it.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0211par0422	Mr. Special, thank you. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0210par0424	The Commission is looking into it.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0212par0425	What are you investigating?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0213par0426	And if we don't investigate him, how are you going to see the document?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0214par0427	We say, let's go to this document.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0215par0428	Please, please... please take a private seat.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0216par0429	Take care of the document. You're explaining the document, its nature...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0217par0430	It's also unclear as to why the document was disclosed.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0215par0431	Here you go, Mr. Havutça, from your...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0218par0433	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask your government that the headquarters of Balıkesir, Bandirma, Erdek, Manyas, Susurlik, Marmara, Sarıköy, Edinci and Aksakal are still unable to support agricultural products 2010 and 2011. Now, these farmers who use Turkey's most expensive diesel, its most expensive fertilizer, its most expensive medicine, are already in trouble, in straits, and selling their fields. Now, how is he going to plant his product when he can't get his support in 2010, in 2011? Can't your government hear or see? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0219par0437	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0220par0440	Mr. President, thank you. I'll speak on my feet, but let Mr. Zeybek hear me out and see me. Now, they've talked about threats and blackmail. I'm telling you something: ask your two deputies, the Mush MPs, especially Faruk Illum. Has a single human being been threatened in the musk area? On the morning of the election, we went to our own constituency. Go ahead, we don't have a single request for a vote from here, you can support our friends with an open vote. If they don't confirm that, I'll resign as deputy. There's no threat, there's the power of the people, there's the threat of the government, there's the threat of the rangers, there's the CSUDESS, there's BELDESS, there's the police, there's the soldier.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0221par0443	The secret is, isn't there a PKK?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0220par0444	No one has ever been a threat to our constituency. As a witness, I'm showing your deputies. If there's anything...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0222par0446	If there was a threat, you'd see it.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0223par0447	If he threatens you, you can't come, don't worry.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0224par0448	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0225par0451	Mr. President, keep quiet and I'll begin my speech.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0224par0452	Here you go, sir. Everyone's talking, and you can talk.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0225par0453	Mr. President, I'm critical of your earlier attitude. Because I don't understand how you give, how you start, how you end the conversation. Today is the first day of the month of battle. Citizens of the faith of Alevi Bektashi and Muslims who felt the persecution of our people began fasting today. I wish to Allah that their fast be accepted. For political ambition and power, the mentality that slays their Muslim brothers, our Prophet's people without hesitation is cruel to those who do not feel the same way today. The dignity of Ali the Lord, who obeys the oppressor, if he obeys the oppressor, not only will he be denied his rights...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0224par0456	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Poyraz...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0226par0458	Mr. President, we're out of seven.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0224par0459	I'll finish it.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0227par0461	My esteemed President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I, too, bless our former mayor of Malatya. As our friend, who just defended his right to be elected, as far as Faris Demircan, who lost his life at the age of eleven in the past few weeks, and who died at the age of seventeen, also defended the right to live, put a bomb and cursed the killers who killed them, I think he would have done a more consistent job. I find it a contradiction that those who come out here and can't curse terror on the platforms, those who don't accept people's right to live as their sacred right to live, and those who don't defend it, are just stuck in the right to be elected. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0228par0464	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0229par0465	Mr. President, this is Hatip saying that our party about the boy who died in Şemdinli has been indifferent. That claim is a complete lie. So far, soldiers, police, guerrillas, civilians, all lives are subject to the principled stance of the Peace and Democracy Party, which has repeatedly expressed that there should be no distinction between deaths. In Şemdinli, Hakkari, İstanbul, wherever it is, in any violence, the pain of every citizen who has lost his life in any conflict is the suffering of BDP. The owners are the ones who continue this conflicting process. I wish Mr. Orator had answered Roboski first.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0228par0466	Thank you. My dear friends, I apologize to the others who entered the system.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0230par0468	Mr. President, this is crazy! What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0228par0469	Now, you're right. All right, sir, all right. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0230par0470	What if that happens? You don't make promises when we want to, everybody's talking to each other. Let's go all night then!
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0231par0471	On the one hand, they're in Oslo, they're bringing in the law, on the other hand, so if you love God...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0230par0472	So when are we going to see the law, Mr. President? Give me seven, ten... everyone in the system then.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0231par0473	No defenses, no defenses, no that, no that... they bring every request.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0232par0474	Just a second, calm down. Sir, calm down, I promised the people who were in the system. Now...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0233par0478	Request roll call.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0232par0479	I will submit the Republican People's Party's motion to your votes and seek the number of decisions that are sufficient.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0233par0480	That's enough for a meeting.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0232par0481	He wants roll call, please, sir. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Young, Mr. Acar, Mr. Guler, Mr. Acar, Mr. Yalçunkaya, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Öz, Mr. Öz, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Light, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Ork. Dear friends, now I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the CHP group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the group proposal has not been accepted. Now we move on to the part of the agenda. Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba has been nominated for one member of the Republican People's Party Group that has been discharged from the Environment Commission. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Edirne MP Kemal Değirmenderelı has been nominated for 1 membership in the Republican People's Party Group, which has been discharged from the Commission of Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, we're moving on to the agenda of "Other Affairs From Commissions With Law Bills and Proposals." We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın; Turkey's Grand National Assembly Institution Proposal for Change; Tunceli MP Kamer Gen's on the amendment of Articles of the Turkish Grand National Assembly; and the Constitutional Commission Report from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with Plan and Budget Commission Report on the 3rd ranked Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Companies Act. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Talks were completed on the entire draft bill, considered by Article 91 of the Civil Code, dated 02/11/2012, in the 15th Amendment. There was hesitation about the outcome of the open vote on the transfer of the bill to its substances, and a discussion of the procedure was opened. Our presidency has ruled that it would be appropriate to repeat the open vote in order to address this hesitation. (x) 239 S. The Numbered Basmaz was added to the 1/11/2012 15th Union Charter. Therefore, I'm now going to re-vote the adoption of the bill. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Now I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the law, I submit a clear vote on the adoption of the Articles of the Law Bill 239. ▪ Number of votes used : 195 [[x]] Muhammad Bilal Macit Mustafa Hamarat So we've become able to start the transition to the substances -- which have been agreed on. Let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers 1 to 30. I'm reading the names of our friends who want a word on chapter one. On behalf of the groups, Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0234par0534	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as you know, were interrupted by the negotiations of this law. Now we're in their section. Mr. President, I think our friends are waiting for the roll call. Not ten minutes of roll call yet, let them relax. I'm sad here. Before we get to the content of the law... Dear friends, valued group members, valued ruling party officials, it's now 19 o'clock. Over 100, and you see, the other side of the seesaw is not enough, but yes, our friends who cooperated with you have gone. They created tension here, so you put a dish there.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0235par0538	Tell them.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0234par0539	I'm telling you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0236par0540	Tell them.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0234par0541	Now, we're discussing a bill here. Sorry, it's just us, it's gone, the TV's gone. Now, listen carefully. Now, they're gone, and you're fighting each other. And I offer my regrets to Mr. President here because when we ask for one word, sir, five people. He says, one goes in, the other goes in, 20 goes in, 30 goes in, and I don't understand what kind of a sense of law is that? Are we playing a theater or what? So after 1900, the TV was turned off, Mr. Secretary. Now, we're going to make a law, it's already 20. It's filling up at 00. It happened last time, we came, it happened here, it happened, I swear to God, to your theater...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0237par0542	Don't bring group advice.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0234par0543	Group advice comes in, that's something else. He's been here for over an hour, he's been picking on her, he said, he said... we're doing it. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0238par0545	That's not what you said last week.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0234par0546	It's only ten to six. Look, it's only ten to six, it's not enough, but yes, we see your cover deals with the workers. I'm sorry that no one's buying your fight in front of everyone with the TV on. Dear friends, now, look, we've been arguing for days. We're on the Plan and Budget Commission upstairs, our ministers are here. We asked the Minister of Justice the other day, and the authorities are asking your ministers. On the one hand, we're expressing all our complaints here. There are MPs arrested in prison, and when they get there, sir, it's a trial, and we can't interfere. On the other hand, sir, there's a hunger strike, Mr. Arinc says: Mr. Prime Minister has instructed Mr. Ergin. We're preparing for Mr. Ergin. So, what happened? How? What about independent judgment? This is where you point out to your friend on one side of this side as the deputy leader of the group, while we put ourselves in the place of the trial, each one of us is cleared. That's not fair! So after that, there's something going on between you and him, like there's a fight going on, and it's blocked. So, what's it gonna be? On the other hand, now, Mr. Prime Minister, let's discuss the death penalty. The ministers all say we don't have that kind of work. We don't believe in this covered fight. Friends, we've already told you about this law -- it's not possible to get out of the general framework because it's been discussed -- you know -- it's a law that's been passed in the past period, and Mr. Secretary brought it back. Yeah, he needs to be interviewed. Do you need it? I do. But since it's not being reassigned to all institutions and passed through a bill, we've completed some of its shortcomings in the Plan and Budget Commission, while they're being discussed in the subcommittee, and we've told some of it to our friends as much as we can. There are still problems with the content of the law, there are issues that are controversial in some articles, but more importantly, what I'm trying to say is that these issues did not go through the official process before the bill was matured, by discussing it with relevant institutions, private sectors, relevant ministries -- except for the public meeting. We're coming to the commission, we're asking, we're saying there are sentences in three, four articles, 42, 44, 46. And we look at it at that moment, and the punishment we give one of them starts from six months to one year, and the other one starts from one year to three, up to five in one place. So we're in a hurry to make a law. If these had gone through normal processes, if the opinions of relevant institutions, institutions, and private sector representatives had been removed, we wouldn't have to work so hard here, we wouldn't have to work so hard up here, we'd have to work so hard on the commission, we'd have to get it out fast after we've done it in the subcommittee. Especially after the financial crisis, we're saying that the world's financial markets should be revisited. The need to be removed is one thing, the lack of content is another. Example: Our friends have arrived, made demands. The air and sea transports are considered subcontractors, but we don't provide that in land vehicles that have a lot more. I told you there, we'll fix it at the General Assembly now. He's come all the way here. While this is being done, there's associations about land vehicles, there's movers, there's the Federation of Drivers, there's a son. We want all kinds of documents from these, and when we don't find them, traffic cops, state-of-the-art police, do they all write them down? He's writing it down. Thus, they must come from the beginning, understood, spoken, discussed, and discussed, with the opposition's views taken, otherwise they do not have a sense of law. We've done it, we've done it. We bring logic into it, and unfortunately it's incomplete. There's something new coming in less than a month. Well, it sounds like it's in a lot of laws. We'll say what happened. Let's add that to the top. Why? And that's where it was forgotten. That's what we're saying, if there's anything missing, there's no way of detecting what we're missing when we don't listen, and we don't, when we don't. You're going to say your position as power, the sector representatives are going to say what we saw, and then we're going to say what's missing, and then we're going to compromise whatever's reasonable. Of course, by the way, each ministry has its own point of view. Naturally, now, we have looked, there are exceptions in Article 37, and there are provisions on the terms of the tax. Even in the commission, the Ministry of Finance officials and the other ministry cannot fully negotiate. Of course, the budget is the top priority of the IRS. What's he gonna do? What happens when he's short in the budget? Here, like in the past few months, let's see if we can get a raise on tuition, taxes, no public goods, so we can cut the budget deficit. So here's a wrong decision that we're going to make to our small-income citizens tomorrow, to our citizens who are already suffering from lack of income, as well as tax injustice. What if we're taxed indirectly, if we don't get direct taxes, the wrong practices that we're doing here, unfortunately, are coming out of our under-income citizens. That's why we need to remove these defects here. When we met with the Minister, they told them that we had some shortcomings up until the General Assembly, that they would meet with the representatives of the institution and make some arrangements. We have motions on those matters. Let's hope those flaws will be compensated. Also, I told you, when this bill was being discussed, our friends were both interested in the financial contract, on the other hand, the financing companies and the factoring companies wanted a separate union. At our proposal, we formed a professional union that brought the three of them together. And while he was being discussed, I said, "The SEC law is coming, so look, let's form a partnership of capital market companies, or let's form a union of financial institutions, we did part of it, but there's going to be a capital market union. Now, we, the National Movement Party, are opposed to a lot of unity, upper board, organisation, independent board inflation, dear friends, in our election statement. What we argue from the past to today is that if we want the Ministry of Economics to be conducted in one hand, the lack of co-ordination to be removed, not three or four ministries responsible for the economy, we want to organize one upper body in the financial markets, and under that, in circles. In fact, ideally, in the same way, in terms of financial institutions, the accession banks, together, would be more reasonable to evaluate the other banks as one, as well as others as other non-bank financial institutions, because it's a waste of resources, and we have institutions that are inadequate in terms of membership, and, as a force of influence, are more dominant. For him, we think there's only one institution about both financial co-ordinators and financial markets... there's a lot of money boards, there's a Privatisation Board, there's a Co-ordination Board, there's one financial markets, there's a high board of finances, there's a lot of ministers, there's a lot of ministers coming in, and there's a lot of people talking about what's going on, because otherwise what's going on? If there's a lack of coordination, some of us become brakemen, some of us become gas guys, while we forget about the steering wheel, the driver's license, and what happens happens to our citizens in the end. Okay, you can say it's okay. But unfortunately, in that bus, we have citizens who have nothing to do with it, who have nothing to do with the brakes or the gas, who have nothing to do with driving. Since we're all going to get hurt together, let's all do this together in terms of power, opposition, run democracy without having to live, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0239par0554	Thank you, Mr. Günal. The second speaker is Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Kuşoglu, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0240par0558	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Financial Rentals, Factoring and Financial Corporations Act, whose number is 239. I salute you all. Financial rental, factoring and financing companies are currently authorized by the Banking Management and Control Agency on how to regulate these things, and you know that there is an arrangement now in the implementation of these institutions related to factoring, financial rental and financing companies. This arrangement is the 3226th and 1985th Law on financial rental companies. Regarding the establishment and activities of Factoring and financing companies, the ruling issued in 1983 is the Law Act on Borrowing Money Management 90. So it's pretty old. In fact, the arrangement exists now, but due to the problems that have arisen in practice, because of the positive or negative issues that have arisen in practice, this Law had to be changed, and there was a study about it. In time, of course, the law must change. The rapid change, the change in technology, that's what it takes. The Plan and Budget Commission did a good job on the matter, and it has infrastructure. In connection with the issue, the opinions of the occupational institutions were taken, and we did a study with them, and we also made significant changes. For example, we've made a significant increase in these companies regarding their paid capital. We've set the minimum amount of paid capital in line with the conditions of the day. We've created a new structure for surveillance and audits of these companies, and we've built a stronger structure. We've provided companies with an obligation to reciprocalize their potential losses. Again, the headlines such as the adaptation, the operation, and the decrees have been adapted to international literature. Again, the Association of Financial Rental Corporations, the Association of Factoring Companies and Finance Corporations is being established and the obligation to be a member of these institutions is under this new arrangement. Again, we believe administrative and judicial punishments in the sector have been made in line with the conditions of the day. We, the Republican People's Party, supported the bill in accordance with the views of professional organisations. Because businesses, associations related to this, have also expressed their opinion, and we have supported the Republican People's Party, supported the bill and the conditions of the day, to be adapted to international terminology, to an international level, to a modern level. There's just one thing, especially when we're trying to explain in the Commission, although we're trying to explain, we probably haven't said enough about our problems, and we've also got opposition, and we're offering it to our General Assembly's appreciation. I'd like to get your attention on this particular matter. The issue is that we object to as the Republican People's Party, there's a Constitutional issue during the arrangement. You know, according to our Constitution, taxes are laid down by law, they are lifted by law. According to our Constitution, a tax is imposed by law, lifted by law, and yet has given the Council of Ministers the authority to organise rates on tax exemptions and exceptions, as well as on reductions. It has only given the Council of Ministers a mandate to determine the rates. Here's the situation: according to current legislation, banks and insurance companies can cut back on taxes. Insurance companies can make reductions according to general provisions, according to the Tax Act. However, the banks and, according to this arrangement, the banks will also be subject to the Banking Law in securing special responses. According to the Banking Law, BDDK has the authority to identify the rates. Only the Council of Ministers has been granted authority here, unfortunately, to the BDDK. This is clearly against the Constitution. We've tried to make this very clear in the Commission, but the Plan and Budget Commission, you know, it's a constitutional commission, 40 people, 25 ruling members, unfortunately we haven't been able to hear enough about it. My dear friends, one thing I have to say about the matter may be that, as you know, many laws in the 2012 European Union Progress Report are being criticised. It is said that the laws adopted are not usually at the level of the European Union; the laws that need to be adopted are not at the level of the European Union, and the consultation and preparation for the laws adopted are not enough. There is such criticism in the 2012 European Union Progress Report. I don't think that's gonna happen this time. I can give you the good news. I wish good luck to our country in accordance with the Law on Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finances. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0241par0571	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Any more words on behalf of the groups? No. On behalf of the individuals, Mr. Kazim Kurt, Eskişehir MP. Mr. Wolf, please.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0242par0576	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a personal commitment during the meeting of Bill 239. I salute you all. First of all, I find it useful to say that the law was submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 28/4/2009, and was refurbished on 23/3/2012, after being left to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Taking into account this past, I don't think it's appropriate for us to try to pass the law in a hurry without having a proper discussion at the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Because if we really need this in a hurry, the subcommittee reported it at 24/4/2012, the original Plan Budget Commission reported it at 9/5/2012, but now we have a chance to discuss it at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Of course, social development exceeds legal legislation and especially serious business developments require immediate legal arrangements. Therefore, we wanted to contribute to the development of a Republican People's Party in this area, which has not been processed since 1980, but unfortunately, some of our proposals on the lower commission and the Plan Budget Commission have not been considered. If such proposals were seriously adopted by the end of 2012, financial rental would be transformed into a form, just as factoring should be applied. Now, with the new legislation, of course, this financial rental process and the factoring establishment must be adapted to the conditions of the day. How will it be adapted? A year ago, you changed the Turkish Trade Act. Many of the applications you've brought in the Turkish Trade Law are not in practice affordable to the financial rental and factoring institution, it doesn't satisfy its needs, and the system that you've brought about the establishment, capital and functioning of the anonymous companies is inadequate today. Well, then, it's the special law that's the way to eliminate this inadequacy. Now, with the law that we're going to make, of course, we're going to have to come up with a difference from other anonymous companies, a separate guarantee from other anonymous companies. What way is that? Since the financial rental and factoring business is directly linked to finance, money and capital, the amount of capital must once be made very different from the normal anonymous companies. Again, the control of these anonymous companies must be regulated under very special conditions and a mechanism to be supervised according to these special circumstances. Unfortunately, Turkey is running things in a practice that is incomplete and neglected to create these monitoring mechanisms. In particular, we've experienced the problems of notary contracts, notarized surrenders in past times. We now find it useful to be a little more careful with this registration and delivery process within the union record, when it will be carried out under the control of the union. It was useful to make this subject more in line with the conditions of the day, but unfortunately, it was incomplete. In the coming period, serious problems, serious problems will arise over the delivery, execution of these transactions and the end of the contracts. The trials stemming from these trials will involve trade courts and will cause serious problems for our citizens. We can't live with these feelings. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yes... thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0243par0585	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. The second speaker on behalf of Bitlis Congressman Vedat Demiröz. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0244par0589	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I give you all my regards. The Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Companies Act bill was first passed with broad participation in the Plan and Budget Commission, with support from opposition parties and with a truly exemplary work -- both in the subcommittee. This agreement continued in the upper Commission, and is now on the agenda of the General Assembly with new regulations to clear the way for the sector. As a result of changes in the financial sector and the needs of implementation, these regulations seem to be insufficient for these companies to be able to carry out their activities in a reliable and effective manner. It was intended for companies to operate within the framework of legal regulations that can answer today's needs and to organise the establishment and activities of relevant companies under a single rule of law. In this framework, the minimum-paid capital sums that financial rental companies should have were made in line with the conditions of the day. The development of legal infrastructure required for effective surveillance and audits of companies is required to separate companies from companies in order to compensate for the damage they are expected to receive due to their transactions, and the definition of the financial rental process is being adopted in line with international standards, with the law brought in. In matters such as rental, subletting, renting computer software, hiring back-to-site, financial rentals from abroad are required to introduce new provisions that will pave the way for the sector. I think this law will pave the way for the sector around financing, and it will be much more efficient in business work and in accordance with the conditions of the day, and I give you all a lot of respect.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0245par0596	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Now, on chapter one, for 15 minutes, we're going to do a QA. Two of our friends are in the system. Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0246par0600	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've also expressed in my speech, but there were concrete discrepancies with this tax. Has anything been done with the IRS? And again, I'm asking about the tax requirements for Article 37 that we've overlooked, Mr. Secretary. Also, there's a sentence on the other clause -- the 9th article -- other than the checks. There, with false documents, there may be something to be done. Is there an arrangement on that subject? Do we have a motion now? I don't know, because friends haven't dealt yet. Those matters need to be reorganised the way we discussed them upstairs. I just wanted to remind you about those things again. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0247par0605	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0248par0607	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, it's been known that Factoring and financial rental companies in particular have been making serious growth in the last five years. How have the number of financial rental and factoring companies, annual turnovers, and the number of corporate companies, in particular, changed in 2003 and 2012? What is this place in the economy, these companies? What is the size of our people, our citizens, who are now victims of the practices of these companies in the system? Is there a measure of that taken? Yes, they're in an important part of the economy, and I believe that, but for people who are victims, no measures have been taken. Do you plan to arrange that? How are you going to bring about a bilateral balancing? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0249par0610	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0250par0612	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we know that during or during this period of law enforcement, the factoring companies have been working in collaboration with various companies. During these studies, we had two or three debts in a single process, with various documents being drawn up on many subjects. In many cases, there were notarized citizens who signed notarized documents as if they had received the property they had not received. Is there any indication, in quantity or concrete, of the damage done by citizens as a result of these practices, the falsifications you've encountered?
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0249par0614	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0251par0616	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what percentage of these companies, financial rentals, factoring and financing, are foreign capital? Do you have any indication of their profit transfer? There's a claim in the market that some of these companies are loan sharking, smothering struggling industrial companies, investors. So it's said there's a bit of a political side to the issue. That could be a rumor, it could be true, and I'd appreciate it if you'd give me some information on it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0252par0620	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0253par0622	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Minister, there are no incentives for exports from 2011 to this side in the narcissist -- which is referred to as a DFIF loan, or as an incentive -- that has not been paid, there is no payment. Can he help with that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0254par0625	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. We don't have a friend asking any more questions, he's in the system. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0255par0628	Thank you. First of all, it's a bill about non-designation, financial lease, factoring and financing companies, which sort of covers the financial sector outside of banking, and renegotiates all of our legislation from scratch. Here, first of all, the legal infrastructure of all three companies -- factoring, consumer financing companies and financial rental companies -- is being made in line with the standards of the European Union and the needs of Turkey today, and the authority of the BDK (BDK) on regulation and control is explicitly defined on all these institutions. These organizations, in fact, are concerned about the well-being of these organizations, especially in terms of financing the SMEs and especially in terms of financing them. So it's important that our companies, who can't access the banking system, who can't benefit from banks for one reason or another, apply to these institutions as an alternative funding source and work with them. Of course, there will be a very, very important task for the BDK to be able to regulate and supervise all kinds of harm done here, so that the BDDK should monitor our institutions very closely in the coming period. We need to secure both their finances and their relations with their clients, with their credit clients, and they need to be allowed no injustice, no unlawful treatment. So if we look at it from this angle, now, again, to go into a little bit of detail, there are now 78 factoring companies, and the total of their assets is around $16.3 billion, and the number of foreign-owned factoring companies is four. In addition, the volume of the transactions of these organizations, how much they process one by one, all have data in the BDDK, and we can forward them to you later in writing. Whether it's the financial rental firms or the factoring companies, especially in their application, they must act in accordance with market regulations. In particular, some serious complaints about factoring companies have come to us from the period of the factoring companies, and at one point in 2008, a relicing process was launched in all factoring companies, and about 30 companies' licenses were completely revoked at that time. In addition, the industry has prepared a series of ethical rules to improve itself by the association, and as a member of that association, it has also been a voluntary recovery of its own. And there are also those that we bring with this law, and we give them a period of time, whether you're a factoring company or you're a shut-down company. And we're taking that sector completely out of business now because when it's very different, there's also trouble with their control, their supervision. Whether this is a foreign partnership, whether it's banks or financing companies, whether it's the building companies or the factoring companies, how much of their profits can they distribute, how much they can transfer, all of which are subject to the regulations of the BDK. For example, even banks are now given very, very limited access to the distribution of profits from Turkish banks or banks operating in Turkey, especially because you want to keep their capital strong. Especially not to the outside profit transfer, as far as I know, almost never. So if you're doing well in Turkey, if the volume of credit is growing fast here, you need strong capital, add your profits to your capital. It's called, it's usually treated that way. Of course, there are exceptions, especially when it comes to profit distribution. But especially during the 2008-2009 crisis. Our credit volume is growing, our banking system is growing, but in parallel, their capital needs to grow. It's either going to bring in capital from the outside, or it's going to leave its profits inside, and since capital in this period is not so easy for the financial sector, it's usually leaving a significant portion of the profits inside and adding them to the capital that our corporations have strengthened their capital. First few questions, I'll give you their answer. Yes, the exception of Article 37 is already in the current bill and the proposals for 9/3, which can be evaluated, so let's study it, since it will be closed at eight o'clock today, and hopefully in the next session of it, we can bring something with a proposal or two. Were there any other questions left out? 'Cause I didn't get all the notes, so it came back a little fast. Oh, there was a question about the DFI, although it's not about the law. We're about to have a DFI decision on the Narenci. We've made this decision with our fellow ministers, though. The Ministry of Development, you know, is making an arrangement to establish the basis of the Council's decision. After that, we've got ministers involved, we've got a board called the Money-Credit Board, and we're making those payments after our ministers on that board complete their signature. Yes, about this forgery, of course, if our citizens' losses can connect to a report, there is no doubt that the BDDK will be able to take the necessary steps at all times. There is also a criminal complaint against those who have been identified as loan sharks, and the law has again authorised the BDDK until the annulment of the license. On the one hand, we're going to support these organizations, and we're going to try to get these organizations to do more work, give funding to more of our SMEs, but on the other hand, they need to be closely monitored in a way that prevents ill-intentioned approaches, victims. It's a financial sector like this, so sometimes we get angry, sometimes we like it, maybe there's different approaches, but in the end, we have to support them to do their job well and do a lot of work, but we have to do it very closely, with close surveillance and close supervision. So far, we've had this approach to the financial sector: we've usually taken restrictive measures when things are good, but we've applied them to loosen our regulations more when the economy is slow, so in a way we've done a reverse cycle work. In 2004, 2005, 2006, at the time when all the legal arrangements in Turkey were growing too fast, we brought in some sort of limiting, more controlling measures. Again, at the end of 2010, you know, we took measures that would prevent increased credit volumes, limit the increase of credit volumes in some way, but we brought those measures back when Turkey was 9.2% older. Today, for example, when you look at the European Union, unfortunately, things can be done the opposite. They are already tightening the regulatory process of the banking system when the economy is narrowed down and in distress, which leads to the deepening of the crisis in Europe. Therefore, timing is very, very important, the timing of these arrangements is important, the dosage is extremely important, and in the context of macroeconomic policy, a proper arrangement must be chosen. Our belief is that, hopefully, after this bill was fully assessed by the Turkish Grand National Assembly, we had already established a substantially new legal framework in our banking sector. A good frame is now available, related to our banks. And hopefully we'll be able to get these financial institutions out of the banks to a more solid, more modern, modern arrangement framework. Of course, there may be specific issues about matter. We can also discuss these issues when the matter is discussed, or if you have suggestions, we can take those suggestions today and work until the next session, and we are open to that. By the way, there were also transactions about this exchange Mr. Günal....that Mr. Günal was talking about in the previous session...... should we put it in this law or not? We've signed our amendment to Resolution 32 on this, and it's currently in the signing of the Council of Ministers. Once that change is in effect, we won't have to make any arrangements. The Council of Ministers already has the authority and has been signed. We're implementing the arrangement for those exchange transactions you mentioned by the Council of Ministers' decision. So we didn't see the need to do it with a law because it's already under the authority of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit05spe0256par0645	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm gonna take a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-15sit06spe0256par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 239. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since our work period is short-lived, it is agreed that on Tuesday (November 20th 2012) the hour is 15 p.m., to discuss verbal question motions and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with draft and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
