tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 131st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word outside the agenda belongs to Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, who wants to speak about the rights of security forces. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Congressmans, please, if we're quiet, we'll be able to listen to our congressman on the stand in a more comfortable and better way. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0002par0012	Thank you. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the issues of the Turkish nation's security personnel. I salute your high council. In fact, the security personnel have a lot of problems, and I was going to tell you about them, but after yesterday's news of the martyrs from GATA, and the news from Van. I'd like to present a paper on martyrs: *Jandama Specialist Sergeants Yahya Karakaya and Murat Ozkozanoglu died in a treacherous ambush on the morning of July 5, 2011. It wasn't in the interest to reach the continents that day, when the sergeants ran ahead of everyone else and gave the first kick. The gunmen who stood up to the enemy and did not come out of the nobility of giving him the first move secretly pointed their guns at him from behind. Every day from home to the barracks, the sergeants watching their fronts and sides didn't think the trigger would be dropped from behind them. The sergeants fell back and forth, with their skulls smashed and their brains blown out into the street, looking for seniority. That song they knew began to flow like a lullaby in the ears of the martyrs who were bleeding from the burning lungs of your mother's heart. Look, they killed you on the road, son. While the alca, fermented with their mother's white milk, watered the sidewalks of Highova, the martyrs simply drank the vibration of that familiar sound, the insatiable taste of it, like life's water. How should he know that he is the master of cunning, treachery, treachery, and treachery, face-to-face, eye-to-eye, in the morning hour of the ambush of death? The father who came from the culture of rebellion and trust is not used to the fate of the son who died in the cross-fighting of the two men. He can't believe it, Father Kamil, if you swear by me that treason, cruelty, and not the tradition of the Avşar, is beyond belief. And if the twain had the courage to strike, he poured out his august into himself, and endured his pain: Was he the mountainman who struck you, or was his bullets oily? And thou didst not shoot him, and thou didst not strike him, and he said, "Was thy hand tied up?" Your son, bloody as he is, wants to face the roof of your forehead, not sneak up on you one day when the opportunity arises. On May 15th, he couldn't stand the longing for Sergeant John, who entered the world house with Funda Adile and returned to Highova a few days later, so he suddenly came to the door of his father's house. Before the people of the household, he met the flags that had turned the neighborhood into a field of ferrets. The mother embraced the flood, holding the coffin firmly, stretched out to the haunts of the central mosque without speaking. Aunty, they call it the main half. The martyr sergeant's aunt caressed the coffin: John, John! The brother called out to the lamb. Then he held his son in his arms and raised him in the air and cried out to the congregation: "This one will also be a martyr! He turned into the cameramen trying to film the family with the one in his lap: Pull, pull, and broadcast on every channel. Martyrs don't die. Look, Mehmet's here, all our children Mehmet-chik. Print them so the Prime Minister can hear them. The mother, who attended the funeral under the care of a doctor, has her voice cut off from crying, making her study in America. No way, he's in charge. He said to calm things down, and to cry out for my lamb, and not to leave him in the coffin again. For the first time, the Funda was buried in the flag-wrapped coffin of the life partner she kissed at the wedding fifty-two days ago. And he stroked it with his unrelenting hands, and kissed it many times in the veil. He called out to his martyr, "My dear, how did they kill you? Those who kill you, break their hands. Sweetheart, where are you going leaving me? John was not a spoilsport, but a Sergeant. That's what the fortune is all about. I couldn't keep my promise. I left the house early, and he wanted to call me Forgiveness. He wanted to say other things, but when his tongue couldn't turn and make a sound, he calmed down and listened. It was the first time his father couldn't stand up, Sergeant Yehia. He lays hands on the father, and sits on the couch with the servant. You can't sit down without being told to sit down. When his father called, he'd be in the middle of the ground, big sergeant. How could he not be embarrassed? For the first time, he did not err, but was scolded by his father, saying, "My son, I am angry with you. Why don't you get up from there, my child? Even if he wants to stand up, his strength is in vain, and he can't get up. And when he couldn't stand up to your father, he grew smaller and smaller in the coffin. He's so embarrassed, he's all tucked away. What's to be done is done quickly, not kept alive. At noon, after the funeral prayer made by Kayseri Mufti, they sent to the hands of the great Sergeant Avşar, whom they had made lawful. Here come the young Avsar with their flags on their shoulders to see their comrades off. Damn the PKK! The martyrs didn't die, and the country couldn't be divided. And the inhabitants of the Obah saluted the martyr with a military greeting, and blessed him with a conqueror. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Köyükoğlu probably burned the song to death before he died: He called to Hizir Nebi. He called to my rescue. With these feelings, I salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0003par0033	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Bolu MP Ali Ercoshkun (Bulu) who wants to talk about spring festivals. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0004par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I begin my words, I ask the martyrs of terror, God's mercy, and his precious relatives' condolences. Mr. President, dear MPs, I have taken an off-the-book promise about the festivals in our Bolu, a corner from heaven. I hereby salute you and our precious citizens who are watching us on their screens with respect and love. 65% of us are covered in forests, and we have a region of great beauty, with 9 counties, 4 cities, 492 villages, and a region that addresses all areas of tourism, especially nature, sports and thermal tourism, except sea tourism. Bolu, a structure between two of Turkey's most important cities, perhaps trapped between Ankara and Istanbul, is moving towards a structure that has been isolated from both provinces, with its beauty being activated. It is possible for us to move the beauty of 9 counties to all Turkey, even out of the country, with its spring festivals, with its festivals, with its spring festivals, with its four-nation bows, with its four-nation festivals. With Abant, with the Seven Gells, with the Kartalkaya, with all Turkey's Esentepe, even with its beauty beyond the borders of our country, our Bolu (Bolu) is known abroad for its beauty, with its spring-to-summer festivities, with its spring-to-summer seasons, especially on the weekends. In the spring, these festivities begin with the most important event in which the late Izzet Baysal Days, commemorated by Izzet Baysal, a service from birth to death, and all of Bolu's great philanthropists, Izzet Baysal. Along with their natural riches, our Bolu, who have great wealth and depth, begins to read and pour rice in order to give thanks to Jehovah. It is usually a celebration of gratitude for the riches of Bolu (Bulu) that the inhabitants of that village often attended by visitors from a distance. The festivals spread throughout Bolu are also held in the form of festivals in some counties. We see festivals in Akshemseddin, the land of Akşemseddin. These festivals are taking place in Seben Taşlıya and Seben district of Seben, which is famous for its apples, its plateaus and its recent creations. We all celebrated the Silk Road Festival last week together with the Fathers on the Silk Road, with Sarot, with the Stonecutite, with the village of Mudurnu. Our district, which is famous for its days as well as for Lake Yeniçaka, attends these festivities. Köroglu land, Köroğlu nature march is a county where the festivals are held again, which is commemorated every year. The air, the water is strong, but he's a brave Gerede. With their oil wrestling, their fairs, and their activities, called "Mahya", these festivals are happening again at the beginning of spring and as they enter the autumn, in our Gebede, which addresses 50 percent of the skin sector, the raw leather sector. Having a reputation for Ottoman court cuisine, the country of cooks, representing us around the world, is joined in the same way as the village of Mengen, Gökçesisu, and the town of Bazazaköy. Last week, we all held the Mengen Cooking Festival together. The land of Cyprus, famous for its Karagöl festivals and its plateaus, is also trying to promote the natural beauty of Bolu (Bou) with these festivals to all Turkey, out of Bolu. As I mentioned earlier, our province, which has the wealth of Ankara, İstanbul, and even all of Turkey, has always kept its doors open for our valued MPs and our guests from all over Turkey. On the days when we are on vacation, we hope to welcome you all together with his opposition to the rule of Bolu. We want to share these beauties together. I want to express that we are ready with all the people of Bolu. We are waiting for opposition representatives, especially our Governor Ali Serindağ, in our Bolu. I, on this occasion, thank all our fellow citizens who watch us on the screen, and I thank you, the High Council, and I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0005par0052	Thank you, Mr. Ercoshkun. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Chorum MP Hurl Kose, who wants to talk about the antidemocratic practices of political power. Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0006par0057	Thank you. Mr. President, there has been a policy in our country based on lies for years. Having the support of America, the European Union, and even Israel, the AKP, which are conditioned in various ways, has taken the unlighted will of the deceived masses, tries to crush the country's patriotic, honest, genuine, and genuine nationalist forces, forcing its own borders on this issue every day. Yesterday, I told them, in the case of Sivas, which had been expired, they grew inside by spraying pepper spray on the pain the families wanted to reduce by sharing the pain. Just to remind you, I told you recently, when I was sixty-five years old, they arrested Kemal Gurak, a scientist who had left his seat fifteen years ago, on suspicion of running away, Kemal Gourek, who had interrupted his vacation. Again, we've all watched, the executives of KESK-related unions, public labour unions, were arrested on charges of being a member of a terrorist organization. My dear friends, do you know how many of our generals are inside? None of us do, do we? I'd like to refresh your memory: our general is now in prison. Is there any national honor for a man who has no strong or adequate army? Again, I told you recently, we have a friend, Ahmet Hodja of the robe. Ahmet Hodja of the robe said this, and I couldn't make myself clear in my last speech. He says that for this order and for you: they want to create a suitable capitalist Islam, that's all they want, or they'll never accept an Islamic stance against imperialism, they'll never accept nationalist Islam. I wanted to remind you of that. Again, the last examples of your antidemocratic practices where you don't know the limit. Are any of you here at the commission meeting of 4+4+4? Do you remember what happened at 4+4+4? I was there, on the table. Twenty-five, twenty-six articles were read within twenty minutes. No one wants to speak, no one wants to speak. You spent it, remember? And did you see the pictures that were shown in the press yesterday in the 3 · Global Voices Package? Did you see one of your friends with his hands up, his eyes full of hatred and hatred? You're the ones who made Sivas' lawyer speak here yesterday to commemorate the Sivas case, which you may remember, from yesterday to this side. The AKP's majority recently added brute force to its numerical majority and presented a new law enforcement technique to its writing. And for that, I want to congratulate you! Now I'd like to talk a little bit about legislature activities after concrete events. My dear friends, what did we do at the September 12th referendum? There was a very important substance missing, remember? You've made an arrangement to take control of the prosecution's location. There are no more obstacles to privatisations, so you can sell them however you want. The light of the eyes of this people. Sell what they have hoarded, as you will, and sell what you will. Well, now the bag of law is coming up, I guess, in a little while. Do you realize what you're trying to do with the bag of law? I mean, I don't think most of you realize it. You know what you're gonna do? The bag's in the law. You will also remove the control authority of the court. Do you realize what will happen when the Court is stripped of its control authority, my friends? Look, I'm reading from the Court reports. Without these Court reports, we won't know anything.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0007par0065	They know it all, they do it on purpose.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0006par0066	What did he say: "Do you know how much money is recorded in the account that will receive the right to operate in the active balance sheet of the TEDAS balance sheet...?" ..2 quadrillion 321 million euros in distribution companies, and there's no amount of money worth -- there's no amount of money worth -- how to collect $2 quadrillion -- or how to conclude the uncertainty of liquidation, the opinion of the Privatisation Administration. There's no price for 2 quadrillion 321 million. We won't be able to find out soon enough if it comes out in the Court's Law with your positive votes. Again, investments financed by the European Investment Bank and the World Bank have not been received, despite the Court's warnings, although it is written in the contracts. We're not gonna find out either. My dear friends, again from the Court's report: the sentences provided by the Court are referred to the collection offices assigned by the Finance Ministry for collection. However, the agencies are not making any effort to collect the fines, and they continue to say... We won't find out either. What about the fines for collecting? Look, I'm reading here that the Kütahya Sugar Factory has been sentenced to 24 trillion, 10 trillion fines for selling C sugar in the country. We're not gonna find out either. My dear friends, transparency... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and auditability is one of the essentials of public administration. And in the next bag of legislation, he wishes you all to consider them, with all due respect.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0008par0073	Thank you, Mr. Köse. Congressmans, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a very short commitment to our 10 congressmen under the Internal Charter 60. Here you go, Mr. Ayday.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0009par0078	Mr. President, thank you. The country has been ruled by decrees, the parliamentary democracy has been turned into a hanging leaf, the opposition has been taken into prisons, the military command has been arrested, Turkey has entered into the air of war with all its neighbours, the right to strike which has not been touched by September 12th Fascism has been banned, the Minister of Alevis has now been publicly defended, the 7000 Kurdish politicians have been placed in prisons under the name of the Turkish Cypriots, and the Prime Minister has been given the authority to form a gang, and there has been a number of non-profits. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0010par0081	Thank you, Mr. Ayday. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0011par0084	Nineteen years ago today in the Netherlands, a mother was informed that her daughter was burned alive in Sivas. Carina Thuijs was one of the 35 people slain in Madimak. He was a student of anthropology at Leiden University, who was supposed to be my colleague when he graduated. He's been victimized by murderers who've been dehumanized enough to kill his guests. On behalf of Carina, I'd like to ask you, how many of you have put the killers into work, how many of you have hidden the murderers, how many of you have cleared the murderers, how many of you today, yes, once again, how many of you have enjoyed watching the fire in Madimakamak, how many of you have tried to escape? Let go of the religious, the vindictive, as Edip Harabi. Be a man, this world is mortal.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0010par0086	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Atalay...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0012par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. In honor of the anniversary of the murder of Madimak on July 2, 93, I curse and pray for mercy and patience. However, the question of who would benefit from these and similar schemes has yet to come up with the correct answer. Looking at the reactions of the wire's activities, I would like to point out that it was directed to a place that was directed to eliminate the need for information on the real purpose. In addition, 38 of our innocent people were victimized by similar atrocities in Erzincan Prime Ministerates on July 5, 93, and Erzurum Yavi on October 25, 93. The fact that there is no agenda for the last two massacres in the House or in the country shows how far away we are from the principle of equality in our perception of man and society. If conscience is to judge the victims according to the degree of persecution, which of them do we have more opportunity to write their history? I think it is our moral obligation to ask the same consciences. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0013par0093	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0014par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, part of the Conqueror Sultan Mehmet Bridge was shut down on 18 June due to maintenance, repair and asphalt renovations. Minister of Transport Mr. Bakili Yıldırım said the study is mandatory, saying there is a greater risk of disaster if we don't do it. As studies of the bridge continue, Istanbulers are also suffering a great deal. Moreover, the night work on the bridge has been cancelled and doubled. Why can't we come up with a solution to reduce this traffic ordeal? In three months' time, a single-vehicle plate can be used to reduce traffic density, reduce the number of vehicles, meet with the authorities, and apply reduced taxi tariffs to both citizens and tradesmen, as in other countries, can be limited only to drivers. Instead of producing such solutions, authorities are content with taking the easy way out and offering alternative routes and offering vacations to Istanbulers. And lately, there's been no countermeasures against traffic accidents. Traffic accidents on a bridge are a serious problem. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0015par0099	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0016par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Although 19 years have passed since the massacre in Sivas Madimamak (July 2nd), it is remarkable that those who have broken the peace in this society will remain silent in Sivas, against those who seek to cause unrest among our citizens on the basis of faith. Sivas has come to a humiliating point where the trial is still in progress, where some criminals have been timed out. Criminals must be punished. If the state apologizes to Uludere (Uludere) during the 1938 class events, it should also apologize for what happened in Sivas. The suspects and the people responsible are still out there, so if necessary, they should be retrialed. If our citizens in this country will continue to live together as brothers with their Sunni, it is the government's duty to undo their negatives. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0017par0105	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0018par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, on July 2nd, I strongly condemn the Gods who burned alive the most precious creatures God had ever created, and those who had a single shred of sympathy for them. Yesterday, we saw the story of Menekse Kaya, who was directed by Soner Yalçın, who lost his two brothers in Sivas, as a documentary film. The hall burst into tears. The people who did this, let alone Muslims, can't even talk about their humanity. Unfortunately, in the name of Islam, in the name of religion, those who commit murder in the name of God, there are also those who support and sympathize, and I strongly condemn them. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0019par0113	Thank you, Mr. Original. Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0020par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. Between July 1st and July 2nd, the village of Muş has damaged serious fields of agriculture, including fields of wheat and lentils in the villages of Bulanık and Malazgirt districts, including villages of Çaygredi, Güçülpınar, Tülpear, Malazgirt district, and Tendurek, Hasretpınar and Adaksu. The hard work of our citizen who spent a year of hard work and financial resources on these lands has been wasted. I tell them to get well, with the proper sensitivity, I send them my wishes to repair the damage caused by the disaster, and I give them my regards.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0021par0119	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Mr. Eyeborn.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0022par0122	Thank you, Mayor. Tomorrow, July 4th, the 464th anniversary of the death of Barbaros Iştin Pasha, God rest his soul. We, the descendants of Barbaros, cannot search our plane, which has been dropped today and lies a thousand and a half feet deep, with one of our westerns, and we ask for it. We, the descendants of Barbaros, are in this land surrounded by the sea, in the deep seas, searching for oil, gas, foreign seismic ships, we hire them. Let us remember this situation on the anniversary of Barbaros' death. Let's remember the Academy of Politicalized Turkish Sciences and do the accounting. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0023par0126	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Moroglu.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0024par0129	Mr. President, we have 102 mayors whose courts have been closed today, and we are looking for justice at the gate of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. They held a press conference. They want to stop the closing of 102 courthouses blocking our 2 million citizens' access to justice. While our ministers and AKP Group Deputy President are here, we would like our mayors to step forward to respond to the demands of justice of 2 million citizens and to prevent the closing of 102 of our courts. That's where I deliver our mayor's request. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0025par0132	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0026par0135	The closure of the courts does not mean that three or five civil servants have to leave the county. Even for the simplest court services, old, sick, disabled people will have to travel for miles. However, while millions of investments are being spent on education, health, religion, transportation, communication services, our people are unfairly deprived of the justice service. Government, aiding Somalia, harboring Syrian dissidents, please reopen the courts that have been closed by order of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0027par0138	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Congressmans, I'm going to make a promise to lawmakers who have entered the other system. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0028par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. For those who have lost their lives in the events of Sivas and the Prime Ministers and all the martyrs who have lost their lives in the fight and in their duties, I ask for God's mercy once again, and wish our veterans immediate healing and happiness in their lives. On this occasion, I share with you and the public the demands that our fallen families and veterans be given their second job rights, that the People's Medal of Honor be bound by their pensions, that their fathers be paid at a minimum salary separately, that their martyrs and their fathers may receive wages and jobs, increase their disability increase, and pay full salary.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0029par0145	Thank you, Mr. Light. Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0030par0148	Mr. President, thank you. A speaker friend of ours had just apologized to both my class and Roboski, and I wish the state had shown that virtue, and had been able to apologize to both my class and Roboski. We really believe that in order to face our past, the state must, yes, apologize to the public for these massacres. Secondly, the two-day KCK case in Istanbul, where the lawyers who were in the defence there were just attacked by the gendarmes. So they're all executives of the BDP, BDP staffs, important actors in the political world. They're being taken out of their native language... because they're Kurds, their right to defend in the native language... and the defense is being blocked as a whole. Where in the world is this fascism? You take it, you arrest it, you seize the right to defend it. You're beating up defense attorneys, and we don't know what to say about this order. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0031par0152	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Mr. Yellowhead.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0032par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. Çanakkale Çanakkale bell is a village and a village located at the foot of the Kazdağs. Is it true that this hot water in the Kazdağs of the village of Glasses is being tendered to a foreign company? Is this the North Mining Corporation? You know, this North Biga Mining Corporation is a front company. Did the Biga Mining Company hand this over to Alamos Gold Company? Is there a right to hand it over? If that's true, how many years and how much did he transfer it for? We know that even though the peasant here is declared to be a thermal and tourism area, these hot waters will be used in gold management, and the water of our 25 villages, the water of our village here, will be destroyed by the village group water. In this sense, this means that our villages and the fresh water used by the town of Bell...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0033par0160	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0034par0163	Mr. President, Turkey now has 12 billion tons of lignite coal reserves, and 4.4 billion tons of this in the area of Afshin Elbistan. The normal electricity production of the Afşin-Elbia field is 9,000 megawatts compared to this capacity, where it is still available to produce 3,000 megawatts of electricity from two private and state-owned power plants. Today, when I look at the capacities of the HESbooks that dry the streams, it changes between 25 and 50 megawatts. If you can produce 6,000 megawatts of energy in the ejected Afshin-Elbia field, it's worth at least 120 HES. So they are not banned from meeting with grandmothers or younger people's families at 80 years of age, nor are grandmothers driven by the gendarmes or by police pressure, nor are they massacred in streams, nor is nature destroyed. We say that we demand that the 6,000 megawatts of open energy in this Afshin-Elbia field be included in the production and taken the necessary steps to work on it. For your information. My respects.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0035par0166	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0036par0169	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, a very serious attack has been launched on the union movement recently. As a result of this attack by the judicial hand or by prosecutors, KESK President Lami Özgen and many trade unionists have been taken into custody, some friends have been arrested, Lami Özgen has been released, but there will probably be a lawsuit against him. One of the attacks was carried out in Mersin. Our friends Gürsel Şenşafak, Orhan Yıldırım, Yilmaz Bozkurt, who are head of the Bureau Workers' Union in Mersin, Education Sen President and Sound President, have been sued for making a press statement, and they have been sentenced to one year and three months in prison as a result of this case, and unfortunately the courts haven't decided to postpone. This decision is approved by the Supreme Court. It's a very dangerous thing, Mr. President, because if people are going to be punished for just making a press statement, it's time to shut down the voice of democracy and freedom in Turkey...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0037par0174	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0038par0177	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Bandirma Kuscenneti is one of Turkey's rare corners of paradise with an international A-class diploma. It covers 16,800 hectares and is one of the world's heritage, one of our paradise corners, which is Turkey's pupil. Recently, there were mass fish deaths near the lake. Despite this matter being referred to the governor's office, no response has been given to us so far. Also, the Tea of the Heart in the region is one of our most important sources in South Marmara, which is actually feeding South Marmara. There is also poison in the Gulf of Erdek, to the south of Marmara, to the south of Erdek. When will you take these matters into your government's agenda and when will you examine them? Will you value human health, environmental health?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0037par0179	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Mr. Spectacle...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0039par0182	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister a question. As we all know, one of Turkey's most important problems is unemployment. On the one hand, the unemployment benefit was established to reduce the negative effects of the unemployment problem, to support unemployed people, and also to eliminate unemployment. But there has been serious doubt in the public that the funds are being used out of context. Two weeks ago, the Minister of Finance issued a statement on a question in the Plan and Budget Commission, saying that so far the funds have accumulated 74.6 billion liras, the funds are $18.6 billion, and a $56 billion in funds in this framework. Payments under the fund are $10.7 billion when other subsidiary expenditures are subtracted from the funds. I'd like to ask you now: how much of this is paid to those who have the right to the legislation, how much of it is used to other spendings outside of the field, and what expenses have they been used for? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0040par0185	Thank you, Mr. Türeli. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0041par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. In our motion yesterday on the Sivas incident, most of the MPs who spoke on behalf of the AKP Group were innocent. Upon their words, I was not lazy yesterday, I received the justified verdict of the Sivas case, and I found out which defendants this speaker was following. I want the AKP Group to know this very well, as if there were no other speakers in your group, as if there were no one more suitable to speak to, that someone who was the advocate for the Sivas trial massacres should be brought before us as a speaker once again. Dear friends, this friend of ours has taken over the custody of two defendants and both defendants have been sentenced to death. If that's what he's saying, then who knows what the innocent have done?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0042par0191	Thank you, Mr. Sky... Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0043par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. In connection with the closure of the courts that many of our fellow MPs have expressed, a delegation from Kastamonoh's Çaltırzeytin district will be here today to announce their voices in Ankara's Abdi İpekçi Park. I, on orders from the Ministry of Justice, would like to have this wrong practice removed immediately. At the same time, our district of Çatalzeytin will receive these services from the neighbouring province of Sinop. I, for one, intend to stand by the committee that has come here, to have this practice abandoned by order of the Ministry of Justice. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0044par0197	Thank you, Mr. Chanar. Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0045par0200	Thank you. The violence of Sivas Madimak, which took place on July 2nd, is shameful. I'm condemning this case. We all have to think calmly about the reasons for the incident, give strength to a mutual look and understanding that will provide the brotherhood. In the Sivas case, 190 people were arrested, 33 people were sentenced to life, 14 people were sentenced to 15 years. Three days after this incident, the chieftains again slaughtered 33 people at the night prayer, referring to Sivas, who carried it out. There's a dark background here and a social climate that gives such initiatives a chance of success. The most important thing we're going to fight is not the provocation claims that exonerate people, but the social situation that allows provocations. We need to remember that the political staff also built the future when they told us about the past. That's why he calls it language and expression, and I pay respects.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0044par0202	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. I promise the last two MPs. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0046par0206	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Council of Ministers is here. Because of global warming in our country, there are occasional local catastrophes. One of them is that the disaster in one of our provinces -- sent with its signatures -- is not delayed by the manufacturers' debt to the Agriculture Bank and agriculture loans. There are apples in that area, for example, cherries in that area, apricots; their income depends on them. Due to these losses, our producers have requested a postponement of agricultural loans and the Agriculture Bank for this period. I'll present the relevant petition to the Minister, and I'll expect some support from them in that area. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0047par0209	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Mr. Sener...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0048par0212	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, curse the events and events of the 2nd of July, and all that followed, but I find it a serious flaw in building our future for peace, to act, to view any party group's spokesman or any legitimate structure as involved in such events. Each one of us should approach such events in cold blood, with his youth, reveal the truth, not give bonuses to such countertops, nationals or internationals. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0049par0215	Thank you, Mr. Sener. I'm not making any promises to our other two congressmen because I've already promised them. Thank you. We're going on the agenda, Mr. Lawmakers. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The government has made significant changes in the ministry's organizational structures, using the authority to remove the KHK from the TBMM. The Department of National Education No. 652 has been transformed into a "student inspector" who has a very important place in the educational system under the State of the Law on Agency and Missions of the Ministry of Education. In addition, additional payment has been introduced to ensure the balance of wages between staff and staff in the same or similar positions as the 666 KHK. Due to the recent title of supervisor to the education inspectors, they were paid in addition to other inspectors, although they were inspectors. The inspector and the inspector don't mean the same thing. Investigators and inspectors have a different way of assigning. Investigators of Education have been appointed by the law after finishing a four-year faculty for at least eight years. In the terms of the appointment of supervisors, there are no eight-year work conditions. They're assigned directly to the job by taking the test. Investigators and inspectors have different status in the law. All inspectors are present in the general management services class (g) on the I-numbered additional indicator table of the 657 Law. And the controllers are in the corner of the lower bank. So they're lower status than inspectors. The training inspectors' additional indicators are also different. There's a difference between inspectors and inspectors. The municipal education inspectors work on the status of the county manager and are authorized to supervise the assistant director of national education, the district director of national education and branch managers. The inspectors don't have that kind of supervision. The task of supervisor and training inspector is different. The inspectors perform the task of controlling an area. In the field of training inspectors, however, there are tasks of guidance and training, inspection, inspection, investigation and research in the field of employment. It is a big mistake and against the law to be given the same title as a profession that controls the quality of the exported egg, to be guided and inspected by hundreds of thousands of university-educated administrators and teachers. Most of the inspectors have been converted from the control office. Accounting controllers were appointed accountants in 1995. National real estate control officers were appointed national real estate inspectors in 1994. Social security officers were appointed social security inspectors in 2011. Tax control officers were appointed tax inspectors in 1994. In fact, some of the product inspectors are cotton experts in their origins. The experts were made export controllers in 1983, made standardization inspectors in foreign trade in 1994, and made product inspectors in 2011. Inspector, it is not appropriate for the state of law to change its title as a supervisor and to be put in the same position as the controllers. In the Finance Ministry, when tax inspectors are being made tax inspectors, it is inconsistencies for the government to be turned into inspectors of education at the Ministry of National Education. For years, discrimination and anti-discrimination policies for education inspectors have fed up with education inspectors. Training inspectors are not enemy soldiers. They're the people of this country. The discrimination of education inspectors has reached a point where once a year the appointment of a spouse has not been granted the right of education inspectors to ask their spouses for a transfer. All state inspectors have been relieved of their rights to the assigned housing of education inspectors, while the state has been assigned to public housing. Not all inspectors were given severance and responsibilities, but not the education inspectors. Our Constitution is 98, with the aim of identifying, uncovering, and resolving the problems caused by the auditing of education inspectors. Article 104 of our content. And 105. By establishing a Research Commission according to the nature of the matter, we respectfully submit to the investigation of the subject in all its dimensions) [[40s.]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Malatya]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 9) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 10) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Erzincan]] [[Hatay]] 14) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Antalya]] 16) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[Tekirdağ]] 19) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Chickening is one of the most powerful sectors of agriculture in Turkey. The number of people in our country, such as growers, bait, medicine, side industry, vendors, shipping, marketing employees, is close to two million. The sector's annual turnover is around $3 billion. Production conditions are almost the same as developed countries, but chicken consumption in the country is half the amount of consumption in developed countries. White meat consumption per capita in our country is still relatively low compared to the United States and the European Union countries. The amount of winged meat consumed annually is 47 kg in the United States; 35 kg in Canada; 28 kg in the UK; 26 kg in France; 25 kg in Spain; 17.5 kg in our country. In the winged sector, raw materials are the head of problems. While the majority of the oaths used in the winged sector are provided from corn, soy, and wheat, domestic corn production does not meet the need. So about 1 million tons of corn is imported. Almost all of Turkey's need for 2 million tonnes of soy is imported. The increase in foreign currency is directly increasing the cost of foreign currency because of an external dependence on raw materials, and the fact that the US policy of ethanol in other manufacturer countries is affecting the price of wheat, corn and other food materials, and otherwise imports are produced in countries such as soy, corn, genetically modified products (GMO) as raw materials problems in the sector. Another problem in the industry is the problems in exports. Despite the increase in white meat exports, problems have reached alarming levels for the future. In particular, addiction to the single market concerns the future of the sector (Iran, Iraq and Libyan-based export market). Especially after the AKP government took over, the white meat industry began to count, and even went backwards. Today, Brazil, which we see as rivals, is 45% of the world exports, while Turkey can't even make 1 percent of its exports. Brazil exports 500,000 tons of chicken annually to Saudi Arabia, while the United States has a large share in the Iraqi market, while Turkey's lack of say-so in these markets is worrying about the future of the sector. Compromising market diversity will be good for the sector. It is important to increase state support for one market or two countries to avoid addiction and increase exports. The European Union has 350 euros per ton and state support reached 500 dollars in other manufacturer countries, while Turkey's support, up to 26 dollars per ton until recently, has just been reduced to 76 dollars. With these supports, it is impossible to compete with other countries in the Turkish white meat industry. Around 5.5 million tons of chicken and animal feces per year must be removed from being environmentally problematic waste, and agricultural fertilizer must be transformed into economic value. Investments for the economic assessment of these wastes must be made, and the price problem must be overcome in order to ensure that the facilities producing fertilizer from these wastes can be successful in selling. For this, it would be helpful for the government to pay support for those who buy processed chicken manure, such as chemical fertilizer. On the other hand, the henhouse feeders are suffering from the fact that their state-sponsored henhouses are now on the run. Growers who benefit from the Food Agriculture and Animal Ministry's Fund for Supporting Resource Use have increased the number of henhouses. The fact that these henhouses have no construction licenses and the state has supported non-building chicken coops is a problem for growers. In short, in the event of a solution to their problems, the White Meat sector, which is ready to make a major breakthrough, is fully addressed from production to consumption, to comprehensive research of its problems and solutions, 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution. In accordance with the clauses, we'd like to submit the requirement for a parliamentary investigation. [[Balıkesir]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 3) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Malatya]] 6) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 10) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 11) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Erzincan]] 14) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] [[Antalya]] [[Antalya]] 18) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] The Constitution, 98th, 104th, in order to clarify with all its dimensions the allegations concerning TRT, created by AKP authorities in Turkey and reduced the freedom of expression and thought to the most striking device and mechanism of the new media system in our country. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully submit the opening of Parliamentary Research. [[İzmir]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Gaziantep]] 8) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 9) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] 17) Thanksgiving Güldal Mumcu [[İzmir]] 18) Reza Mahmut Çürmen [[İzmir]] 19) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 20) Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Let's go.]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] 34) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 35) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] T.C. It was established as an autonomous and neutral institution with a special law to carry out radio and television broadcasts for its government. The autonomy of the institution took a major blow to the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of 1972 and 1982. In 1993, the new constitutional regulations highlighted the autonomy and neutrality of the institution, but at 11.06.08, 5607 was the third of the Law. The organisation established by the Article has left the decision of the Governing Body of the Institution to the Council of Ministers. The consequences of editing are 58, 59, 60, 61. It was seen very clearly during the AKP governments period. The TRT has clearly violated the principle of neutrality during the AKP governments, and these violations of neutrality have at times been a clear crime and crime. The violations of non-biasy conduction of TRT have also been registered by the judiciary, and TRT has been sentenced to pay 82.557 euro in compensation to Mr. Deniz Baykal and the former President of the TRT, after the judicial procedures have been finalised for the use of their screens to defame and insult the Republican People's Party and its leader at the time. The total cost of TRT in this case alone is $87.095.I'm sure he's reached out to 'em. The TRT has eight sources of income under its own personal income law as an institution. These sources of income include radio, television, stereo, and a share of bandrol fees and electricity bills from all communication vehicles with radio and television receivers. Even income resources alone make the absolute and total autonomy and neutrality of the TRT an objective obligation. However, during the four AKP governments that span ten years, the TRT has been made an ideological device of the government. TRT's news and comments programmes are almost entirely dedicated to AKP supporters and supporters authors and producers on market conditions by astronomical fees; other than admissible applications, screens have been transformed into the government's propaganda tool. The TRT has been made the punch and centre of the AKP's policy of taking all media into its own hands. The source of this TRT means that our nation is using its revenues in a biased way, therefore morally and politically inappropriate way. The TRT has also been competing with private radio and television companies, even though it does not have its own definition of duty, and has shifted from public broadcasting to entertainment and sensational broadcasting. As an example, today, Hakan, the AKP Istanbul MP, tells Thanksgiving that his comments on his programme "Stadium" published only one day a week are 56 per month, with the exception of taxes per programme. 000TL has paid a total of 728,000 euros per year. There are serious doubts in public that all the productions and programs that TRT has made outside the institution have preferred pro-government people, companies and companies, and that the institutions and companies in question are Fason organizations. The allegations are all very grave, and it is an irrefutable responsibility for the veracity of these allegations to be investigated and illuminated by our Grand Assembly, the highest institution in the name of the Turkish Nation. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: 03.07.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors is unable to meet at a meeting of 03.07.2012 Tuesday (Today), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 28.06.2012, Ankara MP Levent Gök and his friends suggested that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be read to the President of the Grand National Assembly in a joint session of 03.07.2012 on the same day, with its talks being presented in the same session, with the aim of investigating all the dimensions of the cave-in which had occurred during the Ankara subway work and identifying those who had been negligent in the case. In favour of the proposal, Ankara MP Levent Gök. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0050par0424	Mr. President, I have been promised a parliamentary inquiry motion regarding the Ankara subway, and I salute you with love and respect. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today we're going to talk about an exemplary story of the Ankara subway. This story includes years of deception, waste of resources, leaving construction to rot, and a tragic death at the end. In Ankara, the capital, on the morning of June 22, 2012, the body of Kadir Sevim, who was buried in the area of the subway work, was reached at the subway construction site near the Ministry of National Education fifteen hours later. He reminded us once again that the body of Kadir Sevim would have to be dragged 1km under water, that we would all have to pay very, very careful attention to the subway work. I'd like to brief you on the historical development of the Ankara subway. Dear MPs, the Ankara Central Transport Plan was adopted by Ankara Metropolitan Assembly in 1994, and this plan was envisioned to be built by Ankara's development zones. The Red-Tea Road route has also been opened to population density due to the construction of a subway, where public buildings have been moved to this area. As you all know, our very important universities, such as ODTÜ, Bilkent University, D.C. University, Chankaya University, and beyond that, the Court has moved to this area, where I do not need to count its name because of our time here. Ankara's developmental current has been routed towards Eskişehir region and the population density has also been opened here. The entire ground study of the Red-Teaway subway was based on this. This project, along with the 1994 elections, was debarred along with Melih Gökçek, who was elected mayor of the city, Akay Crossroad and expanded the road to Eskişehir, and was thought to solve the traffic problem. Dear lawmakers, this error was so expensive to Ankara, that when he understood the Melik Gökçek illusion, he accepted the idea that the Ankaray line should be extended from the line that we are using as an ASTI (house) to the city council in 2000. So the decision made in 2000 to move the Ankaray line from the Dictacular to the Ashtil was decided to move further than the Willowsuş. However, after learning that this work was not a subway work and would not carry the density of the population, Melih Gökçek postponed this project for a while, and after 2001, Westtown-Sincan began construction of subway construction on the Ulus-Keciören lines. After a while, the idea of extending the idea from ACTI to the Freeway was abandoned and the construction of the Red-Teaway subway was started in a crude fashion. My dear friends, I am also a friend of yours who served as the party's Ankara Province President and then took part in the party. I've told you many times, Mr. President, don't start three or even at once; if you're going to do it, finish one line first, then go to the next one and then go to the next one. None of these suggestions have been taken into account, and three or even crude constructions have continued. However, I am opening the subways at this time before each election. I am opening the subways at this time. I am saying that Melih Gökçek, who has constantly misled the people of Ankara, took refuge in your power when he could not find the source of the funds, and your power, for the first time in 2007, has launched the process of privatisation of a capital city mayor by offering to change the law on the natural gas market, which is the most important source of the capital's EGO. However, this law stipulates that the EGO will pay off its debts and that the subway work will be done with the available resources, but the privatisation of the Dycagas, which means that it will bring $3 billion, has not happened three times, even though it has been tendered. Dear lawmakers, this law, issued in 2000, envisioned privatisation of 80 per cent of D.C.G., while 20 per cent of it was held in the hands of the municipality again. This time, when it became clear that the subway constructions, which could not move forward, could not be sold despite privatisations, had been auctioned three times, but the highest bid offered was $1 billion,610 million, and the next bids were not paid, and the subway construction was at a standstill. The Council of Ministers, on 25/10/2010, decided to take over the Ministry of Transport and transferred the construction of the subways to the Ministry of Transport, as a result of the protocol on 25/04/2011. Dear lawmakers, there is a critical question at this point: 20 per cent of the privatisation process of D.C.G., which was recently added to the bag of legislation, as well as the previous 80 per cent of the privatisation process, has been opened to privatisation of 100 per cent of D.C. Gas. Dear lawmakers, the privatisation of the 2007 D.C. gas law on the basis of the transfer of funds to the subway is no longer grounds because the government has taken over the Transport Ministry subways and costs your government $3 billion. Now, Melih Gökçek has survived $3 billion, the government has claimed responsibility, but we have entered an unpredictable process by privatizing D.C. Gas and putting the income from here in the safe of Melih Gökçek. Privatisation is highly strategic for Ankara. One thing I'd like to point out is that natural gas is a very strategic, important product for Ankara. In this natural gas law, ten years after privatisation, the purchase company has been authorized to determine the price. Ankara is now a city that uses the most expensive gas, even the most. 5.2 cents is the unit price in Ankara, 2.5-3 cents in other counties. My dear friends, in a suggestion you made the other day, you reduced this fixed -- I mean, 5.2 cents -- to eight years, and you abandoned the company's charity for determining the money in the Ankaran gas market, which was protected for ten years. With the change made, the company was authorized to set the schedule eight years later -- not ten years later. I have to say that eight years from now, there will be a huge increase in the financial losses of the Ankara people due to natural gas, and that if you live in Ankara, you will be greatly affected. My dear friends, after this cave-in on the subway occurred, the Civil Engineers' Room examined it, and they shared a very important discovery. The Civil Engineers' Room is 21 meters long, and after the collapse, my dear friends have confirmed that there are other tremors and dents. Geological engineers immediately recommend that scientific work be done here under the subway. When there was a subway dent, my dear friends, 50 trucks of stone fillings were filled into that dent. The scale of the disaster is great, my dear friends. In fact, that cave-in was going to be built right next to the Air Force's Capitol Garden, where the station moved to the Air Force because Congress wouldn't allow it. In God's name, if that cave-in had happened at a busy hour, it would have been a serious disaster. Now, we need to examine the causes of this collapse. The construction work, which has been launched for ten years, has really been a serious question of whether or not the reformation of Dikmen Creek and rainwaters has been done. The Department of Transport took over, but the takeover was just protocol? Did the Department of Transport's people, their engineers, make a discovery when they took over? What have they taken over? What did they meet under the ground? Dear friends, the information I received is very serious. We've received very serious information that this subway is not being done according to international standards. I mean, why are we closing the Inönu Boulevard? Didn't Melih Gökçek tell you that the construction was finished? If the crude construction is over, what's the reason for the block's lockdown? We're facing very critical questions. As a result, the rest of the subway's work will need a very serious study to work well. In the end, when Melih Gökçek collapsed, he left his responsibility for so many years and threw the ball to the Minister of Transport. Go and ask the Minister of Transport. My dear friends, Melik Gökçekin sir, has defeated your power. A person who's been responsible for this job for years has disappeared after the body of a man who's been in a cave-in, who's not even been able to get to the owners of the body, who's never been able to get to the owners of the Shocking Fest, who's never even paid their respects to anyone, who's thrown the ball to the Minister of Transport. Melih Skycel will cost the Minister of Transport this impropriety attitude.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0051par0441	Please, finish your words.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0050par0442	Please support our motion and ask the facts of what we live on the subway, as well as the Minister of Transport has a very important sentence: other collapses like this can be experienced. We need to know what's waiting for us. When we walk down the road, where there are dangers on the subway route, these should be shared with the public. These are serious questions, life-threatening questions for Ankarans. Ankarans have no alternative resources for transportation, my dear friends. Ankara's main arteries, as you know, are obvious, and Ankara's people must use it as transportation. Our AKP's friends must surely contribute to this research proposal, which raises such important questions. In particular, the Minister of Transport should be much more careful if Melih throws the stellar cannon to the Minister of Transport. Why, I mean, from all these years of construction to the Minister of Transport, you're responsible for him. Can you find your own chance to get out of the way? What happened on the subway, what ended, we have to investigate. Please support our motion and free the Ankarans from a danger together. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0052par0447	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Against Rize MP Nusret Bayraktar. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Flagtar.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0053par0451	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge against the group proposal made by the Republican People's Party. On this occasion, I salute you all. One of the most important needs of our country and our nation is transportation. Healthy transportation is essential to the technological development of the day, urbanization and structures in its territory in accordance with their present state. While local governments operate services such as health, environment, infrastructure, transport, we know that public transportation is even more important in major cities, such as Istanbul and Ankara, Izmir. Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality is providing funds for transportation in its own budget, in accordance with its 60 per cent budget, and Ankara Metropolitan Municipality has completed other problems, as well as other transportation-related crossroad arrangements, and Ankara has launched subway work with the rail system since 1994, but the Ministry of Transport, which has been involved on international platforms throughout the country and has been making our nation and country's faces smiley with its examples, has completed the shortcomings of subways that have been under way for many years. After seeing that the Bolu Tunnel could be built, the Bolu Tunnel, the Bolu Tunnel in other parts of our country, as is the Bolaman Tunnel in the Black Sea region; the project in Artvin, which is being done in Rize, which is being done in the Army, which is being done in Rizey, Sakarya, which is not built in the U.S.A., where both the roads and the rubber-wheel systems that are being built, are related to the railway systems in other parts of our country, and the fast train and especially the Marray project, which is being built in Artvin, but is being held in the Army, which can't be solved by the U.K.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.D.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.D.E.D.E.E.E.E.E.E. And as a matter of fact, in Ankara's subway, construction of the tunnel, the subway construction, which was scheduled for 15.5km on the Kızılay-Teayway, was being launched by GÜRŞ, but on 25 April 2011, the construction of these subway constructions from Metropolitan Municipality to the Ministry of Transport began following its construction, followed by the construction of the Transport Ministry, which began in the tender on 13/12/2011 with the Comsa Spanish company, with the Consortation Construction Turkish company's consortium. The construction of the subway on 9/2/2012, which was signed on 9 February 2012, was given to this consortium under the control of the Transport Ministry for two years, which is to be completed by the end of 2013. As studies are being conducted, he appreciates that such a complex structure, such as Inönu Boulevard, like the Akay Crossroad, has to be done a lot of technical work in the infrastructure of a region that has been going on for many years -- passing gas, crossing water, crossing water, crossing electricity lines. The contractor must, of course, take the necessary measures to do these studies. We don't think it's fair for Melih Skycel to be directly responsible for either the Ministry of Transport or the Ministry of Transport. You're tendering all your responsibilities and obligations to a contractor. Unfortunately, on June 22nd, around 6:50 a.m., a two-metre cave-in was involved in that area, and a citizen of ours, Kadir Sevim, who was buried -- from the Army Korgan district -- died. On one occasion, I pray for God's mercy to our brother Kadir Sevim, who died, and to his relatives I offer my condolences. Of course, studies in these kind of risky areas must be carefully monitored in the eyes of citizens, in the eyes of administrators, in the eyes of all of us. The Ministry of Transport has launched a study of the project by reviewing its reputation outside Turkey and Turkey, in order to ensure that these and similar projects be re-examined by healthier, more expert, exceptional people, and so on, in order to keep this and such defects at a minimum level. So far, the shape under the path of the collector's body... is the collection of the colector. What are you picking up? It's not just gas, it's water collecting, it's water collecting, it's water collecting, it's a complex environment of lines collecting electricity, it's supposed to be more useful to do this place with a 24-metre-long turnoff, so we know there's some challenges involved in an environment where such a life is going to be completed quickly. And, of course, as a person who has cost us all a life, who has hurt us all, as a person who is uncomfortable with the death of an ant, as an executive, we are all upset. After that, while renewing desires for the absence of such defects and accidents, the continuation of measures has also been seized by prosecutors and technical teams concerning those who have been negligent in the work, both technical studies are being carried out and the prosecution has begun to prosecute by making necessary investigations. As the final day of parliament, at a moment when three of the most important laws will be discussed today, with this proposal being presented to your appreciation for where the investigation will take place, not losing any more time, finishing the laws that were on the agenda as quickly as possible, in fact, not a vacation, but a shift change, a different fashion, I respect you all by going to the districts of our lawmakers, our people in the region, our voters and other activities in the 2012-2013 period, where I think it would be better for us to come up with material.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0054par0459	Thank you, Mr. Flagtar.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0055par0460	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0054par0461	Ankara MP Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh in favour of the proposal.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0055par0462	Mr. President, may I add a sentence?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0054par0463	Excuse me, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0055par0464	Mr. President, may I have a word?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0054par0465	Tell me.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0055par0466	Now I, of course, have listened to the valuable speaker. I mean, he tried to explain that it wasn't very important, but Mr. Cemil Cicek, in his speech when he was being transferred to the Ministry of Transport protocol, admitted that the cost taken by the Ankara subway and the Ministry of Transport was one-seventh of the 2011 investment programme. I mean, it's a huge amount of money, and I think an environment where the Minister of Transport is concerned that there might be a dent somewhere else, as Mr. Speaker puts it, should be discussed. I think there's more to talk about. The Ankarans are nervous. Of course, Mr. Speaker is not from Ankara, but I would like it if the Ankara MPs spoke here.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0054par0467	Point taken, Mr. Sky. It's on the record, thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0055par0468	Now, he may not have experienced the sensitivity of the Ankarans, but we go through it every day, and it's a very important matter. So the trivialization of the issue is never acceptable. Again, at the mercy of the AKP Group, I leave it to your conscience.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0054par0470	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Here you go, Mr. Turkesh.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0056par0473	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favour of Mr. Levent Gök and his friends' motion to investigate the situation of the sink in the Ankara subway and the Ankara subway. I salute you all. First, I'll start by referring to Mr. Bayraktar's speech. Mr. Bayraktar made a speech trying not to mention Ankara.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0057par0475	I did, I did.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0056par0476	It was a very accurate speech because Ankara subways, the duration of the Ankara subways from the beginning, and the situation of this Kızılay-Tayway subway was a very untenable issue for someone like you who knows local governments. In that regard, I must say, I find your speech to be a remarkable success in your political experience.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0057par0477	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0056par0478	Sir, Albert Einstein said we can't solve problems with the heads that produce them. So if a problem is creating a head, it's impossible for the same head to find its solution. Such are the conditions we are in Ankara. Dear MPs, Ankara is unclaimed. The AKP's government is trying to evacuate Ankara's bureaucracy from Ankara, while Ankara, on the other hand, is a city with too many problems to take care of and fit for a capital. The city does not have a master's plan -- Mr. Gök has just stated -- the city coincidentally continues on the southwest coast as both the buildings of the bureaucracy and its settlements. No issue of real interest is discussed in Ankara concerning Ankara. There has never been a platform in Ankara where Ankara's real problems are discussed. In Ankara, usually paints, colors, airport roads, building exterior platings, or, if a town municipality belongs to another party, Mr. Gökçek is the city of Çankaya -- he always prefers to engage with them -- he likes to have some empty discussions with them -- but in reality, how is it that Ankara is developing in a city where Ankara lives every day and goes to work, where he goes to work, where he goes to work? We have had many problems in Ankara in a short period of time. There was a gas explosion, New Year's Eve. I'm afraid the city's officials have lowered the level of blame for the children who were killed in that explosion. There was only one year in organized industry -- gas explosions. These came up for the first week or two, and no one followed up on them. And finally, in the middle of the city, when you left our Turkish Grand National Assembly, a man walking 100 to 150 paces away, the sidewalk collapsed, and unfortunately his funeral was found 1 and a half kilometers away. Congressmans, if we're not going to investigate this, if we're not going to talk about it, what in God's name are we going to talk about? So sometimes when a party from the opposition gives a motion, you try to object because your own agenda is off, but put your hand on your conscience, so where do we expect to expect the House to collapse? An incident that took place 100-150 meters ahead of the House, it must be investigated. What's the city doing? I'm not going to go back to them just now, Mr. Sky, because he's given them figures on the history of these subways and the costs of these subways, but I just want to give them a sample or two. Now, at first, this is what they call a light system. Ankaray started in 1992, finished in 1996, finished in four years. The Red-Bisticent began in 1993, finished in 1997, in four years. We need to question a subway system that has started in 2002, which has only eaten money for ten years, and has never been done, and we need to investigate the underlying reasons. I think it would be a betrayal if we didn't look at it and look away, that we're all living, that we're all living here, and our capital city is here. What's the city doing anyway? They are also engaged in annual or summer sidewalk renovations. The tenders and sidewalks are being renovated to the supporters of Ankara, and this is the great municipal service. And then about a week before school starts, the asphalt starts, so the returnees can see who did it, so they can figure out who did it. In a place where there's so much confusion, Mr. Gök and his friends have given us this congressional motion to investigate, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0058par0489	Thank you, Mr. Turkesh. Against you, Mr. Tan. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0059par0492	Mr. President, lawmakers, business accidents in Turkey are on the agenda almost every semester, but unfortunately, it doesn't change anything. There's another lecture going on here, and as a result, there's no serious study of how these business accidents can be reduced to normal levels around the world. I've watched the speakers before me very carefully. For example, our friend, who spoke on behalf of the EC PARTY, explained a process, so he explained how these investments, especially the infrastructure and subway construction, were transferred to the Ministry of Transport. Now there is no objection to these matters, whether it is done by anyone, whether it is the Ministry of Transport, whether it is done by municipalities, whether it is from the EC PARTY or from another municipality. The main issue is, why is Turkey so far above what the world considers reasonable in business accidents, and why is it so? That's what's being discussed. And what can be done about it, what measures can be taken, what laws can be passed, that's what we need to discuss here. Now, I'd like to give you a few examples of these accidents. It's just been said again. For example, there was a huge gas explosion in Ankara on New Year's Eve. Again, we have a disaster of Tuzla shipyards in Istanbul. We've been talking about accidents that have happened at this shipyard almost every month for the last ten years, and there have been similar statements all the time, so there are required investigations, investigations, criminal proceedings, legal proceedings on the responsible ones, and judicial investigations continue. I'm afraid these accidents don't diminish. Now, what we're talking about here is not how these courthouse mechanisms work, what they are, where they go, how they work; what needs to be done today about these business accidents, what measures need to be taken, and what practices need to be done to be implemented, what we need to talk about and what we need to talk about today. It's like I said, the salt shipyards have been here many times, but unfortunately, a proper investigation from the Parliament, not even a commission has been able to go here and come up with a full-fledged result. There are also subway work in Istanbul, subway work in Ankara. The Galata bridges, including the Un Capacity Bridge, have maintenance work on the bridges, including the Old Galata Bridge, and the Bosporus bridges in Istanbul have maintenance studies, and there are hundreds of business accidents during a period of several years when you take the sum of them. Now, the most obvious was a terrible accident in the middle of Ankara, right under the nose of parliament. So, this accident... this road just collapsed? This dent just happened out of the blue? Why were the reminders of the Geology Room not taken into account before this? Why were the underground maps, soil properties of these routes not introduced in advance with proper detection, experiments, tests, or if you're saying they were discovered, why wasn't they done? That's the point of discussion. We'll talk again today if we don't get the proper measurements and criteria on these issues about general security, and after a while, the same accident will occur again in another place, God forbid. It's in today's papers, almost all of them. The head of the worker who was crushed in a rescue accident is being ripped off by the ladle. With the wrong practices, with the wrong rescues, when you're being rescued, when you're being saved, when you're being saved, you die. Of course, we don't claim that they killed this on purpose, and that's why the ladle operator had already intended this worker, and that's why he did it. But friends, the result is important. We're not the only ones making these roads, subways, canals, bridges all over the world, not just Turkey, but all over the world, these projects are being conducted, but there are statistics about these business accidents, there are numbers. When we put these things in front of us, we're almost, in the world, the word may be an example of black humor, but we're champions, we're up front. That's what we can't accept, don't admit, don't admit. These rates have to be reduced to reasonable levels, and if possible, it needs to be reset, of course, that's the main goal, reset. No death can be seen as legitimate or reasonable, but after all the measures have been taken, and after all the deaths have been taken, there is another way to be compensated. We can't afford any of this. Our other criticism is that these municipalities, especially the AK PARTY, are working hard from the construction practices of municipalities held by municipalities to investments. I mean, there's been a lot of hard work going on, but what's the beginning of this work, what's the end, what's the terminus, what are the measures taken, what's the order? It's the right method to put on a job, put on it fast, put on it fast, get the result, of course, but it's the same thing to say, "Let's do it fast, let's do it quick, let's do it quick, let's do it quick, let's do it quick, let's do it quick, let's do it quick, let's do it quick, let's do it fast, let's not stop these deaths." Dear friends, another double standard is the support these municipalities receive in these investments. I've given a question proposal to the Treasury Department, you know, the state has bail for municipalities to use foreign loans, and without that kind of bond, there's no such investments, and loans can't be taken. I asked two clear questions: How much foreign loans did Ankara Metropolitan Municipality receive with all its institutions, its institutions and its participations, and how much did it take from Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality? The question is clear. Thank God, a clear answer has come to these questions as long as they haven't been in a long time. You know what the number is, guys? The amount of treasure-backed loans used by Ankara City has been $1 billion 450 million. How much foreign loan does Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality use? $32 million. Ankara, as a population four times the size of Diyarbakır, according to the address-based population register system, is about four times the size of the population, not even four times the size of the population, so let's say there's a magnitude of about 3.7, let's say four. Ankara is 4 times the size of Diyarbakır, but the amount of credit it uses is 453 times the amount. I repeat, Ankara is approximately 4 times the size of Diyarbakir, but the loan it uses is 453 times as much as the Treasury-backed foreign loan used by Diyarbakır. Here's another injustice and another injustice. Because while these business accidents are happening, unfortunately, some of our executives, some of our politicians, are quite indistinguishable, what should we do, brother? Well, that's how much work we do, and that's how many accidents happen by themselves. We don't intend to kill anyone either. This expression, my dear friends, is an indecisive expression, an irresponsible expression. You do a lot of work, one. How do you do it? So, in the middle, when Diyarbakır is given 1, Ankara is given 453, I say these foreign loans again, these are the figures the Finance Ministry has given us. And second of all, just because I do a lot of work doesn't mean people should die, it's not possible. As a result, what must be done is that whatever work is done, one must be distributed fairly to Diyarbakir (Diyarbakir) and Tripoli (Sabzon) and Burma (Bursah) and Konya (Kanyırıri) and Edirne (Edirne) and Hakkari (Hakkari) and Adana (Adana) and Samsun (Sinnah). Two, these things must be done properly, all geological analysis of projects, topographical measurements, excavations, measures, all of these, all of which, first of all, are put ahead of each of the world's civil engineering and construction criteria, in line with job safety, and must be carried out with these regulations. So it's not a solution if you stack up and don't take any precautions after that. So we're asking that this motion be taken into consideration, and we're saying we'll vote positive. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0060par0503	Thank you, Mr. Tan. Mr. Flagtar, come in.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0061par0505	Thank you, Mr. President. Criticizing that I should take a statement on the matter, Mr. Gök, I'm not from Ankara, but as Ankara MP, they claimed that someone else should speak against or in favour of the issue. It is not necessary to be an Ankara MP to discuss such an important matter. I'm a three-term MP, and I live in Ankara, and I'm as much a technical employee as the Ankara MPs believe that I should share my responsibility, my knowledge, and events. However, in a ten-minute process, it is not possible to discuss all the details of the matter, but I have made a promise that it is not right that the proposal should be raised today and that we will vote against the proposal for it. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0062par0509	Thank you, Mr. Flagtar. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. There is a direct motion to be taken into consideration according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and processed and then submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since my main law proposal (2/147) is not discussed within 45 days in the commission, I respectfully submit that it is necessary to take the matter directly into consideration under Article 37 of the Civil Code. As the bidder, Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt. Here you go, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0063par0522	Mr. President, dear friends, I have made a commitment to my amendment to the 2933 Medal and Engagement Act. I salute you all. Dear friends, we all know that Korean martyrs have medals or that our government has awarded medals. Isn't that right? You'd think so. But it's not like that, our state didn't give medals to Korean martyrs, our state didn't give medals to Cypriot martyrs, the Koreans and the United Nations did. In that sense, in my proposal for the law, I propose that both the Korean veterans and the Cypriot veterans give the state a medal. In that sense, I hope that this law proposal will be accepted. But because my time is short, dear friends, I am the MP of Ardahan, the neighbour of Armenia and Georgia. There's a terrible migration in our region. Ardahan, a population of 176,000 people in 1992, is now down to 98 thousand, so the policies of governments and state have cleared the area, and he wants our territory. Now, unfortunately, the AKP government has forced the region to migrate by shutting down prisons, military branches, courthouses. He's in a position where right now, in our town, people are loading trucks and migrating into big cities. It's not enough to go mad, it's also in the districts of Kars, Akyaka, Digor, Susuz and Selim. Now, I want the courts returned to our strategically important counties. If the courts aren't given and people aren't there, our people, who have been under Russian occupation for forty-three years, who have given hundreds of martyrs, will become more and more veterans. In that sense, I, as the district MP, ask the AKP people, I ask the Minister of Justice, I ask the Prime Minister. Mad Courthouse, Akyaka Courthouse, Digor, Susuz and Selim Courthouses, our court offices on the border, shall be reviewed again, and these places shall be restored to the courts. The military departments are up, the prisons are down. We don't have a doctor, we don't have a teacher. Dear friends, there are eight months of snow and winter in the region. It's impossible for us to stay in that area in such a position. There's no way for people to stay in that area. He can't get his kid to read, he can't get his patient treated, so where does this end up? And you closed the courthouses. In that sense, I beg you, as a member of that region, as a member of parliament in that region, I ask you: I want our strategically important, strategically moving provinces to be fully developed and given back to the courts there. I'm rioting. I'm protesting. I'm just saying, if the AKP doesn't do this thing, I'm gonna go on strike in Congress, and I'm gonna riot, and I'm gonna protest you by taking off my jacket, and I'm gonna take off my tie. I'm protesting everything.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0064par0532	Oh, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0063par0533	Yeah, well, you don't understand it any other way. That's how you know. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Yeah, I want our courthouse back, guys.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0064par0537	Mr. Reminder, Mr. Reminder...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0065par0538	You have no self - respect, no respect for us; you have no respect for the people's stand.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0063par0539	If not, there will be a major migration in the area.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0064par0540	Mr. Öğüt, I beg you very much.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0063par0541	This migration will tear Turkey apart, and Turkey will try to give its territory to Armenia. That's why I'm protesting.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0064par0543	Mr. Öpün, please... this is not in the court of the House.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0063par0544	You wouldn't understand otherwise.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0064par0545	Please, Mr. Öğüt, please take your seat. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] As a member of parliament, Adana MP Umit Özgişmiş. Here you go, Mr. Ozgimi.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0066par0550	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to begin with, first for this land, by giving my regards to the martyrs who gave their lives for the honor of this land, and by asking God's mercy to the veterans who fought and lost their lives for it, and by giving my regards to our veterans and veterans who were left behind. I also bow to the honorable memory of all patriots who have lost their lives, paid the price, to protect the honor of this land, to prevent the plunder of these lands, even though it is not within the law. (HPP) In this sense, I would like to say that we will always support the medals that will be given to our families and veterans who have lost their lives, and the legal provisions that will make their lives easier, as Republican People's Party. But when the opportunity comes, I'd like to express my concern, dear friends. If that is the case with the recent AKP's new Ottomanist, Enver Paşacı, spreader, subcontractor and adventurer foreign policy, and at this rate, if we fight a friendly country, in the coming period, we will need to make a few rigs of medals to hand out medals, to produce medals. Look, lately, there's been a policy about Syria, about lying all the time. We can fool our people inside, but we can't fool anyone in the world. As someone who knows Syria very well, I'll tell you some facts: It is said that at Syria, right now, the Syrian people are fighting for freedom and there is a civil war. This is the first lie. First, as in all the world, there is more democracy and more desire for freedom among the Syrian people, but there is no civil war going on there now; there is only internal bleeding created by agents, the Americans, the UK, Israel, and the agents triggered by Turkey, and there is only fight in certain areas in Syria, near the border of Turkey, in Hummus Laila and Israel, and nowhere else, there is no civil war; it is an internal war; it is an internal bleeding. There, those who flee from persecution seek refuge in Turkey. They are constantly told lies. There's no escaping persecution from there. There are things promised to those who come from Turkey, and there are about 30,000 people coming here for them. If they were fleeing persecution, 15,000 of them wouldn't have come back. There is another lie: these are escaping persecution, so we have to protect them. Dear friends, if they run from persecution, if they run from fire, you take them, you place them in the interiors of Turkey; you place them in Adana, Mersin, Kırşşehir, and Konya. If they're running from persecution, instead of taking them out of gun range, you don't put them in the border zone, you don't put them in the zero zone at the border. There are two reasons: 1) Settled among those people, fed by Turkey, trained by terrorists, who go from time to time and run away, losing themselves among them. 2) Due to international agreements, Syria sets it up in the border area to consider a cause of war if it follows those terrorists across the border. This is another lie. Dear friends, Mr. Omar Çelik has said that Lazkiyeh was bombed from this bench, which is another lie. Lazkiya was never bombed. Lazkiye is the land of Bezar Assad. If you go north from the centre of Lazkiye, the region of Ceble, its relatives; if you go 10 kilometers north, its own village. There, too, is an operation against agents who went there to provoke them because the Palestinians were Sunni in the area where the Palestinians were placed, and this operation was done by sea, and no one was killed there except the terrorists. Omar Çelik asks here, he says: "Go to the election." We said, "They didn't go." The question is, politically, what do you care? The other side is an independent country, whether it goes to the election or not. Hafiz Assad died and handed over Syria to you? Or are there elections in countries like Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, where you co-operate today in Syria, where you co-operate to overthrow the government of Bezar Assad, and you try to bring democracy with them? That's another lie. Dear friends, in the matter of the plane crash, the Turkish people are being lied to again, but everything in the world is now valid and real. Really, if you want to see where the plane was dropped, where it was shot down, you set up a delegation here, and you go and you see the people in the town of Simple on the coast of Lazkye.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0067par0562	Please complete your promise.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0068par0563	You don't believe in radar?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0066par0564	Dear friends, go, there, send the press, or you go yourself, see the people of Simple Town one by one.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0069par0565	Are you a spokesman for Syria?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0066par0566	Our plane has been flown over the town of Simple, very slowly, almost to lick the roofs of the houses, and it has been shot down.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0069par0567	Did Syria give you a spokesman? You've come to this House and you're talking.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0066par0568	That's another lie. If we're trying our own radar system there, then instead of Syria, you can send it to Kandil, or you can go and try it on the Cyprus side. But if you're testing Syria's defence system, it's like a Turkish person lighting matches to check if there's a tube leak in the kitchen, as a matter of fact, all charisma has been drawn. Dear friends, look, there's an unaccounted, bookless departure here, and there's a negotiation on the blood of our children for nothing. But I'm telling you very clearly, we're going to stop this dirty war. I, the Hopeful, will plead a conscientious rejection if such a war arises. Thirty-five years ago, we were shouting in the streets of Ankara, and today I am sincerely shouting again...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0070par0571	Thank you, Mr. Ozgim.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0066par0572	Long live the brotherhood of the people, bloody imperialism and its native collaborators!
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0070par0574	The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0071par0575	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0070par0576	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is enough of a decision, there is not enough, the motion is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0072par0581	Mr. President, of course, this is the people's stand. The people's stand is the voice of the people. Mr. Ensar, who spoke earlier about this, is a hardworking MP, a zealous congressman, but I wanted to say that we don't adopt the position of parliament as a group about turning its platform into an instrument of certain actions. Mr. ÖmütEST has important efforts to address the problems of the country, but I wanted to share with you on this occasion that it is unacceptable to use the council bench for such an action. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0070par0583	Thank you, Mr. Vural. So we pointed out that we're condemning it. Here you go, Mr. Dal.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0073par0586	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to point out that I don't approve of Mr. Ensar Öğümün's conduct in Parliament. Second: There is a massacre in Syria. We can watch this live from the Church, because even last night, Azaz district of Syria was heavily bombarded, and early in the morning, citizens were attacked by bombs and shrapnel. There's no massacre there. It's not true to say. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit01spe0074par0590	Thank you, Mr. Dal. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0074par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 131st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the negotiations of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and Proposal on the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which is ranked in the first place, 156 rows. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the second place, Manisa MP Recai Berber and Bartın MP Yilmaz Tunç and 6 MPs; The Proposal of Law to Change Some Laws; the Order of the Republican People's Party Group; Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi of the Ministry of National Education; the Proposal of the Law on the Organization and Jobs of the Ministry of Education; the Proposal of Law on the Law on the Law, the Minister of Justice, Balık MP Namık Havutçççça; and the Proposition of Non-Aditable Teachers for Free Womens and the Law of State Officers of Public Education; We shall underline its Law on the Orders and the Orders of Public Education Act; We shall underline its Committee and Underlines of Ministerships and Ministerships of Ministerships of Ministership; the Minister of Minister of Minister of Ministership and Ministers of Ministers and Ministers of Ministers of Education. The commission and the government are in place. According to Article 91 of the Civil Charter, the 126 (Preparation of 29/6/2012), the third part of the proposal was addressed on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Now, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the Secret belongs to Sakık. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0075par0016	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Yes, Congress is having its last days. Bag law, I wish, today ends tomorrow, and that tension will end as soon as possible. In this bag of legislation, there are new regulations for both teachers and health and police, of course. For example, the ruling party, especially Mr. Prime Minister, has made a commitment to the public when they founded the AKP. At his election rally in Izmit, 2002, he says: "Ya, why is this KPSS set up for national education, for teachers?" When we are in power, we will eliminate a whole of them. And again, in 2002, when he spoke in Istanbul, many of our young people, especially our teachers, became unemployed. The country's education has collapsed, the country's schools have been shut down. Even the schools at the center are having serious problems with the teacher, but hopefully, when we're in power, the teachers will make their preparations the day the school's finished, and the next day they'll start with a love of duty. He's saying, "Hey, While the unappointed teachers were in the 1970s in 2002, the number was around 350,000 in 2011, according to Education-Sen data. This shows us: Politicians make promises to the people, but when they are in power, they enter into Ankara's command, whatever it is Ankara's order. Now, today, about these teachers, yes, there is a serious problem, which needs to be fixed. Again, our Deputy Director of the Group has an answer to a question motion. Right now, the answer to Mr. Pervin Buldan's question motion is: ▪ What we need now is 123,783, but this number is about 30, 40,000. Again, we see together how much national education needs this. In other words, our Minister of National Education has a saying against opposition teachers, particularly those who do not like this system, saying: "Those who don't like it can leave, they can resign. I don't like the system, I propose an alternative system against this system, but the statements of our Minister who doesn't like it can go away. It's not enough, we've already witnessed how we witnessed operations related to education and KESK, as well as how many of our fellow teachers were arrested. Now, you're either going to have everyone who's opposed arrested or you're going to come back, and those who don't like it will go away. (x) 302 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 125th Unification Charter, dated 27/6/2012. Look, a large part of the opponents are being tried in Istanbul today under the name of the KCK operation, and they want to defend in Istanbul yesterday and today in the main language, the judges are returning, no, you can't defend in the native language. And the inside is being attacked with planks, and the defense protests and leaves. Now, in this bag of legislation, could it not have taken steps to free this language? So you couldn't have included in this bag the language of the people you live with, the people you call brothers and sisters? You could, but with freedoms, I'm afraid you're failing in that regard. Now, new cops will be picked up. We all saw how the cops were taken. In fact, we know that some of the officers are very unsuccessful when they're being taken, and 200 students have a score of less than 18 points or less than 20 points, but you're getting them with a change. And these cops will keep the peace, these cops will keep us safe! And we've seen these cops lately, like how they've been beating up a citizen in Istanbul. What was the citizen's crime? You're being lynched in front of his family because he spoke Kurdish, and then you turn around, and you say, "Why are these Kurds reacting to us, to the system? Now, if you bring in students who don't deserve it, you make them cops, you make them uneducated people, and you bring in people who have only been sharpened by hostility against Kurds, then, of course, that's what you'll find in return. For him, there's nothing in this bag of legislation about freedom, about democracy. I, our Minister of Health, am here to thank him a hundred times. In certain matters, yes, we also know that serious steps have been taken. We'll call it injustice, but if something good is done, we'll say yes. I have also witnessed important work on the Ministry of Health from my own knowledge, all four sides of Turkey. I saw him here two nights ago. I mean, I've seen our Minister of Health's sensitivity. One of our citizens was missing four fingers. At night, they mobilized all available facilities and four or five hospitals and private planes were activated. Now, this is the really smiling face of Turkey. I'll take these. As long as that happens, we stand by the right policy. But on the other hand, if most of your policies are terrorizing people, we should review them together. Look, we've all witnessed what's been going on lately. So this judicial package that passed here two days ago was actually a sign of how much we were exposed to illegality in this country, and as the debates and talks began here, we saw together how much the ruling party's insufferability towards this opposition. Now, he's bringing opposition. Of course, if you're punishing Redgulfor 11 years because of a piece of ass, the opposition will make it sound that way. If you're going to judge your opponents in special authority courts, that's what the opposition will react to, but when those reactions occur, you have no right to return with your numerical majority and discipline the opposition with lynching culture. No one gives you that authority. It may be your numerical majority, but the opposition has to take a stand against this lawlessness. You treat everyone who goes out on the street with democratic rights demands like terrorists, you declare everyone a terrorist, and you try to silence everyone by arresting them. So we turn to you and ask you, is it not the shame of Parliament that so many people are in there, so many of these people are victims, and most of these people are in there because of an explanation they've made, that they can't be liberated? You, from time to time, are taking tests at certain institutions, and especially recently, tests have been taken on mullahs, imams, and you can be sure that all of the imams turn around and say what? They say they didn't take anyone but their own followers. A test came out of all the trials by excusing us. We also discussed it with the authorities. It's no use to be a partisan in this business. You, yes, have privatized certain institutions, so you have brought your own staff because of privatisation at many points in health care. There's no right here. So no one in the provinces is really hiring people from security to cleanup without the approval of the party's organization one by one. There's no right here, there's only partying. I think you need to act with a sense of justice to get rid of them quickly, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0076par0033	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Izmir MP Rahmi is the Türeli of Love. Here you go, Mr. Türeli.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0077par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the opinion of the Republican People's Party over the third chapter of Law Proposal 302. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, I would like to use my speech today to express my views on the law-making and technique of our great Parliament through this proposal of law, which is also called the law. But first, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to read a poem in harmony with what I'm about to say. From the poet Edip Candor, the name "Masa" is the name of the Masa. He put his keys on the table, He put flowers in the copper bowl, And puts forth his milk and his eggs, He put the light from the window, The bike voice, the sound of your voice, He put the softness of bread and air. He put his mind to it, Then He placed it. He put them on the table. Three times three is nine. The guy put nine on the table. By the window, by the sky, He lay down and put eternity on the table. He wanted to have a beer for a couple of days. He put beer on the table. And gave him sleep, and kept him awake, He put his food on, his hunger on. He didn't ask me if I was a burden. He kept shaking a couple of times, The man or my father put it there. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, when this bag of laws came before us, I remembered this beautiful poem by Edip Cansever, which the table says is a table. We can't figure out what this bag is. The bag is the law -- let's say, dear friends -- it's been a long time, but there's no such thing as a different kind of law, not a bag of laws, dear friends. I'm not upset, I'm counting, as it came from the General Assembly -- I'm not saying the additions and the additions to this department -- there are 36 amendments to the law, my friends. When we look at the laws referred to by the law, the number will rise to 52, and now the number will rise to a much higher number in the motions. What's in it? There's everything in it, dear friends, from the Election Law to the energy markets, from TÜBITAK to the ESYM, to the Court, to the Unemployment Fund, to the criminal record, to the criminal record, to the table, as Edip Cansever said, what a bag! What kind of bag is that? Dear friends, this proposal of the law, I have just told you, involves many different subjects. Well, then, what are you waiting for? This is especially expected to be studied in detail in commissions, and, as a result, the Plan and Budget Commission came as its original commission, and they went to six commissions as a subcommittee. What commissions did he go to? I'll tell you: the Justice Commission, the Constitutional Commission, the Interior Commission, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission, the Health, Family, Labor and Social Affairs Commission and Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission. Well, have they been seen in any of these? No. Any reports from these? No. In Plan and Budget, well, the subcommittee was set up, different views were taken, and this was shaped in this direction? No. We've said so much, dear friends, that this bag has one and two basic issues in the law, and one: directly, there are certain issues that have no integrity in it, not related to the bag, which are particularly in the field of duty of other commissions, for example, SNSM, why are we discussing this here? Take this to the relevant commissions; you didn't do it, so wait for the opinion of the commissions there. There was no review from any of the commissions, and the Plan and Budget Commission did not set up a subcommittee, so it was discussed quickly, and it went away. Now, I think that's a very serious issue of criticism. Again, another thing: why is this bag of laws brought before us as a law, not as a bill? Dear friends, this has become a habit of late. So, of course, as lawmakers, we can all make a law proposal, no objection, natural. But it's so important that we expect a law that covers so many different issues to come not as an offer, but as a bill. Because if he comes as a bill, it's the serious involvement of bureaucracy in the preparation process on this issue, dear friends. There's Law 5018. According to this, the regulatory effect analysis needs to be done. So what does it bring, financially, in other ways, economic, social; don't we need to know that, dear friends? But none of this happens when it comes as an offer from the law. However, we have a chance to benefit from the experience of bureaucracy, the savings, and we can do that. And then there's another thing: not just red tape, but friends, professional rooms, organizations, NGOs. Why don't we take advantage of the thought of it, and it's persistently, in the same way, over and over again, coming at us as an offer, and there's no way to understand it. Another thing, dear friends: why are we meeting as the basic law of bag law? Now I've made a promise on chapter three. The third part is assumed to have a integrity under normal circumstances. That's the basic law of negotiation, my friends. So in the fundamental law, we're going to have something that brings similar issues together. So it could be about education, it could be about health, we don't necessarily call it one law, but there's a certain issue of integrity. There's no such thing here, there's a lot of different stuff. Now, which one should I talk about in chapter three, and which one shall I take? It's not over. On top of that, in such a process, it's impossible to finish with this interview anyway. Look, we're going to move on to the materials, they can all be submitted to the highest bidders, they can be discussed on the motions. However, they need to be discussed very seriously. If a bag of laws came in, at least not as a basic law, we'd wait for the General Assembly to have debates on every clause, not on commissions, to sort of fill that gap, but there's no such thing. Now, of course, on the other hand, we're looking at the fact that this bag is the basic law that comes before us in this way -- for once, this is the method and technique of making laws, as well as the value of the Turkish National Assembly. Look, there are regulations in the Civil Code on how to prepare the basic law, how to come before us. I'll read to you one of the people there, and it says: "It is imperative that you maintain integrity and connections between matter. " Dear friends, does this have such integrity? Is there a wholeness of the area he's setting up? Are there links between the substances? No. There's a clause about one thing, it's over, and then there's another law on another matter. We've got a patch like this in front of us. Now, these are important. Of course, we always say that in democracy, content is important, it's important, but it's also important, but it's also important that we as lawmakers are here to make laws, and we need to do it in the best way, by identifying the real needs, by identifying the problems, and by making a compromise on how to fix them, but unfortunately, we don't. We didn't do that yesterday, and we didn't do that the other days. All the laws come and go as they came, because there are so many of them, dear friends, the AKP. There are motions coming in here, all the motions you've made, again, most of the time, without a debate on the commission. What are our motions here, dear friends? Democracy is not a dictatorship of the majority. Dear friends, democracy is a compromise regime. Aren't we constructive in the Plan and Budget Commission? We're in a constructive position. We all want this country to be the best of our country, the best of our country, and we want this country's problems to be identified correctly, and we want them to develop the right solution proposals, but to do that, we need to compromise, dear friends, we need to argue. I think it's important for the commissions and for the General Assembly to create a compromise environment. I just don't think it's important for the health of the laws we're doing, but on the other hand, I think it's important for the prestige of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dear friends. Everyone's looking at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Our work within the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is closely monitored by the entire community, by the public. And when I look at it from that angle, as I just said, we have a lot of criticism of both the procedure and the shape and the nature and the content, but we see that our criticism is not being fulfilled, it is not being considered. This isn't the right way, dear friends. I'd like to point that out here. I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0078par0084	Thank you, Mr. Türeli. In the name of his personal name, Bursa MP Ilhan Demiröz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0079par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of myself on the matter of the law of 302 rows. I salute you all with respect and love. My dear friend before me explained his views on the bag of law very well. Indeed, we all find it difficult to understand what is intended by this bag of legislation and what is being brought in. For example, 3/6/2011 dates and Articles shall be changed a year later, even though Science, Industry and Technology Ministry No. 635 has a Code of Law on Agency and Missions. For example, there are changes about the eradication of the new decontamination of organised industrial zones, the adoption of publicisation and public interest decisions in industrial areas, and the adoption of this ministry to this general administration. We're not opposed to the establishment of organized industrial areas, but we think that the chosen areas should be very well chosen. And I'd like to point out right away that these kinds of improper laws don't just happen now, until the beginning of this government. For example, I'd like to talk to him about Cargill, which is sort of an identical name. Cargill is a factory that produces 212,240 square metres of starch-based sugar, established within first-class farmland in Bursa. Friends, what is the problem with this? The problem with this is this: Once this factory was first built, this was first-class farmland. Two, he had to consume 6,000 tons of water a day. Three, unfortunately, in the Orhangazi region, corn was not produced, it was supposed to be brought from other regions, and yet, despite the opposition of all NGOs, Cargill was established here and even established in 2004 as one of the factories that was the subject of the first agenda between Bush (P.M.) and Mr. Prime Minister. What we want to say here is that you can build a factory that produces starch-based sugar, but that's about it, when you look at European countries, the production of starch-based sugar is 2%, but we have 10%. If you look at the numbers from 2006 to 2006, we can see that the figures are up to 20 per cent by the Council of Ministers' decision -- or by the decision of the Council of Ministers -- that is, 10 per cent -- by the decision of the Council of Ministers of Ministers of the Council of Ministers. Dear friends, what we'd like to talk about here is that today, about these issues that you took out of the bag, the Constitution was also violated for Cargill years ago. I'd like to brief you on the amount of time I have on how to chew. For this factory, founded on Orhangazi farmland, all professional rooms, NGOs went to trial and decided to stop the execution. When the decision was made to stop the execution, the US President Bush had come in on the matter, Mr. Prime Minister. What happened when it came on? This time they said: let's give him some time, let's put a five-dollar deposit on his square meter, and then let's do this process and make Cargill normal. But let's see if Cargill didn't deposit that 5 TL, he declared it a private industrial zone for himself. When this came back from the trial, dear friends again issued a special law on Cargill, making a deposit of 5 TL, and only a certain portion of it. For the sake of argument, the beginnings of the issues laid out in this bag of legislation have come from those times, but we want this law to be known to all of us, that it is necessary for all of us. I'd like to express that the farmland must be protected. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you with respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0080par0098	Thank you, Mr. Irony. On behalf of him, Adana MP Mehmet Şükrü Erdinç. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Erdinç.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0081par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a personal pledge on the third chapter of Law Proposal 302. I hereby salute your high council. The proposal for the law that we're talking about includes very important regulations for our country and our nation. I'd like to briefly discuss a few of these. The drafting of the examination papers, protection, transport of the SNSM for the examination services with the proposal of the law is intended to ensure the safety of the test, and to ensure that the work is done at a lower cost, provided that it is carried out by a public company. However, other signal jamming and similar devices will be used in the building before the examination and during the examination, thus providing security. The proposed law has to do with the appointment of teachers and police officers in Articles 55 and 56. As it is known in Article 22 of the Budget Law, there can be an open appointment, or transfer from other public administration institutions, to the number of officers who left after retirement, death, resignation, and transfer in 2011. The restrictions on appointments for 2012 have been made. At the same time, it is important to have a broad education system in the new era and to ensure that more useful information is given to our students effectively. The proposal stipulates that the budget law shall not be subject to the restrictions placed in the Budget Law on the appointment of staff assigned to the Ministry of National Education and that 30,000 teaching staffs be violated to the Ministry of National Education. Dear lawmakers, the main duty of the state is to ensure that citizens live a peaceful, peaceful life free of fear and anxiety. In this case, the biggest responsibility for the protection of public order, security, security and general morality, the taking of measures necessary to prevent crime from being committed, the capture of criminals, and the fight against any crime falls to our law enforcement agency. As it is known, criminal acts of conduct are at the head of crimes that disturb the peace of society and cause fear and anxiety. In this scope, the development and strengthening of the police's fight against law enforcement crimes must be increased as part of the Society Support Police Project, which aims to find appropriate solutions to problems with security teams and lightning teams active in the field to prevent crimes committed in densely populated areas. The proposal envisions the restitution of police officers staffs needed at the Police Headquarters. A fiscal pardon is being made for those studying in military schools at all levels and training in the police force. Dear lawmakers, under Article 2 of the Law on Social Aid and Solidarity, our poor and needy citizens are only benefiting from aid, provided they are not subject to law-run social security agencies and do not receive income from these organisations. With the offer, even if they have social security, the income per household can also be made available to our needy citizens, who are less than 1/3 of the minimum wage. Finally, I will briefly mention the change in Law No. 5378, which is speculative in public, and complete my words. The law proposal we're talking about gives the Ministry of the Family a year to complete the shortcomings of law related to our disabled citizens number 5378, to set the standards that are available to public institutions and organisations, all roads, sidewalks, crosswalks, open and green areas and all public transportation vehicles that are suitable for the accessibility of disabled citizens. In addition, the control mechanism, which is lacking in Law 5378, is brought in. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0082par0114	Thank you, Mr. Erdinç. Moving on to QA. I'm going to do a question-and-answer procedure for 15 minutes. Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0083par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to ask the Minister, how far is the investigation into the stolen or stolen questions on the KPSS exams? Again, where is the research on the copy of the LGS exam? Is there any information on that? The question comes to mind: Was these plans for the privatisation of the OSYM, or were these questions stolen or copied? Is there any research on that? Again, when will the Department of Watering be completed on this GAP project while the Minister of Development is here? We're still 20 percent, 20 percent of irrigable land. When will it be completed? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0084par0124	Thank you, Mr. Firat. Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0085par0126	Our Minister of Health was here, and I had prepared a medical question for him before I left! Yeah, he didn't, he's here. Now, in the summer season, our summer cities are growing in populations. So we have cities with 5,000 populations that reach 100,000 to 150. Do they plan to assign additional doctors, additional medical staff to the cities here? If they make an effort to do so, we'll be happy for our citizens in all the coastal cities. We know some hospitals are closed around here, so do we have to do any work to keep these hospitals from being shut down? And another question is, do all of our questions here just go through the transcripts, or do they get picked up and made up? I'll pass along such a request. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0086par0130	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0087par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. I thought I'd ask when Mr. Health Minister was here. How many liras were paid to private hospitals in Eskişehir in 2011 through the SGK channel? What is the status of the campus hospital in Eskişehir? I asked for information on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0088par0136	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0089par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. While Mr. Health Minister was here, I was going to ask him the question, but he's still in Congress. Gebze region, you know, is a very dense area of industry. So it's a very busy area of business accidents. In recent days, we have experienced a problem that, at the point of reattaching or treating the limbs that had been severed during business accidents, we have trouble with five private hospitals in the region, two public hospitals, and still having trouble with hand surgery and plastic surgery, and still at the point of going sick to Haydarpaşa or Istanbul. I'd like to express my thoughts about Mr. Secretary's involvement in this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0090par0142	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0091par0144	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask your government a question about the Doğanbey freak who was built by the Toki. They put a freak right next to the Green Mosque, and they planted something weird. Of course, it's unthinkable for all the foundation work to happen where there's all those artworks. As far as the matter is concerned, our mayor will do his job quickly, hopefully, and we're looking forward to it very quickly. Hopefully, we'll see when we get there. Our question is, of course, do you plan to bring in new masterpieces like the nature of the nature freak? If you're predicting to build new freaks, we, the Bursians, have had enough of the freaks, so please let some other provinces take advantage of them. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0092par0147	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Your Honor...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0093par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. I have two questions. In this year, 20,000 disabled people will be employed. How many disabled people have been hired in 2012? What's the target by the end of the year? My second question: you know, you have to get 70 and higher points in order to get the disability pension. However, we see in the committee reports that with 69 points, the condition of your disability allowance is not granted. I'd like to ask Mr. Health Minister, how is this delicate scale found and how is it evaluated? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0094par0155	Thank you, Mr. Trust. Mr. Kaleli...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0095par0157	Thank you. I have two questions for the Minister. Someone, as the Ministry, have you sent a general order to inform the Ministry of the results and contact information of the pregnancy tests on all medical labs? If you did, what's the purpose of the sentence? Is there a legal basis for requesting patient information without a patient's consent or a court order? My second question is, do you plan to include public health specialists in appointments to the public health departments and community health centers of the Turkish Public Health Institution established under a decree under the law? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0096par0162	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. Mr. Spectacle...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0097par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. What I want to ask is that by losing the former status of the National Productivity Centre with the Constitution 635, it becomes a general director within the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. Now there are changes here and there are changes in a relevant article, in Article 53. Now, of course, all over the world, these kinds of organizations have autonomous, independent structures, and they have structures not only in public, but in public, in private sectors, in universities, all of them. In this regard, such a change is actually contrary to the causes of the national production centers. As a matter of fact, the World Centres for Efficiency says there is no such institution all over the world, and there is no state-owned institution for public service. Do you have any idea of a change in that regard? Secondly, with this transition, efficiency experts and expert assistants, industry and technology experts and experts. Is there going to be a loss of financial and autonomy, a loss of employment and retirement?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0098par0168	Thank you, Mr. Türeli. Mr. Oran...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0099par0170	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you a question about the GAP. My friend just stated that at a meeting of the Prime Minister in Şanlıurfa, four years ago, the GAP Action Plan had expressed a five-year action plan. Four years are up, one year to go, in July. In particular, there were goals given in employment - 3.5 million jobs, an illegal national increase of 190 per cent, a figure in irrigation. Where are we with those goals today? There's also the GAP, which is forgotten in the incentives, which is the sixth district, but there are no nine provinces of Gap. I'd like your comment on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0100par0173	Thank you, Mr. Oran. Mr. Ascendant...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0101par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Egemen Bagis, of the government's ministers, has recently made a statement. Izmir's EXPO 2015 said that we lost to the AKP because of the closing case against your party, which is why he was in a democracy accident. Now we're ambitious for 2020, we're all working together... but on the same day that Izmir Metropolitan Municipality presented for the 2020 EXPO... the same day the operation was launched against Metropolitan Municipality and Metropolitan City, the concerned city's mayor, Izmir Goshen, is being tried for three hundred and ninety-seven years as head of the gang. I wonder what that would do to EXPO 2020. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0102par0178	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0103par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Firat had a question about investigations into KPSS and YGS. About that, to be honest, I don't have any current information. If they allow it, it's better to be answered in writing. There were questions of Mr. Firat and Mr. Oran concerning the GAP Action Plan. I'd like to share something with you about that. As said earlier, in 2008, our Prime Minister announced the GAP Action Plan. Until then, GAP investments had only reached 7 per cent of the total investments. In fact, in the years when we came to the government -- in 2002 -- this was down to 5 percent. By 2008, it was up to 7 percent. After the Action Plan, from time to time, it reached 14 per cent of our total investments, the share of GAP investments, the investments of the GAP provinces. This, of course, has given us a huge boost to our investments in the GAP. We're building hundreds of miles of main canals right now. We already had water in our dams, water to water more than a million hectares. We pass these on to the great plains on these main canals. Stage three is that it spreads through the field. The main narrow throat was the main canals. As I just said, we now have main channel work in over 600 kilometers. We have a main channel heading for Mardin. On the other hand, we have work in Suruç, on the other side of Diyarbakır-Batman. We're doing very serious tunnels, major channels, big investments here. Here, alone, we're not done yet. This year, as you say, is the last year of the Action Plan. We've never had any problems with funding in the GAP area. There's always been a complaint in the past that we don't have money, we don't have funds, we don't invest. There hasn't been a complaint like that in the last four or five years. Instead, we have these kinds of problems: Sometimes contractors don't get along, so they take it to the Public Contraction Agency on certain issues. There are some issues that can be court-martialed from there. Some of our investments may have problems choosing places, problems finding a place. We're having some technical difficulties. Otherwise, we couldn't even spend 100 percent of the funding we've been assigned because there's a team in the field, as I said, technical setbacks. Otherwise, it's not without funds. It's a GAP area. From universities to technokents, hospitals to schools, rural areas to SME support, not just irrigation, but we've made serious investments in many areas in the GAP region, and we're seeing the consequences. More than 200,000 of our people have been employed in these last two years alone in the GAP region, over 200,000 of our people. That's an important number for this area. Of course, we'd like to see it grow. In our last incentive law, seven counties from the GAP region -- if I remember correctly -- are in the sixth district, in the fifth district of Adıyaman, and Gaziantep is a little higher. This incentive system will contribute very seriously to private sector investments in our GAP region. We believe that for the development of a region, the public and private sector should invest in one another in a complementary way. So, on the one hand, we're making enormous investments with the Action Plan, and on the other hand, with our incentives to this private sector, hopefully, the GAP region -- it's going to take off -- it's going to take off. We're planning to extend our Action Plan for another five years next semester to complete our projects that I've just mentioned from the past, as well as the new GAP plan. This will be a period in which the old GAP (applause) will be closed, and the new GAP (applause) will be opened. There is no end to development in any of our regions, and there will be no end to our development in the GAP region. Just to give you an example, we need to evaluate the sun as well as the water of the GAP. We need to evaluate its commercial potential, and we need to be able to go much further in tourism. We're also conducting our work on this new era. We're trying to get new ideas through our development agencies, through our GAP administration network, through our Ministry channel, central and local. Of course, we don't start from scratch, we have a floor. We'll continue on this ground for another five years with a new plan of action in the new era. I've gone too far. There were a lot of questions for our Minister of Health. I want to finish here. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0104par0190	About the old and new Gap...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0105par0191	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, a question has been asked about this summer's population, mobile population and the need for doctors. We strengthen them as much as we can, as much as we can, with temporary assignments in the summer as our human resources are sufficient, and we'll do the same this summer. In Eskişehir, our 600-bed contract at Yunus Emre Hospital ended, and I believe his contract was completed as of yesterday. We're starting to build this. With a public-private partnership, we'll close the tender for a new hospital this year, hopefully. We're doing a team effort on hand surgery now, so our citizens are not victims of that. Because the number of teams capable of hand surgery is unfortunately inadequate in Turkey. Thus, if necessary, we have established a common system where we can move the citizen, including airplanes or helicopters, but surely, in the case of Bigeli, we need to improve the situation of hand surgery. That's what we do at our university. We don't have any generalizations regarding the pregnancy test. We have only one concern - especially to ensure that our low-income or medium-income citizens are followed during pregnancy, and to save mothers' lives, to keep their babies healthy. Other than that, we don't have any applications. There were some things in the public, in the newspapers, but there's no way that's relevant to our department's generalization, and we've made a statement. We're assigning public health professionals to the public health departments and public health departments. You can appreciate that management is a little different than expertise. There are 150 public health experts working at the Ministry of Health in Turkey. So, of course, we can't make all of these managers, but as administrators as far as possible, we are determined to assign public health experts to these points. There's just one little thing left, sir, if you'll excuse me... these are the rules for the disabled, based on the norms of the European Union, with their directives in mind, according to these reports. Maybe the citizen doesn't like it from time to time, he can't, but according to these directives, reports are presented according to certain standards. Thank you for the questions.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0106par0199	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the talks on chapter three are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the third section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions on Article 43, all three of which are the same. I'm going to read these three motions that are of the same nature, and in the same way, I'm going to process them in some way, but I'm going to promise them separately according to their demands. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 43rd amendment of the current bill, 302 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kazim Kurt Aydın Agha Ayyadın Haydar Akar Fatma Nur Serker Musa Pine The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı S. Nevzat Don't Fear Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Ali İlm Ali Öz The signatures of the other motion are: Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Tüzzel İdris Baluken Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Altan Tan Does the commission agree with these motions I've made?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0107par0225	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0106par0226	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0108par0227	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0106par0228	Who's going to talk?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0109par0229	Erol Dora.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0106par0230	Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0110par0232	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on Article 43 of Law Proposal No. 302. I salute you all. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, the government's usual bag of law with the General Assembly today is not a new method. In Roman law, the laws of karma, which included nonsensical substances and all of which were enforced as a single law, were called ▪leges saurae (saurae). However, Rome has banned the laws of the bag from early times, seeing the problem of this method and what kind of political corruption it leads to, and it has made it necessary that the only subject or subject of tight contact be included in the same issue. Whatever political, economic, strategic, legal, and legal ways and reasons that suggest making a bag of laws in Rome, there are some differences, but the same thinking law is now being made. However, even then, the Romans were able to commit a righteous act by banning the bag of law by prohibiting political society and politics. In many parts of the world right now, for example, in the United States, in 43 states, the bag of laws has been banned, and the principle of the singularity of the law in these states has been adopted as a constitutional obligation. In 98 B.C., I leave it to you to consider the fact that we are speaking in this Parliament today, as a matter of concern that Rome had caused political corruption in the year 98 B.C. It seems that we are in great need of the ethical principles of Roman lawmakers. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers we're talking about are limited to 30 grand, while the most important expectation of their proposal is the lack of employment for unsupervised teachers. In the last ten years, however, the teacher deficit has increased dramatically, with the number of unassigned teachers today reaching 350,000. Each year, hundreds of thousands of teachers had to work uninsuredly to earn their bread. Teachers are exploited both financially and spiritually as a result of these neo-politics implemented by power, and the teaching profession has lost its sanctity in the eyes of society, and the teaching profession has been rendered worthless in the eyes of the community, as well as in all other fields. Since January alone, four teachers and 32 teachers have ended their lives for the past ten years. For four years, life has become a prison for teachers who wait for the day when they will become teachers, thinking about their future students. That's what the government does for teachers. Now the government can't stand the pressure, but the common opinion of educational unions does not meet the need for teachers in Turkey. The number must be increased in the appointment of teachers, and above all, the way for teachers to live in a human way is to be given the right to their essence. More teachers need to be appointed to reach the light tomorrows of our country, but the neglect of 30,000 police staffs -- 3,000 central and 27,000 rural -- is also thought-out. What's the point of all this police activity? The need of a democratic country is not to increase police personnel, but to be appointed teachers and other professions. Mr. President, good lawmakers, the bag of laws are seriously damaging this country's future. Instead of a bag of laws that are out of commissions, which are not being properly discussed by public opinion and relevant NGOs, I say it would be healthier to make laws on one subject by the principle of the singularity of the issue and to contribute more to Turkey's democratisation, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0111par0240	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Mr. Günal of the National Movement Party, come in.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0112par0243	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, when we were discussing chapter one of the law, I made it clear in general that this practice was wrong. Because on the one hand, when there was a pro-privatisation view of the Justice and Development Party's government programmes and policies, when there was a philosophy, we now said that it was against your philosophy that TÜBITAK and OSIM started a company, and that it would cause trouble as a process. If such a thing should happen, set up a government printing press, then let's do all the strategic printing there. I told you. So we made this offer because it's a substance that can cause other problems when we're trying to solve one problem. On the one hand, there are mistakes in privatisation procedures, and there are things that are impossible to come back from, and I don't understand this confusion as you change it with the bag that we're taking out here, and then the Council of Ministers makes the decision. Because you know there were mistakes there, too. A cabinet decision was issued on June 12th; it nullifies all court decisions on privatisation. And that's based on the bag of law we took out in April. And it's based on a basis that you've put into the Constitution of September 12th, in a more subtle way, in which you've led everyone. At the moment, the decisions made by the judiciary regarding privatisation have been neutralized by the Council of Ministers' decision. So you remember what was in this, and I remind you again, we need to know what we've been canceling, what we've been doing with the powers we've given here, what we've been doing with the materials we've been taking out. I'd like to make a quick reminder. First of all, 14.76 percent of TUPRASH was cancelled because it was against the law. Secondly, Sejdişehir Eti Aluminum was given to a company in 2005, and in 2007 the State Department cancelled, and in addition, our Oymapınar Dam was given as a bonus because I was a Manavgatian. Again, about the SECA, about the Balıkesir Paper Factory, there was about the Port of Ceşmahesi, which, by the power vested in us by a law that we took all of this out of here, unfortunately, the Council of Ministers had made a decision on June 12th that would reverse judgment decisions, preventing it from being implemented, and so on and so forth. Of course, on the one hand, what's he doing with this law? We allow you to get rid of the Supreme Court because of the past proceedings, and we close the judicial path and judicial control for those who do these irregularities -- not the MPs -- who have signed the signature. Now, when there are such controversial things about privatisation in this environment, let's not do the complicated, complicated court decisions that have been done before. I've told you before, we've submitted a motion for research and a motion for questions, unfortunately, as our ministers haven't responded, and that's what's going on here. At this very moment, when the bill of the Armenian genocide of France, which they called genocide, was discussed, on the same day, the Minphane Printer gave the printing to French companies, if you recall. Now, can't we find anything in Turkey to print two chip passports, ID cards, a private test card? If not, then, I said: there's a central bank printing press, there's other printers, there's a lot of stuff in the state supply office, all of it...... sir, this place is inefficient, let's close, let's get service. Sir, let's do an outside outsourcing... So what happens now? Let's not go down on the boat... friends, it's not in such a hurry, if there's a problem there, not by shoving it into a bag like this, but if, you know, bring what's wrong, find out, look at the problems in other institutions, the MERNIS system is going into practice, there's new identity, there's new driver's a new driver's license, there's a lot of things you're doing separately. So let's make all of this a printing press, one way or another, that's important to the government and the strategic papers. I say we get this out of here, and we'll make it healthier. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0113par0253	Thank you, Mr. Günal. The speaker from the Republican People's Party... Here you go, Mr. Serker.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0114par0257	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to an arrangement regarding the SNSIM, and the Republican People's Party recommends that Article 43 be removed from the text of the law. Dear lawmakers, here, now, in this bag, or in this big bag that's been converted into this bag, there are about 10 percent of the articles related to the OSYM, or more than 10 percent of them. Who suggested over 10 of these arrangements? He's recommending S.E.A.P.D. Can we see the head of CPS here? We can't see. And they did not come to it when the matter before it was discussed; so it was twelve o'clock in the morning, and one of them was two; and they did not come to it today. So those who recommend these substances here, those who work the General Assembly for hours to do so, they don't even bother to answer the claims of the opposition here, not even to answer through the minister, not even to inform on this matter, the General Assembly doesn't show up. I strongly condemn that. Number two: There are over 10 articles on the OSI, there are regulations for national education, but since none of these have been sent to the National Education Commission, we are trying to travel in a dark area. We object to this clause. Why do we object? Because the SNS is forming companies -- they've been discussed in the previous articles, we've expressed our concerns about this -- and they're transferring all of their tasks to companies, including preparing questions for the exam. It's not enough, it's the VP and vice presidents in this company's organs. It's not enough to get a job, they're getting paid for a job in this company's organs. Well, it's called grace, grace! Dear friends, when you look at OSYM Act 6114, it says that the president and his deputies work full-time. When you say full-time, we understand that being in such an important institution is to be constantly in it, to have a lot of claims and delusions about that institution, and to have them in the middle, and to manage the institution. However, there was an exception in Law 6114, where the president and his assistants worked full-time, but they also contribute to graduate education, so full-time workers can go to their universities, they can teach at these universities, they can give thesis counseling at these universities, but it is called full-time work. The second exception is now: they can take part in the companies. Dear friends, that's not possible. You know why it's not possible? It is not possible for the president and a vice president, who are university professors, to work at another institution in any way paid or free of charge. However, in another institution, of course, it can be assigned to a public institution or an NGO, but with this record, I would like to read to you now, Article 38 of Law 2547: ▪ No other payment can be paid by the institution they will serve them other than this payment. It's very clear, it's the law. So we propose that this clause be removed from the text, removed from the text of the law because there's a very serious violation of the law here, it's illegal. Although you're used to illegal practices, our duty as opponents is to warn you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0115par0266	Thank you, Mr. Serker.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0116par0267	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0115par0268	I submit to your votes the three motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit Article 43 to your votes.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0116par0270	We asked for a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit02spe0115par0271	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who accept Article 43... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0115par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 131st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Article 46 of Law Offer 302 was asked and was not found. Now I'm going to re-offer the item to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who do not accept... the 46th article has been accepted... and there is enough to decide. We'll resume negotiations on the proposal from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. There are two motions on Article 47...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0117par0008	We're withdrawing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0115par0009	You've drawn your motion. Then there's a motion on Article 47, which I'm going to read: T. B. M. To the M presidency The current bill, 302 rows, is 47. It's based on the matter of the Interim 2. The provisions of the Law of Debts shall be applied in cases where there is no sentence in the contract of Kira, which is removed from the text of the article. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bült Turan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0118par0018	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0115par0019	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0119par0020	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0115par0021	You agree.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0120par0022	Motive...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0115par0023	I'm reading the reason: Reason: To clarify the subject. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit to your votes the 47th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 48: T. B. M. To the M presidency The current bill, 302 rows, is 48. We propose that the clause (c) be changed up to 70% of the expression in the joke by 80%. Celal Dinçer Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Çam Kazim Kurt Bkent Kuşoğlu Veli Ağbaba Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Article 48 in the framework of the current Law Proposal 302 rows to the following form. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Alim Light Mehmet Erdoğan Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Muharrem Varlı "The first article (c) of Article 2 of Article 2 (c) of the Constitution of Science, Industry and Technology Ministry No. 635, dated 48-3/6/2011, has been changed as follows. "c) To do and evaluate all infrastructure investments in organised industrial regions and industrial regions, to plan, to build, build, and function, to support, support, support, and control, and manage policies of the enterprises, to develop and implement, monitor, and assess the results of organised industrial areas and all the infrastructure of industrial sites and up to 70 per cent of the infrastructure facilities." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0121par0045	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0115par0046	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0122par0047	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0115par0048	Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0123par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we have a motion for a amendment to the establishment of OSBs and the establishment of industrial regions in Article 48. Of course, organised industrial areas are a major contributor to the development of a region, a province. Mr. Secretary, you know, Ceyhan organized industry has been unable to build for more or less five years, despite the struggle. All the rooms in Ceyhan have agreed, all the rooms are working on it. Before you, Mr. Zafer Çağlayan was the minister, and he was also interviewed. There has to be a change of law, it can't be done, it can't be established in this organized industrial area. So you're going to say: it's going to be 75 percent. It's going to be 75% of the time. It's not possible to find 75% of the amount if you combine Adana and Kozan Organised Industry in one place. You've already expanded the area of Organised Industry in Adana, when the Organised Industry in Adana is close to the full volume. So we didn't get the fill rate again, and the organised industry in Ceyhan could never be established, despite any struggle. By the votes of members of the city's general Assembly of the Special Administration in Adana, it is 1/100. Even though Ceyhan Organised Industries had been processed on the 3,000-pound map, the governorship of Adana rejected it again. And the reason he refused is because the organized industry didn't apply to the Special Administration. So we were unable to establish an organized industry. We will now come to the Ministry with a new offer, hopefully. We want to organize this as a speciality organised industry, because it's an important area, and this area will always be what you brag about, and the energy area that you show off from time to time is going to be the Rotterdam of the world. Organised industry in this area needs to be established and functioned as soon as possible. If organised industry is established, there will be investments in this region, but we have never been able to build this organised industry, because we are faced with different kinds of obstacles, so that the establishment of this organised industry would be of great benefit to Adana, and to Ceyhan's economy. Again, you've put everything into this law, you've put a lot of things into it, you've put a lot of things that have nothing to do with it, that have nothing to do with it, that have nothing to do with it, that have nothing to do with it, that have nothing to do with it, but with the farmer, there's nothing to do with agriculture. Why not? I mean, isn't this a country where agriculture is the largest and most farmers live? But unfortunately, in this law, the bag is about the farmer, the farmer's development, the growth, the investment, so as always, the farmer is ignored, the farmer is ignored. Here we are talking from time to time, Mr. Minister comes out, and he says: "We made these investments, we made these investments, sir, we gave these supports, we gave these supports. What kind of animal do you give back to the farmer, compared to the amount you pay for fertilizer, diesel tax? Let me see how many of them you give back to the farmer, what time you give back to the farmer, what time you buy from the farmer? There's a confusion of concepts, where they try to make a policy by deceiving people, by deceiving people, by putting people to sleep, and so the farmer's not in good shape. In this bag of legislation, we expected that if you had come up with a law that would support the farmer, raise the farmer, take the farmer one step further, maybe it would have been much more positive, much more beautiful, but unfortunately there isn't. Again, the Adana industry, in your reign, has, unfortunately, collapsed. The unemployment rate is very high in Adana. Adana may still be the first in Turkey's unemployment, but hopefully we'll change all of that soon. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0124par0061	Thank you, Mr Varli. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. T. B. M. To the M presidency The current bill, 302 rows, is 48. We propose that the statement of the clause (c) to 70% be changed to 80%. Celal Dinçer (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0125par0068	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0124par0069	The government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0126par0070	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0124par0071	Mr. Kören, come in.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0127par0073	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 48th article of the bag law, which is the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. Yesterday was the 19th anniversary of the Sivas massacre. We've all seen and lived together this year, and so have our deputies who have been there... believe me, we all continue to grieve deeply about the atrocities, the massacre, because they haven't been completed in 19 years... without a legal conclusion or conclusion of their perpetrators. Last Tuesday in Istanbul, a police officer named Tamer Fiter died from intense work, and you've all heard from the newspapers. In fact, because of this busy police work, 18 hours of work, our friend is dead, he's a martyr. My condolences and patience to his family. And every speaker that came out expressed his thoughts about the long work here. We also set records in Parliament; we work for as long as twenty-five hours, twenty-six hours, twenty-seven hours. In fact, what happened last night was always a sign that things like this could happen if God didn't show it to the Parliament. Months ago, even though I didn't get into this area in a lot of arguments, I ended up unconscious at 5:00 in the morning at such a long-term pace. But, of course, it wasn't something I wanted, it was a case of fatigue. We had the same incident last night. In fact, I couldn't figure out how he got that way. I went to avoid a fight, and I found myself in a fight. My dear friends, I mean, let's add some jokes, but if you have reservations at hotels, cancel them. I mean, three days of work here, five more days of work, why would any of us be held back? If these laws are to be passed, do we have to work 24 hours, 25 hours? But I thought about it. This isn't what you want in Parliament, it's not what the group's deputy presidents want. So, who's the mindset that wants to work twenty-six hours, twenty-seven hours, thirty hours, and who's the idea? Something has happened in your group that you do what the Prime Minister tells you to do. Do it, there's no problem with doing it, but when I look at where the flaw is, I find that if you didn't come in at this time and become a member of parliament, and you didn't come in as a member of the group, then you wouldn't be able to understand this Parliament if you didn't write as an executive officer, as a court clerk. The prime minister, when you look at the Prime Minister's progress, has been in command authorities that have never served in this parliament; mayor, mayor, parliament, but also the Prime Minister's office. So he doesn't understand this place, he doesn't know what's going on here. Can you take the responsibility if something happened to the lawmakers here at night while they were sleeping... no matter how nervous they were at the end of twenty-seven hours... no matter what group, the representatives of the people, at the will of the people, in this Parliament -- our friends who were older than us -- if something had happened to them with that fatigue? The group's vice presidents are speakers of the Prime Minister, the General President in Parliament, but we see that within 25 hours, the group's vice presidents are pushing themselves aside to use initiative. Then at the desired rate, the work here is not efficient. My dear friends, I believe the long work of the House is not right. If we're legislature, there's no way to accept the pressure of power over legislation. Now, here's to the 48th article about the OSBs, the essence of the matter. My dear friends, the OSBs, as requested...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0128par0080	Thank you, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0127par0081	Since I have a speech in Article 50, I will continue the second one here. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0128par0084	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 48th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 48th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 49: T. B. M. M. To the presidency. This is the 49th draft of the current bill, 302 rows. In the matter, we would like to change the expression from its instructions to be changed in the form of (e.g.). With all due respect, Celal Dinçer Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Çam Kazim Kurt Ali Sarıbaş Veli Ağbaba Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the current Law Proposal of 302 rows be replaced as follows by Article 49 of the framework. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Alim Light Mehmet Erdoğan Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Article 49-635 has been changed as follows in Article 3 of the 3rd Amendment. "The ministry consists of central and rural and foreign organization." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0129par0106	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0128par0107	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0130par0108	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0128par0109	Who's gonna talk about the nationalist movement party?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0131par0110	Motive...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0128par0111	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to make matter more understandable. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. T. B. M. M. To the presidency. This is the 49th draft of the current bill, 302 rows. In the matter, we would like to change the expression from its instructions to be changed in the form of (e.g.). With all due respect, Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0132par0121	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0128par0122	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0133par0123	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0128par0124	Mr. Yellowhead, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0134par0126	Mr. President, I have made a promise to make a change in Article 49 of the Law Proposal on some Laws. By the way, I hereby salute you all with my deepest love and respect. Again, on July 2nd, I condemn this brutal massacre in Sivas, and after that, I wish our intellectuals would not be killed again. We've said it many times, and we've said it many times, so we've actually said that the law in Turkey is not under the command of governance, and in this sense, that the Constitution, which has actually emerged in 1982, is still the use of its powers to issue a decree in the current rule of law, on the one hand, freedoms, and freedoms are still being expressed against different expressions, but our Parliament is still bypassed in accordance with Article 87, according to Article 87 of the Constitution. In this particular sense, there has been a serious legalisation of both the names and content of state institutions and ministries in Turkey, especially in pre-election, which have been hijacked from the agenda of Turkey, and we do not really know what its contents are. In this sense, as a result, despite the fact that it was their decision that was carried out quickly on June 3rd, we still see mistakes being made. Look, even though it's been a year, there's been six more amendments or additions to these laws that the Ministry of Industry has made over the course of a year. Now, we see now that the government, which has taken up its mandate to pass the law by mixing law enforcement with law enforcement that has been prepared so special and has actually been prepared with bureaucrats for so long, has not done that as well. And for that, this motion is very clear here. In addition to the land, it is also organized abroad. So, are you going to open it somewhere abroad? Isn't there a word that's so right that you can't see it? If this offer becomes legal, you won't be able to open it in a second place. Therefore, I would like this motion to be accepted. But, of course, the right thing to do, by the way, is that if our lawmaking technique and legislation were really done right here, if these laws were actually done right in the functioning of Parliament by public opinion, if these errors had not been made, there would not have been a decision here 11 months ago, 12 months ago. Now, what I want to say here is that we have two organized industrial areas in Çanakkale, one in Biga, and one in Çanakkale. It's not enough to just make law here or declare organized industrial areas. To encourage production here -- industrialization -- today's modern -- to create reality outside the trade with Turkey's reality -- is to make it necessary to create jobs for people in return for their hard work. That's the main function of the Ministry of Industry. In this sense, the Ministry of Industry and Technology in particular put our region in the 2nd degree of incentive -- Çanakkale -- in this sense -- is the reason why the OSB here is not filled with the inside of the organised industrial zone. We see other factories that have been built into this, and the existing factories that have fled from here. Even in one part of the West, such as Çanakkale, you still can't provide industrialization, no matter how much you've built those industrial areas there, you can't open the way to the private sector, if you've kept the Chanakkale in the 2nd place since you've been here for years. On this occasion, the incentive laws here are correct, but also about the destruction of unemployment in Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that the private sector should be especially in favor of production, and I give all of you my regards.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0135par0135	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 49th article: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 49th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 50: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 302 rows, is 50. We would like to add the statement of the clause (f) to edit the statement with regulations that will be prepared in the context of the article (f). Celal Dinçer Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Çam Kazim Kurt Bkent Kuşoğlu Veli Ağbaba Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa MP Recai Berber and Bart's MP, Yilmaz Tunç, and 6 MPs, who have been in contact with 302 rows, have been asked to make amendments to certain Laws; The Orders of the Republican People's Party Group Chair Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi; the Law Order of the Ministry of National Education on Organizations and Jobs; the Proposal of Law on Law, Balık MP Namık Havutçça, and the Proposal of Non-Aditable Teachers for Free Kadros and State Officers' Law on National Education Law and Some Laws's Law on Organizations; the Proposals of Law and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments of Ministerships and 2nd Amendments of Ministerships and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments of Ministership and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments of Ministerships and 2nd Amendments of Ministerships and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments of Ministerships and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2th Amendments. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Alim Light Mehmet Erdoğan Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu "The first joke (b) of Article 9 (d) of Article 50-635 of Article 9 of the Constitution was changed in the following manner, adding the (e) and (f) dams below (e) to come after the bend (e) and the present (e) bendi (g) was identified as bendi. "b) to conduct business and operations related to the planning of organised industrial areas and industrial areas, planning, zoning, zoning plans, building and functioning, making public benefit decisions in organised industrial areas and overseeing operations in industrial areas." "e) To improve the competitiveness of businesses, to prepare support programmes for companies operating in a particular geography; to co-operate with universities, public institutions and institutions that affect the business world; to provide support programmes; to monitor these initiatives; to monitor them, evaluate them and supervise them," he said. "f) This clause is to prepare regulations to be implemented by the Ministry on the basis of the operations and control of the specified tasks," Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0136par0158	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0135par0159	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0137par0160	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0135par0161	Who will speak from the National Movement Party?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0138par0162	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0135par0163	I'm reading the reason: Matter is intended to contain more understandable legal statements. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 302 rows, is 50. We would like to add the statement of the clause (f) to edit the statement with regulations that will be prepared in the context of the article (f). Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0139par0172	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0135par0173	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0140par0174	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0135par0175	Mr. Kören, come in.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0141par0177	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 50th Amendment on the bag of law. About the OSBs, Mr. Minister, if they listen to us, I'll bring up an important matter. There is no problem in organised industrial areas that have made their choices within themselves, but where the joint delegations continue, there is a haul, a raid going on; and on and on, I'm telling you, a score, a raid is going on. Before that, for the faster development of organised industrial areas in 2002-2004, you know, 35 per cent were shared into private administration, 35 per cent in the trade room, 35 per cent in municipalities, but we are the ones who advocate for the gathering of all of these in the municipality because there is no money or participation in private administrations and trading rooms to be made here. Unfortunately, we defended something wrong. 98 per cent of organised industries have moved to municipalities. Lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party continue to score here. Well, dear, we need an example. You say that, but it's important not to put all organized industries under suspicion. Minister, over the past decade -- the industry closest to the Turkish Organised Industry, Izmir, is taking advantage of the incentives of the 4th district in the 3rd district of Manisa -- 1,500 people are not working in the Turgutian Organised Industry. In fact, Manisa Organised Industries, which we described as "Sabuncubeli" as a place in the winter, returns from Turgutlu to Izmir because it is 40km between Turgutlu and Izmir. But no matter what happens here, there's no improvement. Here the plots are handed over to each other, where they get money from the plots. You get paid under the name Turgutluspor, you get paid under the name of the city. Unfortunately, the Turtle Organised Industry hasn't improved in over a decade. My dear friends, 41 percent of the Turtle Organised Industry belongs to a company. Whenever we have written to the OSB about this company, there is no way to get any information. The owner of this company is a member of the OSB board, a member of the economic and industrial advisory board of the Turgut City to answer every question asked. My dear friends, where there are so many unemployed people, there's no way to get any information from the Turtle Organised Industry. A triangle is set up: organized industry, Turtle City, Turgutluspor. We're writing a question motion to our Minister... there's no way that any of our friends there can get information. No matter how much it's about information, when it's written, it's never answered. So, what happens when I write as a congressman? When I write this to the Minister, it's not the same as the answers. It's obvious that the answers have already been wronged. Why is 41 percent given to a company? When we say -- and the answer is interesting -- it's said, "Sir, this company pays properly." Well, don't other companies in organised industry pay properly or pay with interest when they don't pay properly? What does the Ministry say? The Ministry says that according to the answer given by the organizational industry... My dear friends, when we ask the Ministry about something related to organised industry, the Ministry has no right to answer according to the answer given by the Turgut Organised Industry Board or the President. There's Izmir at the bottom. She's on trial for handing out milk, she's on trial for handing out cakes, she's on trial for handing out sandwiches. 50 inspectors are tired of living in Izmir City Hall. Minister, 40 kilometers, 35 kilometers. Why don't you send all three of those 50 bored inspectors to the Turgut Organised Industries, where they can do some research? In this study, can't you really think whether or not the MP speaking from this parliament is telling the truth or telling the truth? With anonymous letters, false witnesses, anonymous witnesses, people who've been in jail for years, is it possible that what a congressman says cannot be taken to the castle? I've written 15 questions. There's no answer to any of the motions, Mr. Secretary. I say pear, I get an apple answer. I believe you're sincere about this. We don't have any problems with you, but please check it out. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0142par0187	Thank you, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0143par0188	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0142par0189	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is enough of a decision, there is not enough, the motion is not accepted. I submit the 50th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is enough of a decision, and the 50th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 51: T. B. M. Head of M The current bill, 302 rows, is 51. In the article (e) joke, we propose that the expression of the foreign departments of the ministry be changed to all foreign units of the ministry. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Celal Dinçer Musa Çam Kazim Kurt Veli Ağbaba Bkent Kuşoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the current Law Proposal of 302 rows be replaced in the following manner by Article 51. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Alim Light Mehmet Erdoğan Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Article 12 of Article 51-635 of the Law was added as the new (e) bendi below, and the other dams were identified accordingly. ίe) To organise and supervise the activities of the ministry's abroad units. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0144par0209	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0142par0210	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0145par0211	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0146par0212	Motive.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0142par0213	Motive. Reason: Control of foreign units is intended to be added to matter. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. T. B. M. Head of M The current bill, 302 rows, is 51. In the article (e) joke, we propose that the expression of the foreign departments of the ministry be changed to all foreign units of the ministry. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0147par0221	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0142par0222	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0148par0223	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0142par0224	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0149par0225	Mr. Sakine Oz will speak.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0142par0226	Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0150par0228	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the 51st Amendment of the bag of legislation we're discussing. I salute you all. I don't have much say in this law. What concerns me is why we don't take care of the sacks that are piling up, not the stuff that goes into our bag, but a lot of people's problems. Look, there's a clause in this proposal. After an eight-year education was accepted in 1997, it allows graduates of five-year schools to get a driver's license. I proposed the same law ten months ago. The AKP, on the other hand, eliminates the victim almost a year later. It is evident that this contradicts constructive opposition demands. You don't even consider the work of a congressman, how are you going to hear the voices of the victims? Look, the village of Köseali of Salihli and the town of Gökeyeb are full in May, and the manufacturers are devastated. I've told you about this from this bench, and I've requested a postponement of the manufacturers' debt to the banks, but it must have blocked the ears of those who were loaded with products, which since then, there has been no improvement. Imagine, we have a disaster that has ruined our labors for many years, and our children are miserable, but the compassionate hand of the state does not reach out to you; what would you do? On another subject: geothermal eruptions in Alhan village of Alaşehir, Manisa Province, have been going on for a full month and a half. The farmland is useless, but the ruling party is tied up with our farmers, watching the explosions. And sometimes the drinking water of the region is not contaminated. We make wasteful explanations, such as that of the region. Of course, we're not opposed to the evaluation of our geothermal wealth by private companies, but the lack of a powerful control mechanism has brought the environmental disaster, the economic disaster for the people of the region. In short, the AKP's lack of control came and struck Alaşehir. Now, isn't it our right to ask you: why is it that you have a Dianetian consultant in your bag, and there's nothing wrong with a land-thinking farmer at the head of your field? Again, there's a start-up of companies, but why isn't there anything going on with the manufacturer who's struggling with the explosions? It doesn't come out because we liken the AKP to be like a deserving Santa Claus, and his saddlebag to be tendered to supporters, but nothing comes out to the poor, to the victim, to the victim. Another thing that didn't go in your bag, the courthouses that were closed. The Selden and the Fortytree courthouses survived being shut down, Lakemarmara and Bridgehead did not survive. In this regard, I have personally seen AKP lawmakers try to shut down two courts in Manisa, and do nothing for others. Notice that even between the two counties of one county, there is an effort to favour its own districts. There's nothing acceptable about it. In the last election, the ruling party has made it possible for a bag of coals to reach out to the people it has failed to improve its economic situation. He's closing the courthouses now. He wants people to come and ask them to keep the courthouse buildings open, to give them a hand, and then he says: "To me, public service is more important than anything. You are not after public service, you are seeking destruction for the people. On another subject: As CHP MPs, we have run out of hair to tell about the pollution in the Gediz Basin. Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu earlier said that on December 31, 2012, it was 17 p.m. I will fish at 00, and I will fish at the Gediz River. Now he realized that only the river could hold chemical waste from the river, and he forgot his promises. The most fertile land in the world has accepted this pollution. Members of parliament, let something come out of AKP's bag so that we can no longer give more martyrs; the public wants something out of you, something out of your bag, something out for the poor, something out for the unemployed, something out for the victims. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0151par0240	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who do not... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 51st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 51st article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 52: The current bill, 302 rows, is 52. We are authorized to establish the non-native organization at the end of its clause, instead of the expression, we would like to order it to be reorganized outside the country. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Celal Dinçer Veli Ağbaba Bkent Kuşoğlu
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0152par0252	We're pulling our motion.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0151par0253	Does the commission agree with this motion I've submitted?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0153par0254	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0151par0255	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0154par0256	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0151par0257	Mr. Special, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0155par0259	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a promise to discuss the motion we made on the 52nd Article of Bag 302. We don't have a problem with the establishment of an international country agency. We're just offering a little arrangement here. But as my friends say, we're negotiating a bag of laws. Now that he's passed this bag, he's in the sack. You're expecting that the lawmakers, especially members of the ruling party, who have completed a year of legislation, who are waiting to go on vacation at the end of the year, who go to their territory after their election commitments, must have a number of words to say about the common populations in the region, and they need to go out in a clear manner. For that, such extensive changes are expected to be made for pensioners, farmers, workers, serious changes, commitments, but there is no such thing. In particular, in every shop we entered during the election, every hand we squeezed, every small, large-scale tradesman we went to made some demands of us, some complaints. After the June 12th elections, I shook the hands of tradesmen I couldn't shake hands with before the election in 16 counties, including the center, and I sat and listened to their troubles. We go into shops, we hear such sad stories, that sometimes you're nervous to even drink the tea they offer, so that you can go as a congressman and have a tea money, so that I don't have to be a burden. In Turkey, we all know the method of calculating, but it's impossible to say that the income per shop is increasing. The debt per shop goes up, the tuition goes up, the money goes up, the money goes up, the foreclosure goes up, the workforce goes up. In 2011, in Manisa, 5,060 -2012, experts said that the number was more than 7,000 -- the shop shut down, closed its shops. They are in a state of distress. It's not surprising because the shopkeeper's client is a civil servant, the shopkeeper's client is a worker, a farmer, retired, small income. It's no wonder in your power that these parts of your era are really crushed, and therefore so many tradesmen -- 5,000, 6,000 tradesmen in a province like Manisa -- shut down, closed down their shop. The basic defense here, of course, comes from the following: there are also those who open up until closing. They're unemployed in factories, they're out of work, they're out of work, they're out of work, they're out of work, they're out of business, they're out of business, they're out of business, they're out of business, they're out of business, they're out of business, they're out of debt, they're out of business, they're out of business, they're out of business, they're out of business, they're out of business, they're out of business. Supermarkets are killing the shop if I'm in it. The ones with the limit on the credit card, the ones with the cash in their pocket, they go to the supermarkets and they shop, but there's people on the store credit card who don't have the limit, who have to come back with the money from the store's safe, who don't have the money, who have the credit. Which brings a separate burden, a separate ordeal, to our already powerless tradesman. When I listen to the trouble of the merchant in Manisa, they complain about it in particular. In fact, when I have money in your pocket for some of our citizens, don't go to the supermarket; when you have money in your pocket, go to the grocery store in the neighborhood, support the snack shop in the neighborhood, support the liquor store a little bit. It's a very important problem that those who have money in major cities like Manisa will go shopping in large cities and increase the burden of the troubled tradesman. When we say incentives, there's always incentives for great tradesmen, great employees. Small-scale, single-person enterprises are deprived of these incentives. However, we need a systemic, institutionalized support policy, but it is not possible to grow documents or demands in incentive policies. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0156par0269	Thank you, Mr. Special. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 52 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 52 is accepted. There are three motions on Article 53. They're the same property, one is the government's motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that 53 articles of the Law Proposal be changed in the following way. The following temporary clause has been added to the provisions of Article 53-635. The appointment of personnel working under the administrative service contract to the officers' staff Interim Article 7- (1) is one of the staff employed in the Ministry under administrative service contract and under the general conditions prescribed under Article 657 in Article 48 of the Law; A) In the history of the publication of this article, those in positioned positions of efficiency Experts in Industry and Technologies, Assistant Efficiency Experts, and those in positions with titles have been assigned to the Industrial and Technology Assistants. The time spent in the position of Efficiency Experts of Industry and Technology has been passed on to the industry and Technologies Assistant Efficiency Assistant. As part of this bent, the conditions for those assigned to the Industrial and Technology Specialist staff or as part of the Industrial and Technology Assistant staff, added to Law No. 657 (I), are not sought to benefit from the additional indicator figures (g) in the section "I-General Management Services Class" (I) section (G) under which they are referred to as conditions for access to employment. B) The other positions are appointed within three months by the Law provisions 657, considering issues such as training status and position titles. They continue to take their financial and social rights in their former positions until the appointment is carried out. (2) The service time spent in contracted personnel positions at the Ministry with the Multinational Productivity Centre of personnel involved in the first joke is assessed in determining the monthly degrees and levels of rights earned, provided they do not exceed the levels that can be raised based on the conditions of their studies. (3) Those who cannot be appointed to officers continue to work with their current status, since they do not carry the general conditions of Article 48 of Law 657 of the staff employed by the ministry under an administrative service contract. The laws imposed before the release of this clause on other issues related to their financial and social rights and employment are continued to be implemented. If the positions of the employed personnel are discharged for any reason, these positions have been cancelled without further processing. (4) The total net amount (except for the fact that the actual work-related overtime fee (except in accordance with the fact that this amount is based on a fixed value), the contract fee they received in the last month on the former positions of the staff, the bonus (the net amount that hits a month), any payment made with any increase and compensations and such names (except in accordance with the actual work-related legislation), the total net amount (except for the amount of overtime due to the actual work, and the amount of compensation for new staff titles will be cut off without notice. (5) As part of this clause, pension compensation is not paid for those assigned and appointed to officers. The total time of service on the basis of pension compensation is taken into account in the account of the total pension period, which will be paid in accordance with Article 8/6/1949 and according to Turkish Republic Retirement Chest Law 5434." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and submit the following amendment of Article 53 of the current Law Proposal of 302 rows. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Alim Light Mehmet Erdoğan Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Subsequently, the following temporary clause has been added to the provisions of Article 53-635. ▪ Appointment of staff working with administrative service agreements Interim Article 7- (1) is a general staff member of the Ministry under the executive service contract and on the 48th Article of Law 657; A) The industry and technology specialist, who serve in positioned positions of the Efficiency Experts, and those who serve in positions of the Efficiency Experts, are considered assigned to the Industrial and Technology Assistants. The time spent in the position of Efficiency Experts of Industry and Technology has been passed on to the industry and Technologies Assistant Efficiency Assistant. B) Those in other positions are appointed to appropriate officers at the Ministry within three months, according to Law Code 657, according to their training status and service time. They continue to take their financial and social rights in their former positions until the appointment is carried out. (2) Under Law 657, non-assigned personnel continue to work with their current status. If the positions of the employed personnel are discharged for any reason, these positions have been cancelled without further processing. (3) The final contract fee for the former positions of the employees appointed under this clause is a monthly fee (the net amount for each month), a bonus (the net amount for each month), every payment (except for working overtime due to the actual labour fee (except according to the current legislation), and a monthly payment for the new staff titles, a bonus (the net amount for each month), every increase and compensation, and any payment (except for the extra work-work fee under the current legislation) will be paid, and will be paid by any amount of taxes, without any amount of compensation. The signatures of the other motion are: Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Namık Havutça Gürkut Acar Ali Haydar Öner Haluk Ahmet Silver Rahmi Spectacular of Love Does the Commission agree with these two proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0157par0306	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0156par0307	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0158par0308	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0156par0309	Who's gonna talk about the nationalist movement party?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0159par0310	Dear Light.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0156par0311	Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0160par0313	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 53 of the Law Proposal, which is known as the 302 rows in question. I hereby salute the honored members of the High Council and all our fellow citizens who follow us. Dear lawmakers, this proposal or our motion is a motion to continue the rights of the staff left in the wake of the closure of Executive Court 635 and the National Productivity Centre. Thus, since this clause is in effect, it is intended to ensure that the new institutions of the National Productivity Centre's new institutions, the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, continue without a lack of rights to the Department of Efficiency. Generally, we agree with this change, but we say that this provision would be more accurate if we maintain the rights that have been earned by the date of effect. On this occasion, I would like to share with you our demands that the rights of our employees be protected is a positive development, but such as those of our employees, who have so far been given many promises and have not been fulfilled, will be granted their rights. As it is known, in accordance with Act 632 issued ahead of the June 12, 2011 elections, around 200,000 contract officers were assigned to the staff of civil servants, especially in private administrations and municipalities, while many public institutions and victims of the 4/C were not recruited. Again, it is the same victimization of technical staff working in temporary labor status, especially in local administrations. On the one hand, despite Mr. Prime Minister's assurances ahead of the election that all contracts will be cast, after which, again, at times, when we bring it up under this lofty roof, the Minister of Labour and Social Security himself said that the work on this matter will continue and that the victims will be resolved as soon as possible, unfortunately, not until a year later. Now, I'd like to share this with you: 4/C, subcontractors, or county private administrations, or municipalities, or villages, who work for many staffed officers, but who have no confidence in their future tomorrow, and we all know that thousands, hundreds of thousands of employees are waiting for this right to be given to others. I hereby urge the government to carry out this task once again and to speed up their efforts to address the victim's victim's victims. Mr. Minister of Labor said: "It is like slavery, it is unacceptable; our work on it continues. " Of course, we are pleased that the work has continued, but the promises made here have not been fulfilled. In fact, over 14 or 15 articles, he said that he agreed on the demands of subcontractors' associations, but the managers of subcontractors' associations came out, and they said, "There is absolutely no such agreement. None of our demands have been met. Thus, this uncertainty must be met. In this sense, the change is positive, but the expectations of hundreds of thousands of people who are waiting for the arrangement need to be fulfilled by looking forward to the outcome. Again, about 220, 000 temporary workers were given a staff on the eve of the 2007 elections, but many temps and seasonal workers who have been waiting for it for years have not been given them. From that time until now, the cries of these temporary workers and seasonal workers have been blocked, and no solution has been given to their problems. The Prime Minister's words have remained seven years earlier, and no steps have been taken until now. I hereby await your support for our motion, once again, to continue with the work of resolving these sacrifices.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0161par0324	Thank you, Mr. Light. Who's going to talk about the same motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0162par0326	Mr. Namik Havutça...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0161par0327	Mr. Havutça, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0163par0329	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I have taken the oath of Article 53 of the Law Proposal 302, and I salute your grand delegation again. Sir, I've just spoken to our friend from the National Productivity Center, who says that national production centers all over the world work in an independent status, so they have an autonomous structure independent of universities, unions, trade organisations. So is the ILO contract, and so is the advice of the International Centre for Efficiency. Now, when we look at this new arrangement, it's connected to the Ministry of Industry, and it's completely connected to a general administration by removing it from its autonomous structure, and it's a completely contrary structure to the government's ILO contracts and against international status, where our friends, these friends of ours, who should be autonomous, should be independent. We ask the Minister and the authorities to remove the loss of the rights of our friends, these civil servants. It is also referred to as offering an option and keeping it in contract status, so that our friends who wish may be granted a status of 657. Mr. President, in the period of the AKP governments, until 2011, there was not a single decree issued in Turkey's rule of law from 2002 to 2011, but in 2011, 35 laws were issued in an instant, and Turkey is being run away from the control of its MPs, representatives of the people and the nation, unfortunately. This provision, for example, has not yet been brought to parliament, making significant changes in the Agency and its duties of the Ministry of National Education, even though it is strictly a matter of emergency decrees in Article 91 of our Constitution. As you know, there have been many verdicts from the duties of teachers, the Ministry of National Education. Now, during the AKP, employees lost a lot of rights. Our employees' 4/B, 4/C, have been eliminated from many different status rights that we can't name, and Turkey has been transformed into almost cheap labour paradise. The employee's rights have been seized one by one. Here, I immediately demand the rights of our public employees by giving up their employment styles as temporary seasonal workers, subcontractors, contract workers, as soon as possible. Again, our teachers, our non-assigned teachers... look, the Prime Minister tells teachers in the election squares in 2002: "This is how you put our teachers to the test, who have read, finished, finished colleges, no, this is no way, this is no way to get jobs." All our teachers will be appointed in our power. He says, in 2002, in the polls. Now I'm asking Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister of National Education. On the contrary, Mr. Minister of National Education says today, by discrediting our teachers, teachers work less, vacation more, pay too much. I address my fellow teachers here in Turkey: O fellow teachers, the Minister of National Education accuses you of underworking and declares you an enemy. Has such a national education minister ever been to Turkey? So look, Mr. Minister of National Education, there are now 200,000 teachers waiting to be appointed in Turkey, and that's how the Prime Minister promised these people in 2002. You're up, unlike teachers, part-time teachers, pay teachers, you want to apply to a status, just like you did with the workers, but in the future, our teachers, our educational staff, they're all going to put it in front of you in the polls, in the local elections. We will do everything in our power to make sure that our teachers receive the rights of their teachers, such as the rights of their education workers, and we will make them the teachers that Ataturk would trust. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0164par0341	Thank you, Mr. Havut. These two motions of the same nature together...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0165par0343	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0164par0344	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit these two motions to your votes together: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. There's enough to make a decision. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 53 of the Law Proposal be changed in the following way. The following temporary clause has been added to the provisions of Article 53-635. The appointment of personnel working under the administrative service contract to the officers' staff Interim Article 7- (1) is one of the staff employed in the Ministry under administrative service contract and under the general conditions prescribed under Article 657 in Article 48 of the Law; A) In the history of the publication of this article, those in positioned positions of efficiency Experts in Industry and Technologies, Assistant Efficiency Experts, and those in positions with titles have been assigned to the Industrial and Technology Assistants. The time spent in the position of Efficiency Experts of Industry and Technology has been passed on to the industry and Technologies Assistant Efficiency Assistant. As part of this bent, the conditions for those assigned to the Industrial and Technology Specialist staff or as part of the Industrial and Technology Assistant staff, added to Law No. 657 (I), are not sought to benefit from the additional indicator figures (g) in the section "I-General Management Services Class" (I) section (G) under which they are referred to as conditions for access to employment. B) The other positions are appointed within three months by the Law provisions 657, considering issues such as training status and position titles. They continue to take their financial and social rights in their former positions until the appointment is carried out. (2) The service time spent in contracted personnel positions at the Ministry with the Multinational Productivity Centre of personnel involved in the first joke is assessed in determining the monthly degrees and levels of rights earned, provided they do not exceed the levels that can be raised based on the conditions of their studies. (3) Those who cannot be appointed to officers continue to work with their current status, since they do not carry the general conditions of Article 48 of Law 657 of the staff employed by the ministry under an administrative service contract. The laws imposed before the release of this clause on other issues related to their financial and social rights and employment are continued to be implemented. If the positions of the employed personnel are discharged for any reason, these positions have been cancelled without further processing. (4) The total net amount (except for the fact that this amount of extra overtime due to the actual legislation) has been paid for the previous positions of the appointed and appointed personnel in the last month, the bonus (the net amount that hits a month), any payment made with all kinds of increases and compensations and such names (except for the fact that it is due to work according to the actual legislation), and that the new staff titles will be paid in full amount without any amount of pay due to any amount of overtime, and will be paid in any amount of compensation, without any amount of any amount of pay due to a month's net amount. (5) As part of this clause, pension compensation is not paid for those assigned and appointed to officers. The total time of service on the basis of pension compensation is taken into account in the account of the total pension period, which will be paid in accordance with Article 8/6/1949 and according to Turkish Republic Retirement Chest Law 5434." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0166par0361	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0164par0362	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0167par0363	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0164par0364	I'm having him read his motive: The practice aims to address possible hesitations. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit to your votes the 53rd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 53rd article has been accepted. There are two motions on Article 54: T. B. M. M. To his presidency. The current bill is 54. In the matter, we would like to change the expression of the deputy director of national education to the deputy director of....... and the deputy director of national education in the district. Celal Dinçer Kazim Kurt Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Pine Engin Altay Veli Agha Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and submit the following amendment of Article 54 of the current Law Proposal of 302 rows. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Alim Light Mehmet Erdoğan Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu The deputy director of national education (also referred to in Article 37) after the declaration of the National Education Ministry of 652, dated 54-25/8/2011 and issued in Article 37 of the Law on the Offices of the National Ministry of Education, has been added. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0168par0386	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0164par0387	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0169par0388	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0164par0389	Motive. It is intended to make matter more understandable. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. T. B. M. M. To his presidency. The current bill is 54. In the matter, we would like to change the expression of the deputy director of national education to the deputy director of....... and the deputy director of national education in the district. Engin Altay (Sinop) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0170par0398	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0164par0399	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0171par0400	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0164par0401	Mr. Altay, come in.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0172par0402	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Now, lawmakers, the government thought we were subcontractors too, because they made a decision under Law 652 and began to enforce it. When you look at this bag of law, it keeps us busy here to correct the errors of the laws of the Law of 652 and other laws. So now that we've done the 37th article of Article No.652, correct it. He can say that, there's nothing wrong with that, but I'm asking the General Assembly: did this decree come to the House, did it pass through the House? He didn't show. He didn't come to the House, the House didn't do any work on all of it, and you're asking us to... now correct my decision in the rule of law. In my opinion, it can't be in terms of the lawmaking technique, it's wrong, but it has to be done. So there's no way to say no to the 54th in particular, which the government has brought in. Well, the government is no longer an inexperienced government, but I can't imagine a ten-year-old government being this clumsy. I'm going to talk about educational matters in a moment. Now, members of lawmakers, I have an important matter I'd like to share with you. There was a massive flood in the districts of Dikmen and Duran in Sinop Province late last night. I just got off the phone with the governor. Mr. Governor... a great disaster, a great disaster of loss of life, the destruction of a county, a miracle... and then I'll tell you why, and I'll thank the Minister of Transport, but we'll ask for support from the ministers sitting there. Congressmans, thank God there were no casualties in both our counties during last night's flood, but the entire infrastructure of both districts has collapsed. Hundreds of large and small animals were destroyed. There are no roads, underground networks, no drinking water in the Durhan and Dikmen district of Sinop Province. Now, two of our ministers are here. Mr. Ministers, Mr. Congressman Mehmet Ersoy will certainly contact you, but we've met with the Congressman, and we'll go to the area tomorrow. I'm asking your government. Sir, there is no loss of life, and there is no need for disaster... don't say what will happen. Basically, a Minister, a government official, has to go to the area. If it hadn't been for Bakili Yıldırım last night, Dikmen County would have been wiped out of history by now. Congressmans, a road has been filled from the edge of Dikmen district. A great road was made from the edge of the tea with the filling, and the Dikmen Tea, which we called Kanlıçay, was then moved to the well-named Bloodycay, which saved the town, but the road was all gone, so the trillions of money that the state had spent went to tea, went to the sea, but, let alone, the nose of one of my only planted countrymen didn't bleed. Now, surely the highways will make the way. There's the minister in charge of welfare. Minister, I'll go tomorrow, and Mr. Ersoy will go, so please come and see the view in place. Let's close our citizens' wounds quickly. The province will surely have a demand for disaster in the region. We expect the government to help us with this, we expect help. On this occasion, on behalf of Parliament, and on behalf of you, I wish the people of the region to be well past. We have wounded, and I wish them a speedy recovery. Our greatest consolation is that there is no loss of life, but once again, Mr. Government, the landscape in our Durhanan and Dikmen counties has turned into an unintended settlement, and so have our two counties. In this regard, we expect support from the government, Parliament. - There's nothing we can do about this law. This has to go through technically, but I'm warning the government once again: do your job right, if you can't. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0173par0416	Thank you, Mr. Altay. I will submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0174par0418	Mr. President, the decision is enough.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0173par0419	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... I'm doing electronics; I'll give you a minute. Here you go. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient; the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 54 to your votes: Those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 54 is accepted. There are two motions on Article 55: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 55 of the current bill number 302. We offer and propose that the terms in the article of ▪40,000 teachers will be changed to 100,000 teachers. Kazim Kurt Aydın Ayyadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Mahmut Tanal Musa Pine Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Article 55 of the current Law Proposal of 302 rows, as follows. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Alim Light Mehmet Erdoğan Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Rusar Demirel The following temporary clause has been added to the provisions of Law 55-652. Of the free teachers assigned to the Ministry, 70,000 teachers are appointed in 2012, without constraints from 21/12/2011 and the 2012 Central Management Budget Act 6260. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0175par0444	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0173par0445	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0176par0446	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0173par0447	Who's gonna talk? Mr. Demirel, come in.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0177par0450	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I have received word on our motion as the National Movement Party Group. It's about how many teachers will be assigned. There is a figure in the government's bill. We sat as a party group, we calculated, according to what, 40,000? Obviously, we haven't found a formula, but after we've moved on to 4+4+4, we've determined that a minimum of 70,000 teachers can only be appointed as a result of changes in schools. However, in the coming text, there is an expression such as,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, that can be done, and we demand that it be translated into an absolute sentence called,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. After these statements, I would like the Commission and the Minister to attend. While we're on the promise of education, I'd like to discuss a few things while our Minister of Family and Social Policy is here, a final arrangement for education concerning women and family. There is a statement from Mr. Omar Dinçer of 28/11/1997 that the schools, which were opened on the basis of the Schools of Education and Nutrition No. 8983, will be closed in time. He believes his ministry will close these schools and convert them into elementary schools and secondary schools, especially schools in İstanbul, with the date of 19 June 2012 and 9601, as a privilege reserved for a particular class of education and nutritional schools, Mr. Minister. And I'd like to remind Mr. Family and Social Policy Minister that while he's here, he can discuss it with our Minister of National Education. Because education schools, nutrition and education schools, parents are schools that serve children who work. If it's possible, a mother's work must be questioned by the government, which has failed to attribute this privilege to the general. Schools of education, feeding schools are not a privilege. If we want to increase women's employment in our country, if we can't pay their children a fee that they won't be able to worry about while they're working, how do we increase the number of education and nutrition schools that are best available for these children, the government, which has not increased in the past decade? While it should be, Mr. Minister says that these schools will be closed as of June 19, 2010, as of the following three years. I'd like to ask Mr. Fatma Sahin. As a mother, I think she'll discuss it with the Minister of National Education, and since she's having another meeting right now, I think they'll be given to her from the transcripts. But, of course, with such radical decisions being made, sometimes people can be too radical with the power of the seat they're sitting in. There's just been a news bulletin about former French President Sarkozy. At the moment, the house of Sarkozy is being searched by special authorities. You know, we have a famous Turkish elder who says: "He's like a stone tied to a beret, neither flies nor swims with it." So I think that I can set a precedent for some of the examples of Sarkozy. And I'm protecting within myself that all women, especially our women MPs in parliament, should be sensitive, that Mr. Minister of National Education might be able to take a step back in the matter of abortion, perhaps. Because we working mothers always worry about where our children are in our working hours. You fathers know that, but there's more in mothers than there is in mothers, mothers usually use half their brains for their children. So, I see it as a chance for Mr. Minister of Family and Social Policy to be in the living room, and I have a feeling that with a meeting with the Minister's Minister of National Education, there may be an effort to increase the number of education schools, not shut down. I invite you all to support our motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0178par0458	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0179par0462	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0178par0463	We'll meet the roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Trust, Mr. Altay, Mr. Acar, Mr. Fırat, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Öner, Mr. Develi, Mr. Öz, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Logoglu, Mr. Yıldız, Mr. Kuruturk, Mr. Kaleli. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 55 of the current bill number 302. We offer and propose the exchange of ▪ 40,000 teachers' terms in the article to 100,000 teachers. Kazim Kurt (Eskişehir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0180par0479	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0178par0480	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0181par0481	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0178par0482	Mr. Altay, come in.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0182par0484	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, lawmakers, let me say it again in terms of both reporting and falling into history. There is no clause added or added to the order of the Parliament to the decree of the law that has not been passed, has not been spoken, has not been passed, has not been passed. In terms of legal technique, not in terms of law technique, there's no example, but you're making a mistake, do it, one day it'll turn around, and the wrong account will come back from Baghdad, and I'll tell you about it first. Now, from the first years your government and the Prime Minister have often said, there is one thing they forget these days: education, safety, justice. These three issues...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0183par0487	There's health.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0182par0488	Sorry, yes, there's health. He said these are very important.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0184par0490	I'm offended.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0182par0491	I quit smoking, stop. In health, of course, there are a lot of problems, but now, about education, safety, justice, justice, not counting. Congressman, now that I think about it, what am I supposed to say in five minutes? And I'll tell you something else: now, look, you bring this here, you get the bag, you get it right. Now, in this 55th article, which I have promised, you say: "The following temporary clause has been added to the decree of the law." 9 - 40,000 of the free teachers assigned to the Ministry are available. Forty thousand will be forty thousand, not 55, but fifty-six if it is accepted. If something happens, 56 won't be accepted, it's invalid, so at least do it right. There must also be a change of venue, Mr. Government, Mr. Commission. You're doing 30,000 jobs at 56, and then 55, before that, you're saying that there are 40,000 empty staffs. Where do you have them? There's no such thing as now, if 56 passes, it will exist. Has 56 been discussed? It wasn't discussed.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0185par0497	It'll pass, it'll pass.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0186par0498	Don't shout, just slow down.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0182par0499	Sir, wait a minute, this is wrong, so look, you're laughing. Dear lawmakers, this Parliament will have a very old Parliament, a new parliament of a newly established state, and we'll say, "Yes, there will be technical mistakes." In a 90-year-old parliament, over 80 years, that's a shame. That's a shame. Pull the ears off your party's technical staff regarding the law. That's not gonna happen. Here's to our teachers. I call them my teachers, even if you don't. Because they read that we're going to be teachers with the taxes this nation pays, with the sacrifices of their mothers and fathers. Each occasion, four years later, they dreamed of meeting their children, and they went through those processes. Congressmans, we're out of hair. So I want you to know that as long as we have the Republican People's Party, as long as we have the problems of the teachers that you are not tirelessly, tirelessly appointing -- not you -- the government -- we will continue to talk, keep warm on the agenda of the House. Now, Mr. Prime Minister, I hope he's watching the House now, where he is. Mr. Prime Minister, as a teacher's MP, remember what you said in 2002 in Samsun, in Antwerp, in Alexei, and in Istanbul. Then get in front of the mirror, I said this, I said this, I told these people that I would destroy and erase the concept of the unregistered teacher in Turkey. Yes, it's not for me. Call the Minister of National Education and listen to him. Not only did your Minister of National Education fail to keep your promise, he became an enemy of the unappointed and the teachers within the system. There's no enemy to the teacher, no minister of national education in our republic's history. That's all there is to it. I don't know where you got this. I don't know if the Prime Minister's been looking for this a lot. He stopped, and now, the Minister of National Education is dealing with our teachers, former national education ministers. Not with the national education ministers of another party. So what's wrong with the Lady of the Blessing Bar -- she's dealing with it, I don't understand -- or Hussain Çelik, or Erkan Mumcu. What kind of a thing is that? The Minister of National Education is an unfit minister for national education. Now, I'll tell you your 40,000 lies. You don't have 40,000 staff. You've got 10,000 pensioners now, and you're about to lose 30,000, 40 grand. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Your Honor, the teacher will graduate at the end of the school year of 48, 2011-2012.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0187par0506	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0182par0507	I'll finish right away, Mr. President. Only 48,000 teachers in this school year will open their arms and wait for your help. You've already got 10,000 retired teachers - 40,000 staff, you say.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0187par0509	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0182par0510	I'm ending it, Mr. President. At least with our motion -- it won't solve your problem -- let's get 100,000 casts through this House and make it feel like a holiday in Turkey tonight. You must accept this motion. We don't tell your teacher who taught you a letter that you should be his slave for 40 years, but we're offering you an opportunity to pay off your teacher who taught you a letter. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0188par0515	Thank you, Mr. Altay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 55th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 55th article is accepted. Mr. Ersoy has entered the system. There's a short word request. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0189par0522	Thank you, Mr. President. And I give my condolences to all our citizens who were victims of last night's flood in Sinop County. It was really lucky we didn't lose our lives. All of our government's institutions, especially our Sinop Governor, are doing everything in their power to eliminate the victims of our citizens with all the resources of the state. During talks with both our prime minister and the Ministry of Social Policy during the day, significant distances have been taken at the point of making amends for any damage, and the emergency assistance allowance our government requested is immediately earmarked for Sinop Governorate. From now on, any assessments made by the subsidiaries and relevant institutions will be met immediately and will try to eliminate the victims of our citizens as soon as possible. Thank you for your promise.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0190par0526	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. [[Continue]] There are three motions on item 56, which I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 302 rows, is 56. In addition, we offer and propose to add a table to which 1,000 professor staffs in our country will be tendered in order to meet the staff needs of other universities in our country. Kazim Kurt Aydın Ayyadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Musa Pine Mahmut Tanal Namik Havutça Mehmet Ali Editoglu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the addition of the following bend to the frame 56th article of the current Law Proposal 302 rows, and the replacement of the ruler of the National Education Ministry, which is included in the accompanying List of Number 1 of National Education, and the addition and addition of the ruler to the following chapter on the Ministry of Diet Affairs. Mustafa Kalaycı Alim İlk Erkan Akçay Mehmet Erdoğan Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Those who serve as deputy imams and honorary Koran instructors are appointed directly to the staff for the rural organization. Class Title Degree Free Staff Total EOH Teacher 1-9 150,000 150,000 150,000 GİH Branch Director 1 950 950 TOPLAM 150.950 150.950 Class Title Degree Free Staff Total Imam-Hapi 1-9 3000 Honorary Koran Teacher 1-9 1,000 TOPLAM 4,000 4,000 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to introduce to the list (1) the addition of the following paintings, following a picture of the employment of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, and propose that the declaration of "VHKI" in the table on the charge of staff to the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology will be changed in the following way. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can from Nurettin Canikli H. Bayram Türkoğlu Osman Boyraz Shirin Ünal Osman Çakır H. Hami Yıldırım The department of National Education (1) of Cetvelin, Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Ministry of Higher Education, Chairman of Security, Security Directorate of Diyanet Affairs, Sedition, Election and Location Centre, and Office of Higher Education, and the General Directorate of Higher Education (1); the branch of the Court of Higher Education (1); the department of higher education, Ministry of Science, Ministry of Industry and Technology, Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Department of Education, and the Office of Security, Department of Security, and the Office of Higher Education and Institution of Higher Education and the Office of Higher Education of the United States of the United States. (KURUMURUM: FAMILY AND SOCIAL POLICY Class Title Degree Free Staff Total GİH Branch Manager 1 6 The President of the High School Class Title Degree Free Staff Total GİH Presidential Counsellor 15 Title Level I Number Cetvel II Cetvel Title Level I Number Cetvel II Cetvel Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0191par0610	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0190par0611	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0192par0612	We agree, Your Honor.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0190par0613	Motive... Reason: The need for the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is essential and the dissolution of staff assigned to the University of 100 Years is redefined in line with needs. It is also intended to violate the office of advisor to the chairman of the Higher Education Board and to change the class of security services of the service class of the staff with the general management service class in the department of the State General Directorate (I) in the section of the Executive Directorate of the Court of Law No. 190. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the addition of the following bend to the frame 56th article of the current Law Proposal 302 rows, and the replacement of the ruler of the National Education Ministry, which is included in the accompanying List of Number 1 of National Education, and the addition and addition of the ruler to the following chapter on the Ministry of Diet Affairs. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Those who serve as deputy imams and honorary Koran instructors are appointed directly to the staff for the rural organization. Class Title Degree Free Staff Total EOH Teacher 1-9 150,000 150,000 150,000 GİH Branch Director 1 950 950 TOPLAM 150.950 150.950 Class Title Degree Free Staff Total Imam-Hapi 1-9 3000 Honorary Koran Teacher 1-9 1,000 TOPLAM 4,000 4,000 Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0193par0638	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0190par0639	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0194par0640	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0190par0641	Mr. Erdogan, come in.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0195par0643	Reverend President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 56 of Law Proposal No. 302. I salute your high council. I ask God's mercy on our policeman, who was martyred last night in Van. I offer my condolences to his relatives. Now, you're releasing 40,000 teachers, and you're looking at 30,000 new teachers. Of course, that's not enough. We propose that at least 150,000 of the staff be replaced. In addition, with this change, you will appoint 40,000 teachers, 30,000 teachers, 70,000 teachers, and the truth is, it is unclear. It's unclear if you'll make these appointments before the schools open. You messed up the system with the 4+4+4 system. I don't know what's going to happen to the homeroom teachers and pre-school teachers who are victims of the new system you rushed in. Of course, these positions you've taken won't be enough. In the new era, it's unclear whether you're going to hire non-teachers to teach, instead, or whether you're going to hire people who have earned the right to teach as paid teachers. No regulation on teachers' rights is included in this bill. Again, according to the Minister of National Education's statement, you reduce the number of lessons in Turkish, but you don't know what you're going to replace it with. Again, you're charging 30,000 police personnel with this clause. When are you going to use these staffs, I'm afraid there's no opening. Of course, in your time of power, unemployment has taken its toll. There's a lot of applying for police work. Don't think everybody wants to be a cop. People want to be cops because they're desperate, because they can't find work anywhere else. You're short-staffed, but you never think about improving police rights, pension issues, working conditions. You don't judge any of these things within this law whether it's a bag or a soup or a sack or something. He's been working as a thousand imam-gatherers. There's a lot of mosques that don't have an Imam-strength staff. At least, according to our proposal, add 3,000 new casts and appoint those who deserve them. Let the embassies, concerned about tomorrows, both under very difficult circumstances, and let our citizens be free of such concerns, uncertainty, despair, and have the right religious knowledge. Again, there is no ruling on this bill regarding the modern duties in the public. What will happen to the 4/C? What about the subcontractors? I'm afraid there's no sentence in that offer. You have no justice, no mercy for the people of 4/C, and those who work on subcontractors. HSYK has closed the court of 146 districts. They've reopened 44 of it, but they haven't told us why they did it, of course, so much here, but we know that the main reason they're doing this is by saving a few hundred judges to move them to big cities, where there's more people, where things are denser. At least, my friends, let's build up a thousand judge staffs. Let's give these small counties that we've committed to and open up the courthouses there. Don't let our courts close because we don't have a judge. There's no saving justice. If he's come to the point of saving justice, then this country has reached bankruptcy. Again, the appointment of specialist sergeants whose contract expires is entirely at the pleasure of power. It's got to be connected to a reasonable, logical system. There's got to be a rule. Unlawful is where pleasure begins. Now, as you know, there's a identifiable decree on attending sergeants, but it's unclear who's appointed, how they're appointed, what order they're assigned to, what order they're assigned to. This ambiguity keeps getting more and more out of hand, depending on the status of an open posting, the three or five he chooses from these, but most of them are out of work. These people, who served in the East for some time, who had children, are suffering from desperation. At the very least, let's put this decision into this bill of law regarding the first deployment of these in certain security units. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0196par0656	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 302 rows, is 56. In addition, we offer and propose to add a table to which 1,000 professor staffs in our country will be tendered in order to meet the staff needs of other universities in our country. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0197par0663	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0196par0664	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0198par0665	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0196par0666	Here you are, Mr. Ediboglu.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0199par0668	Mr. President, distinguished members, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on Article 56 of the 302. First, I'd like to share with you a message I just received. I have received a message, saying, "Put us in the bag, in the soup, in the sack, or wherever you put us, or in the grave." I want to share it with you. Now, friends, in this speech, I have promised to express the problems of the workers of security services, who are thought to have been spoken of and given a raise 100 times, but have always been given a raise. And since it's about the police again, I'd like to ask God's mercy on our cop who was killed yesterday in Van. And my condolences to his relatives and to our nation. In the democratic law state, citizens, such as military, meet certain obligations to the state, such as paying taxes, are also expected by the state. They expect certain rights, such as education, health, safety, fair trial, to be guaranteed by the state. Dear lawmakers, in order to ensure general security, prevent crime, implement criminal justice, protect basic rights and freedoms and develop democracy, our law enforcement agency heads up the agencies that offer public service. Unfortunately, in our country, there is a negative prejudice about the police department across the community. There's no denying that some of our police officers contributed to these prejudices. As it is known, recently, police violence, non-proportionate use of force caused the retired Metin Lokumcu to lose his life, and in the demonstrations of democratic protests throughout Turkey, we also witnessed ugly images of police using disproportionate force, using pepper gas, and not liking the public, not liking the public, beating young people, girls. Again, for example, the beating of the woman at the police station in İzmir, which was installed on the MOBESE cameras again, was not elegant on our country's behalf. It's possible to replicate such examples. As with every institution, there are rotten apples in safety, and we will extract them. In fact, the breaking of this prejudice would be possible if the quality of service was increased, the political institution and politicians withdrew their hand from the police force, the removal of favourability in appointments, the adoption of the merit criteria and promotions rather than loyalty, the review of the police's human resources policy, the removal of autonomy rights and personnel issues. In addition, while security services are being produced, a civic-focused security agency should be formed with the basis for its existence. The most important responsibility here is to the government and the Home Secretary. As in Uludere, we can't punish these prejudices by protecting the bomber and putting the pilots who dropped the bomb on the target board, which carried out the order and writing the February 28th note, by hiring armored vehicles and patting them on the back when they retired, but by forcing the patriot officers of our army who attended the meetings by his command to stick to Silivri, by punishing the workers, the worker, the pensioner, the student's democratic right when they go out on the street and order to use violence. In my many years of practice as a physician, I've been on watch with my fellow police officers, and I've been part of their problems from time to time. Their biggest problem is overtime, fellas. They're working a hundred and thirty overtime a month, and it doesn't fit in human rights or the European Bill of Rights. The overtime they get is $240 plus the pay, and that's not for overtime. And the police chiefs never turn off their radios, they're always needed. Therefore, either their shifts should be reduced or their wages should be increased. Instead of loyalty or other relationships, merit is promoted, benchmarking is the highest demand. I'd also like to say that our brothers in law enforcement are the most sought-after groups in psychiatric clinics. We also know that 300 cops have committed suicide in the last 10 years. Victims in retirement. While a petty officer on the same mission retires with a 3.650 additional indicators, a cop retires with 650 additional indicators... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's an unacceptable fact to be corrected, and it's all being asked to be corrected together. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0200par0684	Thank you, Mr. Ediboglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the earlier motion, I submit to your votes the 56th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 57: Law number 302 is 57. We demand and demand that the 5th joke be changed in the following way. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Melda Onur Namik Havutça Kamer Young Sinan Aygün Turgay Develi About media service providers who have not given the notice due to the third joke; and administrative fines are imposed on those who have failed to provide information or provide media services during the period of the fourth joke, and on those who have failed to fulfil their obligations or lack commercial communication revenues, and on those who have been subjected to breaches in the month before the month of the month before. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and submit the following amendment of Article 57 of the current Law Proposal of 302 rows. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Alim Light Mehmet Erdoğan Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu The third joke of Article 42 of the Law on the Foundation and Publishing Services of Radio and Television No. 6112, dated 57 - 15/12/2011, has been changed as follows, and the following jokes have been added to the article. (3) Media service providers declare the commercial communication revenues they receive within each calendar month, provided by the Supreme Council to be given shape and content by the following month, even if they have not earned income during the period. (4) Those who media service providers and broker commercial communication revenues organise legal ledger records to ensure that commercial communication revenues, which are essential to calculating the upper board share, can be identified correctly. Those who media service providers and broker commercial communication revenues are obliged by the Oversight Board to provide and submit books and documents related to them as they are being examined by authorities for tax reviewing or by the Finance Ministry in relation to the detection of commercial communication revenues that are essential to the calculation of the upper board's share. Information is requested in writing and given 15 days to respond. Those who will not be able to carry out their notifications and debrief due to their difficult circumstances may be given an extension of the legal deadline, provided that writing and request are granted before the deadline is completed, and the excuse specified at the request is accepted. (5) Regarding media service providers who have not given the notice due to the third joke, five thousand Turkish liras have been imposed on those who have failed to fulfil their information and Hebrew obligations in their fourth joke, or failed to meet the period of their media service providers and commercial communication revenues, the fine is imposed on those who have been subjected to an administrative fine of ten thousand Turkish liras. In this joke, administrative fines are imposed by 50 per cent on radio companies. (6) If the first joke of Article 41 of the Law (a), (b), (c), (c) and (c) are not paid in the duration of the income of the Overcommittee, those revenues will be paid at the rate of a delay rate of 21/7/1953, and on Article 51 of the Law on the collection of Amme Acquisitions of 6183. (7) According to the third joke, media service providers will be notified of the payment of their Oversight income within 30 days of determining whether or not commercial communication revenues should be announced during the duration of which they should be reported missing. The Supreme Council will be paid in 30 days following the date of the income statement, which has been announced by media service providers after its deadline. According to the third joke, interest is applied as part of the sixth joke, which has passed from date to date when it should be declared or missing in the duration of its upper council income. The higher-committee income, which is not paid during (8), is collected according to general provisions." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0201par0709	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0200par0710	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0202par0711	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0200par0712	Who's going to talk from the National Movement Party?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0203par0713	Motive, sir...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0200par0714	Motive... It is intended to make matter more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Law number 302 is 57. I demand and demand that the 5th article be changed in the following way. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends About media service providers who have not given the notice due to the third joke; and administrative fines are imposed on those who have failed to provide information or provide media services during the period of the fourth joke, and on those who have failed to fulfil their obligations or lack commercial communication revenues, and on those who have been subjected to breaches in the month before the month of the month before. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0204par0724	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0200par0725	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0205par0726	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0200par0727	Here you go, Mr. Develi.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0206par0729	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In essence, this is a mandatory clause in the order of the issue, a restructuring of a ruling that the Constitutional Court has cancelled. For nearly 18 years, televisions, media providers have been run by this material. For some reason, this amendment, which was renewed just a year ago, was cancelled after a publishing company applied to the administration court, and the administrative court had to appeal to the Constitutional Court. The cancelled item would cancel the licenses of television companies, radio companies, who had not invested their upper board shares in two months. Now, for the first time, after 18 years, the dissolution of licenses of top-committee companies, which don't invest in ads, has been removed, instead of fines. Two questions come to mind: for the first time in 18 years, the Supreme Court is appealing to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court is removing it. I'm going to follow this, but technically it had to be arranged because he couldn't pay for the upper board, and he couldn't pay for it? However, I would like to present to you another interesting article about the press: The fourth joke of Article 132 of the Penal Code was the same: ▪ If the content of communications between individuals is published by the press and by publication, the punishment will be increased by half, in the new, modified article, which is divided into 6 articles, but not only in the 6th article, it is not a crime to be reported without information. Now, the vague answer was left to the judge's discretion. Since the 2006s, 2007s, 2008s -- you know -- society engineering began in Turkey. Someone's been handing over unaccounted-for tapes, voice talks, newspapers, televisions, websites, and they've been posting them. Then the judges, the elders of the community, the victims of this work, the politicians, God Almighty, should not be published according to the law, these are crimes, how do they publish them? From that day on, public engineering is on the agenda of today, such as Ergenekon, which creates the infrastructure of cases like this, cases such as ACK, newspapers and televisions, images published on websites, journalists and newspapers broadcasting the news. The piled-up files were now in the final stages. The public-engineered journalists were now going to prison because they committed this crime. With this clause, this arrangement saved our friends from going to prison. So that's what's in the government's best interest... those who've been using these tools to do community engineering for nearly six years or who've done the job, they've been saved from going to prison with this law clause. There's another interesting development when it comes to televisions, folks. Turksat, you know, through satellites, uses the satellite frequencies of televisions, uses their capacity. The other day, at the CIT Commission, I asked Turksat. What television channels do you not collect your money from? Guess which ones? As you might think, certain televisions, friends: $325,000 of Channel White TV, $1,266,000 of Channel 24 television, $233,000 of Channel Turk. They're so big, they're for a TV. Turksat is not rescinding or rescinding their contract. So, on the one hand, these televisions are being filmed by government opportunities, while journalists are being saved from going to prison. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0207par0738	Thank you, Mr. Develi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 57th article to your votes: those who accept...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0208par0741	Mr. President, I have a brief request for a clause from the vote, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0207par0742	Oh, yeah? Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0208par0744	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, this clause will be voted, but I want to say that the substance is very problematic, that there are problems with its writing, and that if it's legalized in this way, it's going to create major problems. In Article 57, the service providers of media services, number (3), state the commercial communication revenues they receive within each calendar month, even if they have not earned income during the period of the period. There is a decree in the form of a declaration, meaning that they will declare income even if they have not earned income during the period of interest.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0209par0746	He'll make a statement, but...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0208par0747	But it's not written like that. The intent is different, but my writing doesn't meet that intention. While describing the obligation of a taxpayer to give a declaration, he declares his income even if he has not earned income during the period concerned. There can be no sentence in Turkish. The second thing I'm going to say is that there's a sentence in Number 5 in Article 5 that says: "There is a process for those who have not given the notice of media service providers who have expired, even though the term for which they should be given according to the third joke has expired." This is what it should be written: this is what happens about those who don't give the exercise in the duration of the ceremony. There's an article here that I can't even say amateurly when it's supposed to be called. The article's fourth joke, again, is that information can be given due to the fact that they are in a difficult situation and that it can be extended to those who are unable to carry out their paper on the basis of the period. The difficult situation is not defined. This would also be an important deficiency, or a difficult situation would be appointed according to the Tax Law. A sentence in the form of a tax law could be placed. It's not written either. It's a very troubled, amateur-written substance. I don't think this clause should be voted on. A technical study of matter can be done, corrected, if necessary, but given the majority's will, we'd be enforcing a false law. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0210par0751	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0211par0752	Mr. President, I want a word, too.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0210par0753	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0211par0754	Thank you, Mr. President. What Mr. Hamzacebi just pointed out is important. Well, the expression speaks for itself, but it can be expressed better, and I agree with that. So if we can get him to postpone his vote, Mr. President, together, we'll be able to correct those statements...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0210par0756	You're requesting a rewrite.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0211par0757	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0210par0758	Okay.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0212par0759	Then we'll have to negotiate again, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0211par0760	No, no, no, no vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0210par0761	I'm not voting, then.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0212par0762	Although the vote has already been taken, it is necessary to discuss the monopoly now because the proceedings have been made, the motions have been rejected, so it is only possible to address this clause through a technical negotiation.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit03spe0210par0763	I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit04spe0210par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 131st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 302 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission has a request to amend it before the 57th Amendment vote. Here you go, Mr. Commission.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit04spe0213par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. In accordance with the matter expressed by Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, our friends have done the necessary work, and although they did not receive income at the time of the 3/7 article of Law Proposal No. 302 to correct the meaning of the sentence, we are ordering the statement to be changed in the terms of the reference to the end of the joke, even if the income was not obtained during the relevant period.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit04spe0210par0008	With this request for a reduction, I submit the 57th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, there are three motions for a new substance violation. As you know, the proposed bill or proposal is the fourth clause of Article 87 of the Interior Charter, which does not exist in the commission text of the law, but wants to change a clause that is very closely related to the bill or proposal, and will be discussed as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has attended most of the time. According to Article 91, the meeting of the Civil Code as a new clause will be discussed on the motions the commission has already attended, and the number of motions laid out in this article may be submitted. Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the Commission. If the commission joins the motion with the majority of the 21 members, I will open the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Now, I'm going to read the first motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the proposal of the Law to change certain laws and laws that are being passed. Nurettin Canikli M. Akif Hamzacebi Mehmet Doğan Kubat Alim Işım Hasip Kaplan Farit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu The fourth joke of Article 6 of Turkish Trade Law No. 6102, dated 58-13/1/2011, has been lifted. Does the commission generally agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit04spe0214par0021	We have only a majority, we agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit04spe0210par0022	Since the commission has only participated in the motion so often, I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Anybody want a word? No. No questions, no answers. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Thus, a new clause is added to the proposal. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current Law Proposal 302 rows. Nurettin Canikli Salih Big Erkan Akçay Bulent Turan Gökçen Özdoğan Enç Nesrin Ulema Nurdan Şanlı Ali Ercoşkun Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Hasip Kaplan Israel Barrack Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu Article 59-31/12/1960 of income tax law 193; A) The second joke of Article 75, dated 31/5/2012 and added by Article 8 of Law 6322 to the second article, is the number of the bendin.17. B) The first joke of Article 94, added to Article 10 of Law 6322 and number 16 of the bendin.17. It's been changed. Does the Commission agree with the majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit04spe0215par0043	We have only a majority, we agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit04spe0210par0044	Since Salt was mostly involved, I'm opening a meeting with the Commission's motion as a new clause. Vocabulary? No. No questions, no answers. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion has been accepted and thus, a new substance has been violated. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the proposal of the Law to change certain Laws and Laws in the following 302 rows, and that other substances be identified accordingly. == sync, corrected by elderman == Nur Serter Prof. Dr. Hülya Trust Flood Köse Aykan Erdemir Ali İhsan Kokturk The first joke (a) of Article 87 of Article 60 of Article 5510 has been changed in the following way. For those who are subject to the first joke of the 4th article (a) and (c)bends of the 5th article (a) their employers, (a) those who are subject to a full-term contract of employment in the home services, their employers, their employees, and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, and 50% of those who work with a partial employment contract in the home ministry and 50% of their employers. Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit04spe0216par0058	We don't have just the majority...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit04spe0217par0059	Invite him, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit04spe0216par0060	Yes, I'd like to invite you if, of course, anyone would like to join... We don't have a majority, we can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit04spe0218par0062	Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. Thus, the current text of the proposal was added to the new 58 and 59. During the writing of the law, this clause will be added and other matter numbers will be identified. We will proceed with the current provisions of the Commission report, which is being discussed to avoid any confusion. Congressmans, I'm taking a 30-minute break.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0218par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 131st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 302 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Now, there are three proposals above the interim article 1. I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the addition of the following joke to the temporary article 1 of the current Law Proposal. Mustafa Elitaş Recep of Nurettin Canikli Special Hilmi Bilgin Yusuf Başer Bulent Turan Ramazan Can Smurf Unal Hüseyin Burge Mine Leuk White Abdulkerim Sky Oğuz Khan Koksal "In 1997 and later years, the student body of Turkish Armed Forces entered and was voluntarily discharged from military school or was discharged from military school without medical grounds; even if it is written on the transfer and bail bonds, the costs of medicine and treatment, book, stationage expenses, half of student allowance and interest related to food costs and interest are not taken back. Those who have continued to pay on the basis of this clause, and those who have been indicted on the subject, or who have been given a final ruling, are also entitled to those provisions. As for those who have overpaid within the scope of this clause, they are not paid back to those who have completed payment before the date of this clause. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this clause are determined jointly by the Finance Ministry and the National Ministry of Defence." T. B. M. To the M presidency The current bill is temporary. At the end of the clause, we would like to change the statement to ▪ the process of tracking debt, which has not been started or initiated to any form of debt. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Celal Dinçer Veli Ağbaba Ali Özgündün Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Interim 1st Amendment of the current Law Proposal 302 rows be changed as follows. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Alim Light Mehmet Erdoğan Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu "Current Article 1- The debt obligations of those who have studied at military schools at all levels or Turkish Armed Forces at faculty and institutes of higher education and students who have been suspended from each level of training institutions to be assigned to the Security Agency, and those who have failed to complete education institutions or educational institutions outside of these educational institutions and have failed to carry out their obligation to serve the mandatory service will be eliminated by the law required by the time this clause is in effect. The debtor himself, his heirs or his guarantors will be terminated from the process of tracking debt, which has begun in connection with the obligations under this clause." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0219par0032	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0218par0033	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0220par0034	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0218par0035	Motive... Reason: The AKP's mentality, which is allergic to our national identity, must be a new manifestation of its understanding of Turkey's Turkic society, is attempting to extract even the Turkish word from the name of the Turkish Armed Forces. The Turkish Armed Forces are intended to be properly written. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. T. B. M. To the M presidency The current bill is temporary. At the end of the clause, we would like to change the statement to ▪ the process of tracking debt, which has not been started or initiated to any form of debt. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0221par0043	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0218par0044	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0222par0045	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0218par0046	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0223par0047	Mr. Original...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0218par0048	Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0224par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends have arranged for the dissolution of the debts of those who have passed away before they have completed their mandatory service in temporary 1st article, military schools, or police schools, or other schools to the public account. We support this clause, we support it as the Republican People's Party Group. However, dear friends, I don't know who owns this bag of legislation, what minister on behalf of the government, but, on May 9th, about two months ago -- not even two months ago -- a bill of 201 rows was discussed here, the draft bill on the basic provisions of the elections and the Voter Logs. There, we discussed in the Commission -- fellow members of the Justice Commission here -- Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, who is in the Commission representing the government, approved our proposal and other opposition parties' proposals, a clause was issued in the General Assembly. This article reduces the two years of the election period to six months, which was held in Article 180 of the Law on the Basic Decisions of Elections 298 and the Voter Logs for Election Crimes, which we removed just two months ago. Now that you've brought the bag back with the law, you've put it in the 4th article. Dear friends, I really don't understand, so what happened two months ago? Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, your MP Mehmet Doğan Kubat, Ali Ercoshkun, Nurdan Şanlı, Tülay Kaynarça has made a motion here and that clause has been removed. Now I don't know what you brought back. Dear friends, you know what you brought? If in six months there is no case against those who destroy the crates, use false votes, tear up the voter logs, break up the voter logs, distribute them. I mean, who, with special advice, is promised to someone, someone's pissed at you, you brought this change back in and out of here before the two months were over, and I really don't get it. Dear friends, you forgive those who set up the false voter log of Article 298 under Article 142, you pardon the reciprocal recording of Article 144; you pardon the fact that you don't hang the voter register in Article 147; you pardon the fact that you don't want to put it down before its time; you forgive the fact that you're not going to vote; you're not going to take away the vote; you really understand that I'm not going to commit or break it, you're going to destroy it; you're not going to do it for three years; you're going to stop the vote; you're going to forgive the vote; you're going to forgive the vote; you're going to forgive the vote; you're not going to take away the vote; you're going to vote; you're not going to vote; you're not going to steal it; you're not going to steal it, you're going to do it. Two months ago, in the name of the government, Bekir Bozdağ attended and we took it out. Now, again, you have brought this as the fourth article. After this law is passed, I'm going to ask the Justice Department who took advantage of this law, and I'm going to ask them one by one, and I'm going to find out who those people are, whether they're connected to your party or not, and I'm going to explain it here, and I'm going to announce it to the public. You're doing a very wrong job, so this clause, which has to be passed through the Justice and Constitution Commission, goes through the Plan and Budget Commission against the Civil Code, and it comes here. And I'm sure you all agreed by raising your hand, not knowing what it was -- those who agreed, those who didn't. You've done it wrong, dear friends. You forgive many complications, many organized crime networks, those who committed these crimes. I'm making a note of that as well. I hereby salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0225par0060	Thank you, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0226par0061	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0225par0062	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is enough of a decision, there is not enough, the motion is not accepted. We offer and propose the addition of the following joke to the temporary article 1 of the current Law Proposal. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends "In 1997 and later years, the student body of Turkish Armed Forces entered and was voluntarily discharged from military school or was discharged from military school without medical grounds; even if it is written on the transfer and bail bonds, the costs of medicine and treatment, book, stationage expenses, half of student allowance and interest related to food costs and interest are not taken back. Those who have continued to pay on the basis of this clause, and those who have been indicted on the subject, or who have been given a final ruling, are also entitled to those provisions. As for those who have overpaid within the scope of this clause, they are not paid back to those who have completed payment before the date of this clause. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this clause are determined jointly by the Finance Ministry and the National Ministry of Defence." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0227par0069	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0225par0070	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0228par0071	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0229par0072	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0225par0073	Motive... In 1997 and later years, he entered the educational institution of all levels of Turkish Armed Forces, and was intended to provide them with ease to pay for those who have been voluntarily discharged from military students or were expelled from military students, medicine and treatment costs, book, stationage expenses, half of their food costs and student allowances and interest related to them in the form of computing the social state. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. The Commission has a demand for a reduction before the matter is voted on. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0230par0079	Mr. President, in this interim article, we request that the declaration of armed forces be changed to the Turkish Armed Forces.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0225par0080	With this request for reduction, I submit to your votes the temporary clause 1, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions above the temporary article 2. I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 302 rows, is temporary. We offer and propose that the statement in the article be removed from the proposal text. Kazim Kurt Aydın Ayyadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Mahmut Tanal Musa Pine Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the Interim Article 2 of the current Law Proposal 302 rows from the text. Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Ik Mehmet Erdoğan Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Erkan Akçay Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0231par0097	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0225par0098	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0232par0099	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0225par0100	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0233par0101	Erkan Akçay will speak.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0225par0102	Mr. Akçay, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0234par0104	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 2nd Amendment. I salute you all. Dear friends, the Justice and Development Party has made it difficult to access justice during its ten-year mandate and has violated the institution of justice. In these five minutes, I'll only try to make contact with three or four examples. First of all, there is no lawsuit for tax cuts from the unemployment fund's income in Article 2 of this proposal, and the court in which cases are being tried, and if the verdict has been appealed, it is decided that there is no place for a decision by the Court to be made by the State if the decision is made. The regulation of this proposal is direct interference in the judiciary. This arrangement is contrary to the Constitution, and it is an extremely wrong arrangement. According to Article 125 of the Constitution, the judiciary is clear against all actions and procedures of the administration. Again, no body, authority, or person can give orders or instructions to the courts and judges in the use of judicial authority; they cannot send advice and advice to the judges; they cannot give advice. According to Article 36 of the Constitution, everyone has the right to a fair trial as a prosecutor or a defendant in front of the judicial authorities by means of means and means. In the Constitutional referendum on September 12, 2010, we have opened the way for the HSYK and AGE decisions. The Justice and Development Party boasts that you have brought only this provision to close the way for tax cuts from unemployment insurance funds, which is tax-retribution. Again, you know, the Council of Ministers has been authorized to implement judicial decisions on the privatisation of Law 6300 issued in April this year, or rather, not apply. The Council of Ministers has also agreed that Sejdişehir Eti Aluminium Asş, Kuşadasi Harbor, Ceşme Harbor, the privatisation of the Seka Balıkesir Enterprises, and that no action should be carried out regarding the decisions that canceled 14 per cent of the sale of the shares of ÜPRAS. The court's decision to cancel privatisation due to public damage has been nullified by the government Third: According to the Law Code of Law, any notification costs, discovery costs, expert witness and witness fees should be paid to cover their expenses, and must be admitted in advance by the plaintiff. In advance, the right to seek the rights of citizens, especially those with small incomes, is blocked from seeking their rights through trial, due to monetary limits, and due to an advance. The cost of filing a lawsuit with this law has been greatly increased. The pursuit of rights through judgment, the desire for justice, the essential element of democracy, the need to be a state of law, is one of the most fundamental elements of the law. Putting obstacles in the way of a citizen's search for rights, bringing constraints, in a sense, means opening the door to a oppressive government, setting the stage. Again, it is possible to assess the closure of courts in 146 districts at the request of the Ministry of Justice with the latest HSYK resolution and to consider the closure of the courts in 146 districts and the re-opening of 44 of them as a obstructing attitude towards seeking justice on the road to seeking rights. While justice is being served, there should be no profit-loss account, but the AKP government considers the profit-harm account as it closes the courts. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The state will go to the foot of the nation. The AKP, which comes to power, closes the state institutions that serve the nation one by one and leads the nation to the foot of the state. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0235par0116	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 302 rows, is temporary. We offer and propose that the statement in the article be removed from the proposal text. Kazim Kurt (Eskişehir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0236par0123	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0235par0124	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0237par0125	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0235par0126	Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0238par0128	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I have received a pledge on unemployment insurance, Article 2 of Law Proposal 302. Dear friends, in 25/8/1999, due to the unemployment insurance of the late Prime Minister and the government, I honor Mr. Bulent Ecevit, and bow before his memory. Dear friends, at this date's unemployment benefit fund, the amount is now 56 billion liras. This took effect on March 2002, and about 3 million 255,000 people from that date have applied for unemployment insurance. Two million, 570, 89 people are entitled to unemployment allowance. The amount of money currently in the budget is approximately $59 billion. But it's all a fund of cut-offs from workers and employers, friends and an important fund for unemployed people to benefit from here. But the conditions and conditions of taking advantage of the unemployment fund are so difficult, so heavy that unfortunately, our unemployed friends do not benefit enough. In fact, we should be able to soften the conditions of taking advantage of unemployment insurance and ensure that our unemployed friends can receive a fee to care for their families during the time that the AKP government is in power, while we see clearly and clearly that the unemployment fund is being used for different purposes. You see, we're learning and hearing from government representatives that the unemployment fund's resources are being used to build highways, and that the GAP is being paid there. In the past, we have seen in 1983 how the various funds established by the late Turkut Özal have been emptied and destroyed and caused by these problems and problems by our people, and now the unemployment fund has been seized. Look, on May 31st, again, in this Parliament, you accepted and passed a law on taxing from the Unemployment Fund, despite all our objections, despite all our warnings. But you've found a flaw in this law you've passed, you've left a mistake, you've left a point; now you're bringing a second proposal here, adding it as a temporary clause, blocking the way for our people to go to justice. Guys, we're a state of law. In the state of law, can you block people from going to trial? Why are you doing this? In previous laws, you have at times blocked people's constitutional rights, their ability to go to trial; that is not true. However, in the referendum held on September 12, 2010 -- one of the articles in your brochure -- we will open ways to appeal to the Constitutional Court in person. You said, "We have brought people to the Constitutional Court." But with this offer, you have blocked the way for people to go to court and seek their rights. That's not true, guys, that's wrong, that's one. Second, the tax cuts from the unemployment fund are completely wrong. Of course, the managers of the unemployment fund are considering the money that was saved in the unemployment fund in various places. What are they doing? They put it in banks, they put it in paper, they evaluate it. It is not right to be taxed on that rate now. This is a sum that must not be cut off from the sweats of workers and workers. It's wrong, it needs to be fixed, and it needs to be removed. Look, friends, 11 million workers and 2 million public employees are taxed and taxed in Turkey. Most of the income tax is on the taxpayers, and that's about 66%, which is cutbacks from the source, friends. Four million, seven hundred and thirty-eight million, minimum wagers, five billion, 38 million, and the other, 22 billion, 649 million taxpayers. About 6 million and 750 thousand companies, which cost about 675 thousand dollars, in total income, wealth and capital profits, 43 percent of that came out of the money's pocket. Now, you're bringing a tax to the unemployment fund, which is made up of these taxes that came out of the pocket of the wage. You're not supposed to do that. In the unemployment fund, the money is all cut out of workers and employers, and therefore, it is wrong and you are wrong to tax the interest again. And you're shutting down our citizens' way of going to court here. This is not a righteous work, you are acting contrary to the Constitution. Don't do this. I'm warning you again from here. I bid you all good evening.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0239par0140	Thank you, Mr. Pine. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary article 2, those who accept... those who refuse... temporary matter 2 is accepted. There are two motions on temporary matter 3. These two motions I'm going to read are the same. I'm going to process the motions of the same nature together, and I'm going to make a separate commitment to lawmakers at their request. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's a temporary 3rd amendment to the current law proposal. We request that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Kazim Kurt Aydın Ayyadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mahmut Tanal Haydar Akar Musa Pine The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Alim Light Mehmet Erdoğan Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0240par0159	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0239par0160	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0241par0161	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0239par0162	Nationalist Movement Party, who's going to talk?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0242par0163	Motive...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0239par0164	I'm reading the reason: Since it is a special arrangement for the person, it is recommended that the item be removed from the proposal text. Republican People's Party, who will speak?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0243par0168	Mr. Musa Pine.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0239par0169	Mr. Pine, come in.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0244par0171	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 3rd amendment of Law Proposal No. 302. I salute you all. A clause related to TÜBITAK (TÜBITAK) are these dear friends. No doubt, TÜBITAK has done important work since its establishment, supported important work, contributed to the country's development in science and technology, but I regret to inform you that our institution has been affected by social, economic and political fluctuations within the country, and has become controversial in a climate where the government has been interfering with everything from judicial to female birth. WHAT is TUBITAK's vision? THE vision of TÜBITAK, in its own words, is to become an international institution with international activity in the field, which serves to bring the quality of our society's economic, social and environmental life to its modern level. So, what's his mission? To increase and maintain our country's competitiveness and prosperity, developing science and technology policies in cooperation with every part of society and relevant institutions, in line with our national priorities. During the AKP administrations, most policies were determined only through good faith. The openings, I quote, were done in good faith, and our foreign policy was rebuilt with "good intentions" and so on. So, is the AKP government giving us another misdemeanor in this area? We are ranked 75th in the ranks of prosperity levels in 110 countries. Turkey ranked 61th in 139 countries in the World Economic Forum's 2010-2011 Global Competitiveness Report. Turkey ranked 82,000th in the World Economic Forum's top 2010-2011 report on university-industrial co-operation. Turkey ranked 67 (67) among 132 countries in the innovation ranked in the 2009-2010 Global Innovation Index Report. Turkey is ranked 89 (89) in 132 countries in the five-year-old Sub-integration Index ranked in the 2009-2010 Global Innovation Index Report. Turkey ranked 32 (32) among 33 countries in the innovation ranking given by the EU Innovation Carne. Last year, we were ranked 32nd in 33 countries. In the Human Resources Sub-indictation ranking of the same report, Turkey is ranked 30th in 33 countries. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is up to us to tell you what we find when you scrape the lights off the events and the institutions. It also makes sense that this distinguished institution has not submitted the report requested by the court in the Oda TV case, which has made it possible to improve the country's prosperity in accordance with its national priorities. Do you remember the court president's statement? "TÜBITAK report has not been reached. We wrote it four or five times over the phone and once, and we asked him to come to the hearing, but he didn't show up." he said. I think politicalism should be questioned in the first place, not the science of TÜBITAK, who can't write a report in a hundred days. But thanks to this and this, we've learned that not everything was really referred to God by the AKP. We know that science can't be done there if it's under the influence of government, politics, politicians. What's done there is politics itself, which, unfortunately, we've had the misfortune of seeing a lot of it through controversial appointments and interventions to TÜBITAK during the AKP administrations. We weren't the only ones who had that misfortune, and even the most respected media in Europe, where you slept at the door to get in, because of you, after 2008, TÜBITAK. Until then, TÜBITAK, shown as a respected scientific institution, was linked to the government, and after that, the operation of both defunctioning and privatizing the fall began. The point is neither in terms of Turkey nor in terms of the defendability of scientific activities in Turkey. Today TUBITAK management is a problem. We, the Republican People's Party, have already stated that the scientists in the administration have been brought there with the wrong choices. These errors continue, and if they are not corrected, not only within the country, but also in the international arena, their scientific work as a country appears to be a candidate for major injuries. Dear lawmakers, remember that two things rule the world, one sword is science, and the other sword is eventually defeated by science and thought. Now, with power, lay down the sword you deserve. When the world needs more science and thought, every step you take towards peace, science and free thought will bring peace not only to you, but also to our country and region, if you have this kind of anxiety, and I say once again, we are opposed to the TİBİTAK presidency, which will be removed from three years to four years, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0245par0182	Thank you, Mr. Pine. I hereby submit the motions to your votes: those who agree... Those who don't agree... The motions of the same nature have not been accepted. There's a demand for a review before a clause vote. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0246par0186	Mr. President, we would like to request that the Article 3 of Article 8 of Article 3 of Article 8 of Article 3 of Article 7 of Article 7 of Article 7 of the Article III be subject to rejection due to Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 3.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0245par0187	With this request, I submit to your votes the interim article three, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion for a new interim supply, and now I'm going to read this motion, and I'm going to ask you whether the Commission is in or out of the motion, and if it does, I'm going to continue the process, and if it doesn't, I'm going to withdraw the motion. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'd like to introduce the following temporary clause to the current bill, 302 rows. People who have been given the right to the rights of those granted in the past because of various disasters are allowed to apply within six months of the publication of this law to those who have failed to fulfill or diminish their rights during the times specified in the law. The implementation of right ownership is determined by procedure and by regulations. Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0247par0197	We don't have a majority, we can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit05spe0245par0198	I'm dropping the motion because it's mostly because the Commission can't participate. Congressmans, I'm gonna take a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0245par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 131st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 302 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Now, there are twenty-three motions for new substance violations. As you know, the proposed bill or proposal is the sentence of the fourth clause of the Article 87 (87) of the Interior Charter, which does not exist in the commission text of the law, but wants to change a clause that is very closely related to the bill and proposal, and will be discussed as a new clause on the proposals which the Commission has attended most of the time. According to Article 91, the meeting of the Civil Code as a new clause will be discussed on the motions the commission has already attended, and the number of motions laid out in this article may be submitted. Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the Commission. If the commission joins the motion with only 21 members, I will open the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Now, I'm going to read the first motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Süzeyya Sadi Bilgiç Muzaffer Prime Baller Salih Husband The following sentence was added to the fourth article of Article 16 additional to Article 442 of Village Law, dated 60-18/3/1924. However, according to Law 2330, the right of the month of the widow and the orphan, due to their spouse, their children, or their mother, does not require the payment of the month. Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0248par0017	We have only a majority, Mr. President, we agree.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0245par0018	Then I'll call you as a new item. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Kütahya MP Alim Ik will speak. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0249par0022	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the amendments to the amendments in the laws and regulations of certain laws and laws concerning the regulation of rights for the victims of martyrs, veterans and terror to be added to the 302-line Law Proposal we are discussing. I want to inform you on behalf of my group about what was intended, what was achieved by these arrangements, especially considering other material that will come next. On this occasion, I salute you all. First of all, I think we're all going to be able to contribute to a very good work on the last day of this year of legislation, especially before the 2009 local elections, because we're going to be giving the martyrs and veteran families at least a fraction of the rights that our Minister of Family and Social Policy and some other ministers and other ministers have made, which they have promised, but have not yet been fulfilled. In that sense, I think we'll be happy to at least cheer up the parents and relatives of our sons, who are in that expectation and who have given their lives for our country. With these added articles, the village rangers have been first exposed to certain rights, the rights given to our martyrs and veterans. They'll be able to remove some of their victims by now. On the other hand, Petty Officers and Petty Officers with military schools will benefit from the rights of our citizens who are martyred or left behind by the Anti-Terror Act 3713. This was a clause that we saw positive and contributed to as the National Movement Party. We find that to be a positive. On the other hand, a decision has been made that the sum of their parents' salaries, whether separate or not, will not be under a minimum wage, even though we offer each of them minimum wage. At least they've come to a level that's within one level of what they're now getting, or in some cases, more than that. That's a positive development. Hopefully, at least, we'll be a little more pleased with our martyr parents in that sense. Another important issue has been a step ahead of the increase in wages of those who receive wages under Article 5434, which is described as a virtual example. From now on, there will be an increase in certain levels, every year and every three years. This was one of the important things we saw positive about. On the other hand, traffic and road security or those in charge of providing transport and transport of prisoners were also granted some benefits. That's a big change. At least so far, it's been a bit of an open road to taking advantage of those rights to our people who've had accidents or martyrs or veterans in their line of work. The other thing is that the most important and most important thing we've been focusing on is a second job for the families of our fallen families and the families of our veterans. It's been provided for this occasion. So far, it was impossible for single martyrs to take advantage of this right in the drafts and other matters that have come up. As a result of our proposal, the families of our single martyrs have been helped to benefit from this second employment right, with the contribution of the ruling party and representatives of our other parties. As for the mauls, our veterans, they were granted an additional job. There's one thing that we disagree on in the material coming up in this proposal. Of course, we have expressed our opposition to him. The issue of paying people who lost their lives in the nation's events is a subject we don't participate in as the National Movement Party. I'd like to say this on this occasion. On the other hand, there have been improvements in the payment of disability and accession shares, health expenses, examinations of those with disability pensions. We consider this a subject we support again. We find the arrangement for disability, examination, and the use of the same rights by the village rangers positive. The arrangement for increased operational compensation has again been supported by us. We also thought that the additional branch manager's staff, which the Ministry of Family and Social Policy requested, would be in place, and we supported that. On this occasion, even though certain rights have not been granted, even though our fallen families and veterans' other demands have not been entered into the law, they feel that they will be comforted by what exists, again, by thanking everyone who contributes. I say good luck.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0250par0036	Thank you, Mr. Light. İstanbul MP Hope Oran on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0251par0041	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you first. First of all, whether it's late or late, it makes sense that this law came to the High Council at this time of night. On behalf of all of our veterans and family witnesses and relatives, I would like to express my thanks to all parties who contribute. I'm afraid we have another casualty report today. One of our lieutenants who was injured last week was a martyr today. When we look at it, we have 27 martyrs in the last month and 63 wounded. We're dealing with a really bad picture, and for the past ten years, they've been growing rapidly. Of course, at this point, as my main opposition party, I would especially like to say that I have the right to first criticize the ruling party's anti-terrorism policy and strategy, because when we look at the point where we've been here for ten years, unfortunately, there is a government that is not successful in fighting terrorism. It's, of course, a political issue, a matter of interest to all of us, but we need to deal with this more carefully and seriously. Of course, here, in the fight against terrorism, the government needs to rethink the concept of terrorism and the government, because the government is going to fight terrorism on one side, journalists, writers, students on the other, academics on the other, and officers on the other side, so there's a difference of understanding. So, when we look at the fight against real terrorism today, we see that you are at the point of surrendering to a negotiation and a terror. In this framework, once again, when the government's legislative activities began this period, I would like to remind the 61st Government Programme -- I have said this before -- that it must review it again, because there was no objective, no concrete, tangible understanding of the fight against terrorism in the 61st Government Program, and there was no goal to resolve it. Therefore, the government must deal with this at once. I'd like to point that out once again. As I just said, today we have thousands of gasses waiting for this decision, families of martyrs. So I'd like to say that I think it's extremely important that the Veteran Assembly address this issue, even though it's late today. Of course, if you remember, I asked you again from this bench ten days ago to consider this -- this law proposal, this law proposal that we made -- to fill it together. If only we'd taken it then, we could've given the Commission some more time. We could have filled it better together, with common sense, because when we looked at the date of coming to the Commission, it was a bill that came to the commission about 48 hours ago. Now, back to this offer, of course, there are some good things about this offer, and I'd like to make it clear once and for all. It contains important points that can really solve problems, which can cure trouble. But he's still missing something. In particular, this second job -- he's just expressed a statement -- about the removal of a victim here, especially about the second job for single martyrs to be given to their families, to their brothers, to make sure that this bill is offered to those who don't apply this sentence as well as the number of administrative fines that they don't. So I'd like to state that he has to have an sanction and a criminal obligation. A second issue: I would like to bring to the attention of fellow martyrs and veterans, especially at the point of receiving dwellings from the TOİKI. So they should not wait in line, they should be given priority based on their application from TOKI. As a third, I would like to point out that while we are doing something positive in a sense to the families of martyrs, we are shutting down the homes where the children of martyrs are trained. Look, six houses of the Turkish Armed Forces Foundation are now being shut down in six counties. We're taking away nearly a thousand martyr children from their homes. I ask that this be taken into consideration once again. The fourth issue is that we provide public means of transportation, land transportation, and transportation on municipal borders, especially for our families and veterans. It's in the sea roads, it's in the railroads. However, I would like to stress in particular that air transport -- which is now almost everywhere -- is being provided today. At this point, Turkish Airlines, especially... there are some money that I bring up in Syria, Iraq, and Bosnia, which have been lost, sunk, or sponsored for billions of dollars. I'd like to point out from here that Turkish Airlines doesn't see much of this sponsorship to our veterans and families of martyrs. There are some problems with veterans again. For example, look, in Ankara City -- you can take notes -- water money, water bills are reduced 90 percent to disabled citizens, but the rate of discount for veterans is 40%. And that needs to be fixed, so I want to say that veterans should have as much opportunity as the disabled. Again, the PM gives you the disabled ID card, but the VA card is issued by Social Security. Our veterans want this delivered by the Prime Minister again. The most important thing we have to do here is to return it to our veterans and families of martyrs, so we have to create a business opportunity to protect their dignity, to provide them with their lives, to work for them again. We need to take this matter seriously. Other than that, when you look at it today, for example, the number of fallen families, the number of veterans. When you look at our entire budget, we call it a powerful economy... we have less than 4,000 gasses, so for the veterans and martyr families of this country, I wish that the Veterans Assembly, the High Assembly, would not run away from any sacrifice. At this point, of course, from time to time, our veterans, our families of martyrs, can perform demonstrations to express the problems they face, a number of protests -- quite naturally. In particular, I would like to invite the ruling party, our government's law enforcement forces in particular, to a slightly more proportional intervention or a little more tolerant, because very recently -- you'll remember -- we've had these pictures of veterans whose prosthetics have been disbanded, our clubbed veterans, our veterans who have been exposed to pepper spray, and we've been living. So I wish that the High Assembly, once again, would address this matter with sensitivity from the government. Veterans, martyr families are our honor. They have indeed made great sacrifices for this country, for this land, so there is no reward for any sacrifice to be made to them. So once again, I ask you all to do the maximum of what the Veteran Assembly can do on this matter, and I bid you all good evening, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0252par0058	Thank you, Mr. Oran. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0253par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, I salute you all. We rushed to the House in a very important situation where he really had to stay on top of the House, to work, to be informed. Now, if these could be discussed in a timely manner, if they could be talked about, very important mistakes could be corrected, because it's very, very complicated. It's not just the heavy consequences of 30 years of conflict. There is before this, until the Battle of Cyprus. Until Korea, before the Battle of Cyprus, after Korea, the troops in Afghanistan, the forces in Lebanon, the security units sent to Somalia, their forces, all of which, on one side, were burned and destroyed in the concept of the 90s, as well as the population of 17,000 perpetrators. So the balance sheet of this 30-year conflict process, unfortunately, is very heavy, and it's so heavy that it's the most lost of both civil citizens and civilians, especially civilians. In the concept of 90 years, the government's own policy of burning the village, the unsolved killings later appeared with the Susurlik gang, JİTEM came out, the crime organizations came out, and on behalf of the state, we're in the process of killing a lot of people in acid wells, killing people in wells, killing people in death wells, very recently, in a van with information on how the guards were burned, and in a lot of places, we're in a more recent environment and conflict. Then we'll weigh the pain of thirty years very well. We're going to make the justice of 30 years, the scales. If we can't do this, if we can't hurry up and talk about a sensitive issue when it comes to it, we can't find the channels of our country's 30-year conflict process, evolve into peace, politicalally looking for solutions in parliament. I've said a lot of things here in my time. Yes, police, soldiers, soldiers, officers, rangers, officers, other civilians, other than that... is there now in the council's horizon, parliament's memory: Is there still the shame of this, since 15,000 people from the province where I was elected, who were burned and killed in 1993, were still in Mahmur Camp... Which was the persecution of Saddam at the time, did he know that the MPs were going to Iraq in Saddam's tyranny? 15,000 of your own citizens, carrying their own wallet, have been living in refugee conditions in Iraq since 1993. Doesn't that dishonor the country? Look, about the rangers, we have a policy on this bench. We're against the system, but just because we're against the system doesn't mean they don't get their rights. We hope that peace will be set in place, and those who retire will retire, and those who are young will complete their time in the forest, in the DSI, in the road, doing more useful work. That's part of it because I pronounce 85,000 people here. In other words, a draft of the law has arrived. I'm going to say a few things very sincerely. I looked at the first draft, and it says that civilians who were assigned by security forces to use their services during the fight against terror, say, "I mean, the Vedat Aydın, Musa Anter Τi, and even Colonel Ridvan Özdeni, again, in Tunceli, the commanders of the Assembly of Tunceli, I can name many more names in the investigations of the Council of Greens, who killed General Bahtiyar Aydın, and who lost their weapons in the name of the state, as they wanted, and those who committed murder at that time, as they wanted. Yes, if we didn't draw attention to it today, you'd all be saying yes because of this delicate law, and you'd be facing a situation like that where you'd have to pay a lot of people who killed JITEM, confessors, and journalists like him. These warnings have been taken into consideration by the Minister and the bureaucrats and other groups: they are now out. But let me tell you, it's not just that, if we set the scales of justice equal to all the victims, if we hand over this right for everyone, if this right is applied equally to everyone, it means something. According to Law 5233, the price of a murdered person is listed as $14,000 on the commissions of counterterrorism. I, as a lawyer, had not been agreed on a case in Istanbul, before my parliamentary position, on the burning of a marketplace, on the cries of a mother, and that was when we filed the first appeal. Later, we brought Strasbourg to the European Court of Human Rights. People rebelled against it. We warned him here, we talked to the Minister, the bureaucrats. Here, there are some numbers, how accurate, how much research is a different matter. The number of casualties is 23.234. According to what criteria, friends? Really, it's a separate criteria. Our civil citizens are bound to be in that number, or that's not the official number of the Joint Chiefs. Malul veteran 10,983, next of kin 39,240; this is from the Ministry's official website. But I'm going to mean something here. We have asked that only one citizen within this 5233 should not be a victim of this social security right, and I will say one more thing: The sufferings of Uludere are fresher. When the sufferings of the nation are fresh, those who are so sensitive over Uludere are making their hearts bleed even more when they are doing wrong. I'm being very clear, there's no distinction, but I want you to know that the Uluderes want justice, they don't want money. The nation is still waiting for justice. On the one hand you're going to get justice, on the other, you're going to get equality law, on the other hand, you're going to embrace the citizen and everyone, so maybe we'll find a way to peace, and we can come to peace. For these reasons, we're missing some of this work, some of it right, some of it...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0254par0071	Please complete your statement.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0253par0072	I'm ending it, Mr. President. Some of this work is true, some of it's missing, some of it's wrong. I'm telling you, we're wrong about law enforcement, we're wrong about finance, and we're doing a law study, so maybe we can make it a temporary comfort. Because we know about the victim of the car accident, the families are suing. There are people who die in the army, there are people who are not covered, there are criteria for civilian citizens; they need to be explained. However, the Council of Ministers must extend its application for Law 5233 once again due to these laws. With these feelings, we wish good work. That's why we expressed our concerns, thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0255par0077	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0256par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Tonight, we're all going to sign a really good arrangement right now. This is not the cost of the sacrifice of our martyrs who have sacrificed their lives for their future, which can never be measured, which cannot be expressed by material figures, but we make these arrangements for society, for all of us, for all of us, for the representatives of society, for our veterans, for all of our martyrs, for the sake of our hearts are with them, for our hearts are beating together, and for moral support. The current arrangements, of course, began with the government bill being sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The government bill, drafted by our Ministry of Family and Social Policy co-ordinator, began when it was sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. However, due to the lack of time, we are now installing this bag into the offer. There's been a lot of hard work over the last few days, with all the political party groups, all our friends, there's been a really intense, selfless work done. I hereby express my sincere gratitude to our fellow MPs, our friends, and our friends, the members of the Plan and Budget Commission, who have not given away their contributions first, and to all our members of the Ministry, we offer our thanks. Of course, we also thank our government for sending the bill to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This is a very important arrangement. So far, it's important to make arrangements that will perhaps fold the resources provided for our fallen families and veterans. In a moment, I'll briefly -- I won't take too much time, I'll try to fit it in in five minutes -- I'll state the arrangements. Of course, to this day, society has spared no sacrifice. In the past, governments have tried to make contributions to their families and veterans in the capacity of budgets, even though there was no reward for them, even though they were never able to measure them, but the feature of these arrangements is that they add a very serious addition to what has been done so far, to increase them by folding them. The most important of the arrangements is to provide second employment opportunities for the relatives of the martyr. It was a long-standing issue, a demand, which was also brought up by the family of martyrs, and there is a second employment opportunity, regardless of the specific condition of our martyr, regardless of whether he is married or single, provided for his mother, his wife, his children, his mother, and his children, and it is not an alternative, so either way, two jobs for the family of our martyrs are provided by others, regardless of whether or not they're being used by others. So what I'm trying to say is that if he has a married wife, if he has children, he can be used by his parents. There is no case of casualties unless it's used by them. The second employment will then be used by other family members. Again, there was often talk of employment so far regarding our single, unmarried martyrs. That's one of the things that's matured in the debates here. And there will be a second term for those of them near [to Allah]. Again, one of the key provisions brought with this bill was removed from the condition of disability and need in the mother and father of the fallen privates. This has been one of the issues that has been really difficult so far and has been asked to be removed, and by the way, there was a lower base limit on the salary attached to the parents. This is being removed with these regulations. Again, one of the flaws was that public officials who had been injured or lost their lives in the Anti-Terror Law were tried to repair their victims by following and neutralized terrorist incidents in any way due to terrorist incidents or in any way due to the effects or to prevent terrorism. It is also based on the procedure of a person who has graduated from the first level of the ninth degree to become a civil servant, regardless of the monthly commitment to themselves or relatives of veterans or veterans who have become martyrs or veterans because of terrorism, and there is serious improvement. Thus, the principle of positive discrimination was implemented in the monthly calculations of privates and privates who were martyrs or veterans due to terrorism. In the same way, property grants to terrorist martyrs and veterans have also been granted exemptions, as in the 100% support campaign for education. A number of setbacks arise in the practice of martyr relatives and veterans for free use of public transportation are met with these provisions. Again, it's important -- our friends have just mentioned -- it's a law that allows our civilian citizens, who have died or been crippled, to take advantage of these opportunities in the fight against terrorism on their own initiative. We talked for five minutes. Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu, for reminding me. So we had a principle between us in that frame. I wish him well again. I wish all of our veterans, our fallen families, and our relatives, who have passed the job, well done. I'd like to thank everyone who's passed the job. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0257par0101	Thank you, Mr. Canicli. The commission has a request for a statement. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0258par0104	Mr. President, I, as chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission, thank you very much for your contribution to all of our representatives, again our Minister Fatma Şahin Ma'am, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Kalaycı, and Mr. Bilgiç.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0257par0105	Thank you, sir. Now there's no further demands. I submit the new item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Süzeyya Sadi Bilgiç Muzaffer Prime Baller Salih Husband The following temporary clause is added to Article 61-42. "Current Article 2 - those involved in the amendment to Article 16 and the amendment to Article 16 shall be taken advantage of the provisions referred to from the period of the period of the period following the date of which this matter has entered into effect. However, no payment will be made for the period before this clause is put into effect. These provisions are carried out in the Village Law of 27/5/2007, and in the period of the period of the period following the date of this article, which follows the application of the terms of the 16th and 17th amendments from temporary village rangers to those who carry the terms in Articles 16/5/2007, and from the time of the Law of Change in some Laws. However, there is no payment for past periods." Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0259par0119	We have only a majority, Mr. President, we agree.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0257par0120	Then I'll open a meeting on the motion as a new item. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Muş MP Sırı Sakık. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0260par0123	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. So we have data, 23,234 martyrs. Yeah, we've been through a dirty, bloody phase. If these numbers are real, then it's not a realistic number of 40,000, 50,000, which the government has explained from time to time. 23,234, I repeat. So over 100,000 people died in this dirty, bloody war. Yes, we've been through a very dirty and bloody period, and we're still going through it. There's a small, important step going on tonight, and that's what we care about. I mean, we went through a phase, and it was dirty, and it was bloody. In fact, there was an explanation yesterday for Mr. Hussein Çelik. In the 1990s, the governor put a bomb in my office. Yeah, well, my place of business, my hotel, the authorities who served there, they put a bomb twice. If Hussein Steel hadn't explained it, our explanation wouldn't have meant anything. Two teachers died there. Now, for a period of time, it's bloody and dirty, and behind this period is the bloody hand of the state. At that time, a general was clearly saying: "We would put a bomb in the homes of judges, prosecutors who would not obey us, so that they would act with us. " At that time, he was an example of how bombs were put there, how bombs were detonated, and at the same time, he was part of the team of Tansu Cirler, who had planted a bomb in Hüseyin Bey's office. Then, as a reward, he became an MP, and came and Mehmet Agar, Korkken, Veli Little was one of the active members of that team. Thousands, 3,500 villages were burned at that time, and a large number of these villages were going, burning the government's helicopters, and they took us to prison in a hurry because we were singing them. The Minister of the period and the Prime Minister of the period were making statements: "There were no helicopters from Afghanistan, Pakistan, and they burned them." When I mixed them up, he was saying, "How can a helicopter from another country come in and burn the village from your land?" This time, he said: "The PKK had not been there, nor did Pakistan. He and his chief of staff, Doğan Wrestling, who worked together at the time, signed a dark period with a team. 3,500 villages were burned, and according to our data, there are 17,500 unsolved murders, and that's...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0261par0128	Hussein Steel was on the Right Way then. Huseyin Steel served as a deputy minister with those bombers at the same time.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0262par0129	They put a bomb in his room, too.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0260par0130	Now, this was done at that time. It was made on that date, and then, in your time, a law was passed in 2004; the Law number 5233. What was it? The state was going to pay for the loss. Actually, it was a trick against a citizen. I'm one of the losers. It's been 19 years. I went to the governor of Mush the other day. Yeah, it's been 19 years. We're making a legal arrangement tonight. In 2004, we made such a legal arrangement, but still the human rights were not restored. I've been there, where citizens are still treated as enemies. Look, just to be clear, he's being treated like an enemy. And in 1993, villages were burned, villages were burned alive, people were burned alive in their homes, and our government, today you are in power, and the vice governors and governors who were at your disposal, I went, and they came up with a payment plan. I asked: how much? When I say $3 billion, $2 billion, I say $1,000. Now, I asked the deputy governor who organized this business there, what is this? I swear.......... I said this is the law of hostility. There's a law like that, and you haven't paid for these people in 19 years. You burned down his house, burned down his village, they still can't get to his land. How can a house be made for $1 million? There is no sound. Now, as this law comes out tonight, all of these people who were victimized during that period need to be compensated as a whole. If you don't do this, you'll leave half of it. If you don't do this, you won't heal the wounds. And we and the Republican People's Party's motions to investigate these unsolved murders have always been rejected. Now, if I can grow it tomorrow, if I can't grow it tomorrow, and on the next October 1st, I'm going to ask for a parliamentary inquiry on Hussain Çelik Bey, and I'm going to look at you that day, how will you refuse him? There's a vice president of yours: they're putting a bomb in my house, in my office. This is what my neck owes. You always refused because we brought in the Republican People's Party. Now, there are victims of this period, this period. It's been 19 years, 19 years, so he still can't go back to his village, he still can't even go to his village. These are, indeed, the victims of that 19-year period that need to be paid immediately. And why did you pass this law? In the past, the ECHR was visited. The ECHR, that's what it was, paying for the damages. You have blocked the path of the ECHR by using a trick. What's going on? For 19 years, the governors, the vice governors, they've been practicing this illegality, doing it on behalf of the state, and saying it very freely. A village right next to him, if he pulled strings, he could easily get $25 billion. One of them is a village next door to me. So he's a close relative of mine, who was a member of the Republican People's Party in the 22nd term, and he's got a lot of money for all the villagers. Look, it's been seven years. The village next door is $1 billion, which is paid seven years later. Now there's that kind of lawlessness. And you were the architect of the process that blocked the path of the ECHR. And then there's the second thing. There's a law on soldiers again tonight. On the other hand, there are victims who have served in the army and have been called "suicides" from time to time, from time to time. And there are thousands of them. Some of them were Armenians, some were Kurds, some were Alevis, and they -- especially these people from the opposition -- lost their lives in the military. It's nice when they're being drafted, but it's not included in the process when they're dying. We need to get rid of this victim as soon as possible. There's something wrong with your system if you're taking these soldiers away, if he's committing suicide. So what you do is you accept a denial of conscience, you go to the army, you don't go to the army, you don't want to go to the army. Then whatever law you apply... because you have the right to say it with your own free will. But now you take it, you take it, a soldier comes in a few days later and says your son committed suicide. However, we've brought parliamentary research proposals on this issue -- many suicides are not suicides. Look, an Armenian citizen's death in Batman, and then his fellow soldiers came out, and they said: "This was not a suicide, it was a murder. Again, we see a brother of Aleti, the child of a Malatian family, who was actually killed by a murder. As a whole of these families, there really is a need for a legal arrangement to satisfy all of their victims. If these people didn't enjoy themselves, and they went there, you can't turn around and ask, "What if the person who committed suicide and the person who resigned is not responsible?" But if he commits suicide because of your system, then the responsibility of those who commit suicide because of this system belongs to the system and to power. I hope, in this arrangement, there may be a positive meeting to eliminate this victim. For the first time in a dialogue like this, a small compromise gives us all hope. I pray and hope that this Parliament, in the coming period, will stop this bloodshed with more reconciliation and dialogue, and this country will be saved from this blood stream. I bid you all good evening.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0263par0136	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0264par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I've been promised proposals regarding our martyrs and veterans, which we, as the National Movement Party, have signed. I salute you all. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, it is the sacred duty of our High Council to address the problems of the widows and orphans, the maladies and veterans who have left behind our martyrs who have sacrificed their lives for the undistributable integrity of the country, the nation and the state. We can't do anything for our martyrs and veterans and their families. I ask God's mercy for all our martyrs. I wish our veterans health, pleasure and long life and patience. The 61st article of our Constitution, titled "Securities of Social Security," protects the widows and orphans and the veterans and provides a proper life level in society. Taking the necessary measures to protect individuals under this clause is one of the basic duties of the social state, where the levels of life are at their proper level in society. Dear lawmakers, our fellow martyrs and veterans have had problems and expectations that have been pending for years. Their rights must be improved, their rights extended, and their unfair and segregating practices must be dealt with. We, the National Movement Party, have submitted numerous proposals and motions to resolve the problems of our fellow martyrs and veterans, and we've become very sensitive to that. This beautiful evening, the last day of parliament's work, the bill of the widows and orphans of war and duty of the martyrs, of our mauls and veterans, and parallel proposals have been submitted to the Turkish Grand National Assembly and we are in session. The first draft and these proposals satisfy some of the major shortcomings in implementation. But we can't say that the martyrs of war and duty have met the full expectations of their widows and orphans and our mauls and veterans. There is not yet an increase in the salaries of martyrs and veterans. 85 percent of martyrs and veterans are single. The government bill did not provide a second job for single families of martyrs who made up the majority of our martyrs, but then it was corrected by the group's joint proposal and co-work and agreement. Again, as the National Movement Party, we fully support these arrangements concerning the widows and orphans of the martyrs and our veterans. But we also say that some shortcomings need to be fixed. Hopefully, during the next work period -- if possible -- in October and in the months after -- we'll all get rid of those flaws together. Just moments ago, our congressman, Mr. Alim Ik, who spoke on behalf of the National Movement Party before me, counted the new changes and practices that came with these proposals one by one. And I hope, by bringing these flaws to your attention, that I can make it up to you during the next work period. I'd like to point out that these flaws are the following, dear friends: There is a necessity for improvement in the salaries of martyrs and veterans, which should be on the agenda of the coming period, and the rate of disability increases should be increased. Our veterans should also be given second jobs. In the event of the death of the martyrs, the parents of the veterans must be paid at least the minimum amount of salary, separate from each other. Dear friends, especially some of our veterans are the ones who have to provide for their families and keep that family alive financially. However, the fact that it has been literally removed from production and work can be devastating to many families. On the other hand, honorary friends must be paid to those who receive the State Medal of Honor. The salary of honor must be paid in full and evenly, regardless of any conditions. ▪ The name of honor cannot be tied to separate measurements, it must be connected. Therefore, there must be absolutely no difference in honorary months. If our maul veterans fill the number of 3,600 bonus days, they should be given a pension of old age. Any orthesis, prosthetics, equipment, medicine and medical materials used by responsibilities must be met without restrictions and without participation. Results of duty must also be granted a non-interest-free mortgage. As the National Movement Party, we argue that we should give social housing to families and veterans and that work should be done as soon as possible. In accordance with the regulations on Students Who Will Read Free at Number 5580, the quota given at 1 per cent of private teaching institutions for martyrs and veterans needs to be increased to 2 per cent. Finally, dear friends, what we consider important is that according to the Special Consumption Tax Act, the property is given a means of boarding without the ETV, provided it can be used for less than 1600 cc's and five years. However, due to procedures, many disabilityes are unable to exercise that right. According to Article 47 of Law No. 3713 and Article 55510, a medical report must be granted to those who are considered property of military duty, provided they submit free travel cards given by the Social Security Agency, provided they use them for less than 1,600 cc's and five years. Because according to Law No. 3713, the vet has been determined by the Social Security Institution's Health Board after he has been identified as a veteran with a full degree in the Turkish Armed Forces first. When the vet or the malus need to go to the hospital, their wives can't use them. Their wives should be able to use the tools given to veterans and invalids, and the persecution of this report should be over as soon as possible. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish you all the best and best of luck to our country, our nation, our fallen families, our veterans, and our families.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0265par0158	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. No promises. I submit the new item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Süzeyya Sadi Bilgiç Muzaffer Prime Baller Salih Husband Article 62-8/6/1949 added the following joke to Article 56 of the Republic of Turkey's Retirement Ark Law, 5434, after its first joke. "Those who continue to study at military schools and NGOs or universities' universities' universities' universities' faculty or schools where they are studying to the Turkish Armed Forces or their own account, military students who are being subjected to basic and comprehensive education at Police Academy and Police Education Centres or Universitys' faculty and University's Security Directorate account; those who continue to study to the Security General Directorate's office while studying to their own account; those who continue to study at Turkish Armed Forces, Security Directorate or National Intelligence Agency's offices, and those who are subject to study on behalf of the Turkish Armed Forces or Security Directorate of Security Directorates; those who are subject to study basic basic basic and institutional training; those who are subject to the 4th Article of the Law under the First Amendment under which I am under the scope of the First Amendment (ins) and 1s) and 1s and 1s and 1s and 1st of those who have lost their lives under the same law enforcement code of terror laws as well as well as well as those who have lost their rights and have lost their lives in accordance with the same degree as well as well as those who have been under the same conditions. Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0266par0173	Mr. President, there are only so many of us, we agree.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0265par0174	I'm going to open it up as a new item. Vocabulary on behalf of the groups? No. I submit to your votes the new article three: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Salih Big Muzaffer Leadballer Süzeyya Sadi Bilcç The first sentence of Article 63 - 5434 of Article 72 has been changed as follows. "Because of the cases stated in Article 47 of Law number 5510 or Article 3/11/1980 of Nakdi Termination and Monthly Bondage of 2330 and under the Law on the Law 18/12/1981 and the death of those who died while taking their lives on a monthly basis due to the deaths of some of them, father or mother or law of some of whom have lost their lives in accordance with the Law on Restitution of the Month, or of those who have lost their lives due to the cases of 12/4/1991 and under the Anti-Terror Law on Terror Law, and have lost their lives due to those who have lost their lives on the basis of those who have lost their lives in accordance with their own laws; or to those who have lost their lives in accordance with the number 56 or to those who have lost their mothers due to those who have lost their lives in accordance with the same months or to the same number of children who have lost their lives under the same months as their parents or the same months as the same age as those who have lost their parents, and the same age as those who have lost their lives as those who have lost their lives as those who have lost their lives as those who have lost their lives under the same months or the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age or the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age, and the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age, and the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age or the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as the same age as Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0267par0189	We agree, Mr. President, there are only so many of us.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0265par0190	I'm opening a meeting as a new item. No promises. No questions, no answers. I submit to your votes the new article 4, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Muzaffer Bastor Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Salih Big Nevzat Don't Fear Article 64 - 5434 is the head of the First Amendment "in accordance with the conditions stated in Article 56 of this Law," (a) "extreme recruits," (including those who are senior officers," (c) added to the statement, "contacted officers, contract sergeants," and (b) the term "azami rank ceiling in officers" (azami level ceiling") "in order to come after the declaration of this Law," (e.g. the officer's position of learning, including the officer's position), (e.g. me) has been replaced in the following form, and the "subordinated officer" (i.e.g.g., the third term of the "s" (i.e.g.g.g.g., i.g.a.g.a.a., the third degree") has been set up for the "s" (i.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g., and the second") and the third term (e.g. "c) The 56th Article of this Law and the 56th Article of the Law, the 2nd Amendment (e) of the Law 2330 (e) and the maximum degree of the 21st Article (i) of the Law (i) and (j) shall be applied to those specified in thebents of the Law (i) and (e.g. "e) In the months raised like this, maximum staff titles for personnel in the class of national intelligence services; in the absence of the latest management or expertise, the presidential staff is the 1st-grade staff for those in the management ranks, as well as for other personnel." Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0268par0207	We have only a majority, Mr. President, we agree.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0265par0208	I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new item. No promises. No questions, no answers. I submit to your votes on the new item five: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Muzaffer Bastor Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Süzeyya Sadi Bilgiçı Salih Big Mustafa Kalaycı Article 65-5434 has been added to the following temporary clause. "Current Article 224 - The amendment to Article 72 and the amendment to Article 77 is considered to be binding according to the relevant laws of the months, and there is no reduction in them. Because of Article 56, Article 72, Article 72, Article 4 and Article 77 included, those who have lost their lives or been injured before the date of the application of this clause are entitled to the same rights within the framework of the rules and basis mentioned in the period of the period of the period of the period of the date of which this clause entered into effect. However, the difference in months, monthly difference, pensions or pensions for past periods is not paid. If there are any interested, the amendments to the First Amendment to the First Amendment to the Article of Article 72 will be waived due to the months before the execution of this clause, as a result of the amendment to the first sentence of Article 72. Debts imposed on interested persons for the period prior to the implementation of this clause are earmarked for up to five years. If the monthly payment exceeds a quarter of the person's income, the installment period will be extended, and the interest will be abandoned by Social Security Agency." Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0269par0226	We have only a majority, we agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0265par0227	Then I'll open it up as a new item. No promises. I submit to your votes the new article 6: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Muzaffer Bastor Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Süzeyya Sadi Bilgiçı Salih Big Mustafa Kalaycı Article 66 - 3/11/1980 and Article 2330 of the 1st Article of the Law on Compensation and Monthly Compromises and Monthly Bondage added to its first joke "in order to arrive after the declaration of "compulsion," providing traffic and road safety or transfers of prisoners and prisoners." Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0270par0241	We have only a majority, we agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0265par0242	I'm going to open it up as a new item. There's no demand for words. I submit the New Article 7 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Muzaffer Bastor Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Salih Big Nevzat Don't Fear Article 67-2330 of Article 2 (a) has been added to the declaration of "Procession and security of traffic and road security" following the declaration of Article 2 of Article 2 (a) "or transfer" (c) as follows, and (d) the term "Ceza," which is included in the following form and sentence of prisoners and transfer." "c) Administrators of property in charge of preventing actions related to trafficking and acts that violate trust and order;" Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0271par0257	We have only a majority, Mr. President, we agree.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0265par0258	I'm going to open it up as a new item. There's no demand for words. I submit the new article 8 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Muzaffer Baştopçı Mustafa Kalaycı Salih Big Nevzat Don't Fear Article 68 - 2/3/1984 and Article 2 of Section 2 of Article 2 of the Common House Law, Article 64, Article 64, Article 31/5/2006, Article 8 of Social Insurance and Article 47 of the General Health Insurance Act, added at the end of the joke. This is part of the non-interest housing loans issued under Article 21 of Article No. 12/4/1991 and under Article 21 of the Anti-Terror Act on the basis of the same clause. Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0272par0273	We have only a majority, we agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0265par0274	I'm going to open it up as a new item. There's no demand for words. I submit to your votes on the new article 9: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Muzaffer Primeballer Mustafa Kalaycı Salih Big Nevzat Unafraid Süzeyya Sadi Bilç Article 69-12/4/1991 added the following sentences (b) to Article 21 of Anti-Terror Law (b), (c), (d) and (h)bents have been replaced as follows, and the following jokes have been added to the same joke after its first joke. ▪ The monthly rent allowance for a dwelling on behalf of all rights owners is determined by the regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Interior, with the opinion of the Ministry of Interior. These laws say that property grants to the widows and orphans who have lost their lives on a monthly basis are all but due to their property tax, their transfers, their tuition, and their return capital fees, and the stamp tax that will be issued for those transactions. The cost of all these properties can be deducted by those who donated them from the period's income or institutional gains of Article 89 of income tax Act 193 dated 31/12/1960 and Article 13/6/2006 and Article 10 of Article 5520 of the IRS Tax Act 10/20." "c) The sentence in Article 3 of Article No. 2559, which is dated 4/7/1934 and in Article 9 of Article 9 of the Law of Police and Equality, in favour of taking advantage of the mortgage, applies to the disabled themselves, as well as the widow's widow's wife, if she does not have a widow's pension, if she does not have children. ==Early life and death==The people themselves, the spouses and children of the disabled, who are obliged to take care of their parents, travel freely on the state railways at home, along with the city lines, and through the municipal public transportation vehicles, travel free of charge of public transportation through companies or private companies. Concerning institutions and municipalities take the necessary measures to use this right. The procedure and basis for the implementation of this bell are organised by the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Social Security, and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy." "h) Those of Erbaş or temporary or voluntary village rangers who have been determined to have conditions of disability binding by injury or injury in the act of combating terrorism are also entitled to the rights of this joke (c), (d) and (g) the rights of this joke, including the spouse, and the father who are obliged to take care of it (d). Those who have lost their lives for the same reason as those who have lost their lives or who have lost their lives on the same basis of this joke are entitled to their widows' wives, their parents, and their orphaned children, and the rights of this joke (c), according to Law Code 2330, and the rights within me (d). As part of this joke, the months to be tied to private and private members, as a result of the titles they have completed, can not be lower than the amount of pension due to their public duties; those who have graduated from at least four years of higher education, the first level of the eighth degree of the eighth degree, and others from the first degree of education, and those in the 10th level of the ranked "Official" ranked "Officiary" can not be lower than the amount of the pension due to the pension of the pensions they have earned due to their public duties; and for them, the first degree of Law number 5434 has been raised according to the first degree of the first degree (c) of the first degree, as I have been granted, and the condition of the ten degree of higher education, and the ranking of the ranked in the tenth degree, as a higher degree. "i) Those who continue to study the Security General Directorate when they are studying the student body, the student officer's school, the student's school, the student's staff, the student's student's student at the university's university's university's university's faculty and university's university's university's university's university's university's faculty, the student's student at the Turkish Armed Forces or the university's university's university's university's university's university's university's university's university's university's faculty, the student students who are subject to education and education at the police academy's university's university's university's university's university's university's university's university's university's university's university's university's university's office, the person who are subject to be subject to the basis and those who are subject to the basis and those who are subject to education in the basis for education of Turkish Armed Forces Force and the education of security and the education of the education of their rights education, according to their rights rights rights rights rights rights rights rights rights rights rights rights rights rights rights rights right to be taken under the same as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as Those who have lost their lives for the same reasons as those mentioned above, or who have lost their lives on a monthly basis as part of this joke, are entitled to the rights of the widow, their parents, and their orphanly children, according to the Law of 2330, and the rights of this joke (c) and the rights within me. j) Those who have helped to uncover, reduce or eliminate the effects of the terrorist act, and are useful for their actions, have lost their lives, have been injured or injured because of their actions; their rights (d) and (g) the rights to care for their spouses, parents, and children who have been taken over by the Nakdi Responsibility Commission have been used by the laws concerning the conditions of their disability bonding, according to Law 2330, as well as the rights to the monthly binding and the rights of this joke (d) and (g) of the rights on their rights, which they are obliged to look after their spouse, parents. Those who have lost their lives for the same reasons as those mentioned above, or who have lost their lives on a monthly basis as part of this joke, are entitled to the rights of the widow, their parents, and their orphanly children, according to the Law of 2330, and the rights of this joke (c) and the rights within me. Those who have been injured, injured, injured or killed during accidents, during missions committed in order to prevent acts of terrorism (h) and (j) in order to prevent acts of terrorism from happening in any way, or in any way to prevent acts of terrorism, follow or neutralize them. Those who are injured because of the incidents described in the first joke, (i) and (j)bents of the Law, are entitled to health care services and other rights provided according to Law 5510, as long as their treatments have been finalized or their disability has been finalised, as well as provisions related to those who have been treated for the same reasons. All expenses are covered by the Social Security Institution, regardless of treatments taken for privates and privates in Turkish Armed Forces health institutions and institutions, regardless of whether they are covered by public health insurance. However, according to Law 5510, those who are not covered by general health insurance, expenses made by the Social Security Agency are being collected by the Ministry of Finance for those who are not covered by social security; according to their interest for privates and privates; from the Ministry of National Defence, Gendarme General Command, Coast Guard Command, others." Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0273par0294	We have only a majority, we agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0265par0295	I'm opening a meeting as a new item. There's no demand for words. I submit to your votes the new article 10: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Ali Öz Salih Husband Musa Pine Free Special Scholar Light Kazım Kurt Muzaffer Bastor Fatosh Gürkan Süzeyya Sadi Bilgiç Nevzat Korkmaz Mustafa Baloğlu Erkan Akçay Necdet Ünuvar Cengiz Yavilioğlu Abdulkerim Gök Mehmet Şükrü Erdinç Ahmet Baha Öğüken Uğur Aydemir Ertuğul Soysal Ekrem Çelebi Hüseyin Şahin Ahmet Arslan Menderes Türel Sadik Badak Hasan H. Türkoğlu Articles 70 - 3713 of Article 1 (A) in the accompanying article (A) joke, with the same joke (a) and (b) dams replaced in the following way. A) Even if their duties have ended because of the attack on the 21st Article, the public officials, including those who were killed in the attack, and the temporary and voluntary village rangers, or the first joke of the 21st article (i) me, or one of the deceased's children, and one of the parents' children, and two others, if not the deceased's parents, father and brother are found, a total sum of two, if not the deceased's spouse or child is found, if the deceased's son is not found, the husband or the father's or the father's or the father's son is not found, the husband's or the father's or the father's or the father's or two brothers. Unto them belongeth that which is with me of those who work, and unto them belongeth a spouse or a child, or a brother if he have no wife or a son. C) The first joke of the 21st article (j) is that one of the deceased's spouses or children, one of his brothers, if he does not have a wife or children, one of the 21st article's first joke (j) is that those who are able to work from the property of the 21st article (j) are able to work for themselves, and one of the spouses or children of those who can't work for themselves," he said. Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0274par0326	We have only a majority, we agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0265par0327	I'm opening a meeting as a new item. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Articles, İzmir MP Hülya Güven. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0275par0331	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, lawmakers are about to discuss the motion to improve the status of martyrs and veterans in addition to the offer of bag 302 rows of law, and I respectfully salute the grand delegation. First of all, I bow before all our martyrs, and ask God's mercy, and his family's patience. Again, I wish that now, in every county, every county, more and more martyr news would be over, and the mothers, the fathers, and the brothers would no longer cry. I'd also like to ask the ruling party: Why did the martyrs and veterans who have been waiting three years for their rights to be held? Why is the bill today? Why would he come with an additional motion without further discussion? See what one brother of the martyr says: despite the Constitution's decree that positive discrimination will be carried out against the families of the martyrs who were accepted by the referendum and included in our Constitution, promises made to their fellow martyrs have not been fulfilled. My brother was martyred by terrorists, and with these legal regulations, the mother, father, and we were not able to provide any new means for our brothers and sisters. This is a sign of lateness. For many years now, families and veterans have been struggling to make a living, unable to obtain adequate health care. A government that's been in power for ten years has fulfilled its commitments three years after it's already made its commitments, and with the pressure and struggle of the Republican People's Party. We see the ruling lawmakers -- picnics with veterans and families of martyrs, trips, visits to associations, promises, but not all of this stuff. Again, they ask: "Why do the families of martyrs and veterans get their rights 11 years later?" Is delayed justice justice? Today, fellow martyrs and veterans report that they have a problem with appointment because of the condition of staff opportunities in their appointments, demanding that the transfers be met unconditionally. Again, by the way, a citizen of ours -- this was given in the media, in the newspapers -- was shot by his friend in the army -- was seen to have been paid back with interest years later for the prosthetic that he eventually lost. Isn't that a victim? It is the government's duty to ensure that our martyrs live in prosperity, no matter what is done for their families and veterans. Among other things, we must not ignore our other disabled citizens. I got another e-mail today. Every two years, she had to pay a contribution to the walking prosthetic she had to change, but she told us that she couldn't get out of the house with what was left of her father's month, so she couldn't leave the house. I'd like to remind you of the duty of our government. The task is to provide equal, quality, free health care to all disabled citizens. Today, I asked the Minister of Health why he was given 69% in disability reports, not 70%. What was the measurement? Because if it's 70 per cent, the disability allowance is tied, and when it's 69 per cent, the disability report isn't monthly. My response was that evaluations were based on European Union standards. Are the pensioners, families of martyrs, veterans, and disabled people on the basis of the European Union? What's missing from the bill -- the e-mail from a martyr child again -- is that if the father is young when he's a martyr, they have to stay unemployed when they grow up and only live on their mother's salary. It is also a matter for them to be resolved. If the parents and children's uncle are getting a monthly allowance, of course, when the children grow up to be young, you should give up your salary, give up one of the children. It's not true to say that it's not true, but it's necessary for our government to come up with a solution. I wish once again patience to the families of martyrs and veterans, my respects, wishing that terror would stop and this law would be good.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0276par0346	Thank you, Mr. Trust. There are no further demands. I submit to your votes on the new article 11: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Muzaffer Primeballer Mustafa Kalaycı Salih Big Nevzat Unafraid Süzeyya Sadi Bilç Article 71-3713 has been added to the following temporary clause. "Temporial Article 11-- due to the laws which regulate this clause before the date of the execution of this clause and the conditions of the 21st article, the property itself shall be used by those who were in possession of it before the date of its adoption, while the widows and orphans of those who lost their lives shall be used on the basis of the implementation of this clause. The first joke (h) of the mentioned article is not required to redefine the months in terms of privates and privates. Those who enter the 21st Article are entitled to the rights provided by the 21st Article after the period of the period following the date of which this clause has entered into effect, if those who have waived the ongoing judicial processes and executions in any way previously were to apply to the relevant institution. In the event of a mistrial, the Courts will rule in favour of the institution concerned, and the power of attorney fees will not be collected by the relevant institution. This clause is based on any monthly, monthly difference, compensation, compensation difference, bonus and bonus difference cannot be paid and cannot be demanded back-to-back rights." Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0277par0361	We have only a majority, we agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0276par0362	I'm opening a meeting as a new item. There's no demand for words. I submit the new item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Muzaffer Primeballer Mustafa Kalaycı Salih Big Ferit Mevlüt Aslanogluyya Sadi Bilgiç The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. 72 ▪ 3713. (Temporial Article 12) Due to the conditions stated in Article 1 of Article 1 that regulates this clause, those who have lost their own lives before the execution of this clause are entitled to the rights referred to under Article 1 and the basis of the clause. Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0278par0377	We have only a majority, Mr. President, we agree.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0276par0378	I'm opening a meeting as a new item. There's no demand for words. I submit the new article 13 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Muzaffer Baştopçı Mustafa Kalaycı Salih Big Nevzat Don't Fear Article 73-22/5/2003, under the First Amendment of Article 4857 and Article 30 of the Work Act 4857, added that "terror acts of terror, dated 21/6/1927 and dated 1111, were not injured in any way due to the fact that they were injured in accordance with Article 21/6/1927 and under the Code of Delegation Officers and under the Code of Deputation 12/4/1991 in Article 3713 and were injured in accordance with the Article 21/13 of the Anti-Terror Act." Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0279par0392	We have only a majority, Mr. President, we agree.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0276par0393	I'm opening a meeting as a new item. There's no demand for words. I submit the new article 14 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Zayya Sadi Bilgiç Muzafer Baştopçı Nevzat Korkmaz Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mehmet Doğan Kubat Article 74-17/7/2004 and Article 5233 of the Anti-Terror and Terrorism Act have been added to the following article. The net amount of the 30-day minimum fee determined for persons over 1-16 years of age; the first joke (b) of Article 9 (b) is 60 per cent of the property specified to them, (c) 80% of the property specified to them, (d) all of the property specified to them, (e) to be divided by Article 34/5/2006 of Social Insurance and Article 34 of the General Health Insurance Act. According to this clause, if those who receive the right to a month are granted the right to a month according to other legislation, their preferred monthly allowances will be paid by the period of their written application to the Social Security Agency, and their other monthly allowances will be cut permanently. However, those who are entitled to the same month on both sides will be paid more than their due date. Those who receive their preferred monthly allowances can return from their requests from the period of their period, following their written application to the Social Security Agency. These monthly payments, paid by the Social Security Agency, are collected from the Ministry of Finance each year in exchange for a bill. Documents for monthly commitment by the governorate on the application of those involved in this clause are sent to Social Security. Members of the terrorist organization who have been killed or injured or injured by terrorist organizations or injured by security forces will not be tied to their relatives and those convicted for terror crimes, which will be determined according to the first joke. The first joke of Article 2 of this Law (f) will be cut off from the date of the sentence of the months of those bound to the month according to the provisions of this clause. Those who are wrongfully paid shall be paid from those who are concerned." Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0280par0411	We have only a majority, we agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0276par0412	I'm opening a meeting as a new item. There's no demand for words.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0281par0414	Mr. President, I'd like to ask you to just record that we have an objection to this clause. That's my supply. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0276par0416	Thank you, it's on the record. I submit to your votes on the new article 15: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Muzaffer Prime Cannonist Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Salih Yaşeyya Sadi Bilgiç The following temporary clause is added to Article 75-5233. ▪ Interim Article 5- (1) Due to the terrorist incidents that occurred prior to the execution of this clause, those who have lost their lives are entitled to their own and those who have been killed in the application of their relatives; they are entitled to a pension based on the same procedures and bases and monthly sums specified in the Article 1 and on the basis of the publication of this article, starting in the period of the period 5510, according to the procedure and basis specified by the Law. However, there will be no payment for the period before this clause is in effect." Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0282par0428	We have only a majority, we agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0276par0429	I'm opening a meeting as a new item.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0283par0430	Mr. President, as I've just stated, the matter before is a continuation. I'd like to point out that we're not fully involved in this clause, for the record.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0276par0431	It's on the record. There are no other demands. I submit the new item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Zayya Sadi Bilgiç Muzafer Baştopçı The fifth joke of Article 76 - 5510 added the following joke to the following sentence, which follows the fifteenth joke (c), before the bell and the last joke below. However, those who have been deemed to be incumbent under Law 3713, those who continue to work by changing classes or tasks, are bound monthly from the period of the month when they begin to change classes or work by changing jobs without any other application. "d) Long-term insurance arms continue to be applied for those who continue to work under Article 4's first joke (c) by changing classes or tasks from those who have been deemed to be a liability under Law 3713. If they request for a monthly reconnection or retirement or, for any reason, if they are relieved of their duties after the period of their classes or assignments, they are calculated for the period of 29th period if they receive the right to the month in exchange for their next work. As for those who have not earned the full share of old age due to their past work, they shall be paid in full in full, and if they die they shall be paid in full the wages of death, or all of them shall be paid in full." "In the course of flying or diving services carried out by public institutions or intelligence agencies, provisions have been carried out concerning those involved in the eighth joke (e) of those who have lost their lives and those who have been killed by the cause or influence of flight in the air or on the ground or on the dive." Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0284par0446	We have only a majority, Mr. President, we agree.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0276par0447	I'm opening a meeting as a new item. There's no demand for words. I submit to your votes the new article 17: those who accept... those who refuse... the new article 17 is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Süzeyya Sadi Bilgiçı Salih Big Muzafer Baştopçı Article 77-5510 was the first joke of Article 69 of the Law (f) changed in the following way and added the bell to the same joke. The first joke (c) of Article 60 (c) is the sub-b) of Article 60 (c) and the spouses of them (6) and those mentioned in sub-committees #8) and those whom they are obliged to look at (5) and (7) are listed in the substrates (d) of Article 4 (d) and (e) on the fourth of Articles (d). "G) Health services which will be provided until the treatments of those injured have been completed or their disability is finalized due to the incidents mentioned in Article 21 of Law 3713." Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0285par0461	We have only a majority, Mr. President, we agree.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0276par0462	I'm opening a meeting as a new item. There's no demand for words. I submit to your votes the new article 18: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Süzeyya Sadi Bilgiçı Salih Big Muzafer Baştopçı The following jokes have been added to Article 73 of Article 78-5510 before its final joke. According to Law 3713, the monthly-bounded property of Article 56 of Law 5434 or Article 2 of Law 2 of Law 2 (e) and (f) Article 3713 of the law shall be met with any orte/prothesis/prothesis and materials that are required by the health board report of any ordez/prothesis and other healing tools that are required to live without the help and support of others, even if they are not covered by the Law 3713 months. New product demands for the same purpose are met according to the procedures laid out in Article 72, such products will be covered within the guarantee period or on the basis set by the Institution. Those who are injured because of their exposure to the incidents mentioned in Article 21 of Law 3713, who have been granted health care services and other rights given during the period of the period of their treatment, or until their disability has been finalised, are made available, as are those on a monthly basis according to the Law. Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0286par0476	We have only a majority, Mr. President, we agree.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0276par0477	I'm opening a meeting as a new item. There's no demand for words. I submit the new article 19 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Süzeyya Sadi Bilgiç Muzaffer Prime Baller Salih Husband The third joke of Article 79-5510 is added to the following sentence and the same article. According to Article 5434 of the law, the disability pensioners may ask the institution to re-examine their disability from those who are on a fixed basis until the age period of the 40th Article of the same law and the age of their special age has been completed." "In the course of flying or diving services carried out by public or intelligence agencies, the provisions of Article 5434 of Article 64 of Article 5434 are carried out concerning those who have lost their lives and those who have lost their lives in the air or on the ground or with the influence of divers. Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0287par0491	We have only a majority, Mr. President, we agree.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0276par0492	I'm opening a meeting as a new item. There's no demand for words. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the new article 20 is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Muzafer Baştopist Salih Kozeyya Sadi Bilcç The following joke was added after the first joke of Article 80. 5510 on the temporary 14th article of the Law. "As part of Law No. 3713, it is due to a pensioner and a private who continue to work under the same scope as those who continue to work under the first joke of Article 4 (c) as of the current date of this clause, as part of the class or mission changers, as part of the period of the month after the period of which they will be subject to the transfer approval of pensions, which they will not need to leave their duties. These and those who continue to work under the first clause (c) by changing classes or tasks before the execution date of this clause will receive a pension bonus from those who have not been paid due to their disability pensions (except for privates) by implementing the first clause (d) provisions of the first clause (d) which are under insurance under the rule of Article 4 (c) before the application date of this joke. Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0288par0505	We have only a majority, we agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0276par0506	I'm opening a meeting as a new item. There's no demand for words. I submit the new article 21 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Muzaffer Baştopçı Mustafa Kalaycı Salih Sarayya Sadi Bilgiç The following joke has been added to Article 81 - 5510 to the temporary Article 18 of the Law after its second joke. "The temporary and voluntary village rangers of the institution's Health Board have decided that their disability is permanent, and those who are due to disability pension due to their services in Article 2 of Law 2 (e) and (f)bents, may ask the institution to be re-examined until the age period of 442. Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0289par0519	We agree, Mr. President, there are only so many of us,
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0276par0520	I'm opening a meeting as a new item. There's no demand for words. I submit to your votes the new article 22, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the current 302 Orders of the Law. Nurettin Canikli Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Muzaffer Baştopçı Mustafa Kalaycı Salih Sarayya Sadi Bilgiç The article "12" in the third paragraph of Article 28 (A) of Article 375, dated 82-27/6/1989, has been changed into "24." Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0290par0532	We have only a majority, Mr. President, we agree.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0276par0533	I'm opening a meeting as a new item. There's no demand for words. I submit the new article 23 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's been another motion for a new substance violation.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0291par0537	Is it over with the stuff?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0276par0538	No, it's not. In addition to this, a new substance...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0291par0539	It's about the other law, isn't it, sir? Okay.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0276par0540	Our work on 23 new substances is over.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0291par0541	Mr. President, I just want to make one thing clear.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0276par0542	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0291par0543	It's important work. I'd like to thank the friends who contributed to this work and the Minister as the National Movement Party Group, and I wish everyone the best of luck.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0276par0544	Thank you for your work. Congressmans, there has been another motion for a new clause violation, and I'm reading this motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the following clause be added 40 to the current Law Proposal 302 rows and other substances be identified. Ahmet Aydın Gürsoy Erol Kemal Millenderelı Osman Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mustafa Gökhan Gülşen "In the source salts there is a once-in-a-lifetime guarantee of harmony with the environment." "However, it is not a requirement for the state to be taken in the spring salts, but the state's right to actual production is added to its fifth joke of Article 14. Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0292par0554	Mr. President, there are only so many of us, we agree.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0276par0555	I'm opening a meeting as a new item. Adana MP Fatosh Gürkan will speak on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on Articles. Here you go, Mr. Gürkan.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0293par0559	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to a motion to add a clause to the current Law Proposal 302 rows. I salute our beloved nation and your grand delegation who follow us. Yeah, it's actually my speech, of course, about the rights to martyr relatives and veterans. First, I thank and thank all our martyrs and veterans, especially Veterans Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who fought for his country, his flag, his nation without blinking. Yes, for them, there's little we can do, but for a long time, important work has been done, especially with martyr relatives and veterans. On September 12, 2010, there was also a declaration of equality about arrangements for martyr relatives and veterans, widows and orphans. Especially before I became a deputy, because of my great-grandfather's martyrdom, we had important work to do with the families of martyrs and veterans. I had some law proposals, too. In particular, one of my proposals was to establish a position of office. Without the law, the head of the agency was established under the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Good luck and good luck to our country. Of course, they provide important services. Another was about giving second jobs to the relatives of the martyr, which happened. Of course, that was a big problem. Especially if he died married, there were significant problems between the martyr, his children, his wife, his parents, and his relatives. The widow of the martyr caused a variety of disagreements between both her children and their parents and their siblings. From now on, this important problem is now resolved with the second job given. If the martyr died single, one of the parents and siblings will be eligible for two jobs. If the parents give up, two brothers will be able to use it. If he is married, one of the parents or siblings will use 1 (a.k.a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. If parents or brothers give up this right, one of their wives or two children will take it again. Of course, it's an important arrangement. We say good luck, good luck. Secondly, there was a particular problem with the mission martyrs: the situation of disability was being sought. I mean, if someone was a martyr, they would say to their parents, "Are you a loser?" Now this disability clause is being lifted. It was, indeed, a very important problem that came to us -- all of us -- must be coming to you. There's no longer a requirement for disability about the fallen relatives. From now on, the martyr's responsibility -- of course, while he's alive -- is a minimum wage for people over 16 years of age, whose parents can receive a salary without a disability requirement. Of course, there are other very important arrangements. Mr. Group Chairman Nurettin Canikli just mentioned it, but I'd like to talk about a few more. In particular, a new dam has been added to this law in order to show that it is under the protective roof of the state from civilian citizens who have died or have been crippled by self-instruction in the fight against terrorism. Again, traffic and road safety in Law on cash compensation and monthly bonding 2330 is granted to veterans as well as to those who were martyrs in the cases that occurred while serving in the transport and transports of prisoners and prisoners. Again, they are allowed to study in police schools and military schools and receive temporary registration or benefits from other rights, if the students under 18 years of age are a target of terrorism, if they lose their lives or become disabled. The care support for our veterans, the village rangers and civilian citizens, who are too heavily disabled to live without the help and support of others, is again given by this law, and maintenance support is doubled. Like this, regulations are being made, especially due to newly ruled rights and exemptions, in the past, about the debt to these individuals, the configuration and the drop of interest. It is intended to eliminate the victims of terrorism by a monthly commitment to the relatives of civilians who were injured in the fight against terrorism or terrorism. The number of people who have already been paid in death compensation with the current arrangement is 4,332, and the number of people who have been paid in damages and injuries is 1,791. There are still some very important arrangements, but, of course, today is probably going to be a work environment until morning again. I don't want to take too much time. I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ, our Minister of Fatma Şahin, who has done some very important work, on behalf of the people who have supported us in the adoption of this law, to all our ministers, commissions, and all our concerned friends. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0294par0575	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan. I submit a new clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. So 23 new substances and then 1 new item were added to the current text of the proposal as new materials. We're continuing on the existing provisions of the commission report, which is being discussed in order not to cause any confusion. There are two motions on Article 58: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Article 58 in the framework of the current Law Proposal 302 rows to the following form. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Alim Light Mehmet Erdoğan Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Günal Article 37 of this law takes effect on Article 39, Article 1/1/2020, the date of the release of other substances. We propose and propose that Article 58 of Law Proposal 302 be changed as follows. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Haydar Akar Mahmut Tanal Namik Havutça (Madde 58-All articles of this law are enforced on 31/07/2012. ▪ Does the Commission agree with the last motion I read?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0295par0597	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0294par0598	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0296par0599	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0294par0600	Who will discuss the motion on Article 58?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0297par0601	Mr. Develi...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0294par0602	Mr. Cameli, come in.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0298par0604	Mr. President, I have been promised to explain my thoughts on the number of articles in line. I want to tell my fellow lawmakers about how government resources have been robbed and squandered at this time of night, especially the AK PARTY, and I know that most of them don't know about it. When Turksat was founded in 2004, the satellite frequencies, links, Aycell company, Aria company, and from there, were used by the company Avea. Since 2002, the Court has been pursuing these satellite frequencies since 2011. Turksat wants the satellite's frequency in almost every commission period, he wants the cost, but Turk Telekom uses these frequencies that are not his own, perhaps for the infrastructure of Avea company's GSM operator, which is worth billions of dollars. Despite the state's resources, the state's resources, the ten-year AK PARTI administration, the bureaucrats of the EC PARTI, the heads of institutions, general managers, have written over and over again, the Court's inspectors have insisted and insisted that this satellite capacity be handed over to Turkasat (Turkish) or to his money, Turkey's Telekom gains an unfair benefit by not surrendering its satellite frequencies, despite the state's state. We've discussed this over and over at the CIT Commission with our friends from the EC PARTI, and we've discussed these satellite frequencies, which are the property of Turksat, of the public. We said, but at a very interesting point after ten years of non-inflicted correspondence, the commission report in 2010 is trying to forget about it with a simple water solution. Friends, these satellite frequencies are the property of the public, and the government of the EC PARTY is the property of the state in power. The Turkish company Telekom Avea, which we do not have a majority share in, is using it unfairly. The price comes to billions of dollars. I'm asking you, as a government, to help take these resources from the state, the public, 51 per cent of them, that are not ours, that are not public property, that were privatized in 2005, in 2004, from the hands of the Turkish Telekom. Let's not feed government, public interest, money to private companies, companies we don't have a majority stake in. I'm asking the AK PARTY MPs to be sensitive to the issue. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0299par0613	Thank you, Mr. Develi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Article 58 in the framework of the current Law Proposal 302 rows to the following form. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends. Article 37 of this Law takes effect on Article 39, Article 1/1/2020, the date of the release of other substances. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0300par0621	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0299par0622	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0301par0623	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0299par0624	Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0302par0626	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, while the general law was being discussed and there was a clause above that we were very concerned about, the 39th article, you know, about the Court's control authority. We told you up there, our friends told me here, and I was talking about the importance of this substance. At least in our proposal, we wanted to put it forward and allow us to review changes in the Law of the Court. You didn't pay attention to what we said, but the lines I'm going to read now belong to Mr. President Abdullah Gül, whom you've all been defending. Look what the Court said just a month ago on the anniversary of May 29th, Mr. President. What did the dear friends say about what we've broken in this arrangement? It says: "It's a beautiful, truly reformable law. " So he says it's what we've broken, Minister. ▪ We all need to uphold this law, and there is no need to be afraid of it. Therefore, we need to be aware of its value and that we have given a great deal to Turkey. Now, that's what we said, you're not paying attention to what we're saying. Now, I'd like to tell you a few more things that Mr. President has told you so that we can return when the road is near. It says that when we say "counttay," there are two basic conditions for democracies. One is transparency, the other is accountability. Of course, democracies have many other fundamental principles, but there are two very important points in this context. One, you will answer, and the second, you will be transparent. In fact, as long as these are incomplete, these two principles, no state can tell anyone that they are fair, that they are in the principles of righteousness, that they observe justice and law. So what is it? We have to abide by these two rules.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0303par0631	That's what it is!
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0302par0632	I'm asking you to listen, I'm speaking the President's words. Mr. President says: "Because if you spend what you spend behind closed doors, how you spend it; if the answer is not given the account, if there is no transparency about it, such a state will never try the modern state. And democracy can never be mentioned. In that regard, important tasks fall to the Court. He says and warns: "We must never consider numbers a liability. From the moment we see it like this, we are completely in the wrong, and I would like to remind you once again that it is in dictatorships and oligarchs that we do not account for financial matters and administrative matters. What's he saying, Mr. President, is that there's no accountability in Dictatorships and oligarchies.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0304par0635	We're thinking the same thing, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0302par0636	Now, are you a dictatorship or an oligarch? Why do you remove this arrangement by taking away the authority of the President to oversee what he says?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0304par0637	No, no one's been cleared. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0302par0638	Now, look, nothing's been done here yet. My dear friends, in order for this to happen on December 19, 2010, according to the Law of the Court, the audits must be made, and then the reports must come out, and you have condemned this clause to invalidate the controls from the reports that have not yet been done. Dear friends, let's take this into consideration, and let's take into account the errors here, because first of all, there's going to be a report, there's going to be an evaluation, there's going to be a discussion, and then there's something that you're going to come up with about something that doesn't even exist yet, and we're going to defuse it. So -- and I said up there -- what's the Court going to do if they don't control activity, efficiency, economics? What are you afraid of? I mean, why are you afraid of the Court? Mr. President has warned you about these matters, and his views are clear. Probably, maybe he'll veto too -- we don't know -- because he said it clearly when there's trouble tomorrow, because he said it clearly: "If not, it's dictatorship, it's oligarchy." So, come on, support this motion of ours, and we'll get a chance to review it in the next legislature, and I'll give you all some respect and good night.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0305par0644	Thank you, Mr. Günal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Commission has a request.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0306par0647	Mr. President, in order to be in line with the law technique, it's the fact that temporary substances are involved after the abuse of materials, and that's the first thing. The second issue is the amendment of Article 58, or Article 37, to Article 43, to Article 43, referred to in Article 38. The final issue is that we will have a request to edit the 6th and 7th amendments of the law proposal, which we are still discussing. The agreement on the approval of the concerned minister before the declaration of establishing a company (d) under Article 278 of Law 278 (d) under the 6th Amendment of the proposal was added with a motion given in our Commission talks. However, the addition of this declaration (e) to the bench has been forgotten, and the same has been the case in Article 7 of the article. Therefore, we would like to request the addition of the letter upon the approval of the concerned minister to be added upon the approval of the first joke (e) of Article 278 of Law 278 (i.e. to form a company before the declaration (i.e. to form a company) and to be added to Article 278 (i.e. to form a company) under Article 4 (i.e. to form a company) on the basis of the approval of the Minister of the Minister (i.e.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0307par0650	Does the government agree with these corrections?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0308par0651	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0307par0652	Then I submit these corrections to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 59: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 59 of Law Proposal 302 be changed as follows. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Erdoğan Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Alim İktay Öçal At 59 - These provisions are carried out by the Council of Ministers. We propose and propose that Article 59 of the Law, which is currently in session, be changed in the following way. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Haydar Akar Mahmut Tanal Namik Havutça At 59 - The execution of these laws belongs to the Council of Ministers. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0309par0672	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0307par0673	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0310par0674	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0311par0675	Mr. Kadir Gökmen Reminder...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0307par0676	Mr. Reminder, here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0312par0678	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I told you about the health workers' problems last week when the Business Safety Act was being discussed. With this law, medical school intern students have received an important guarantee. However, in much more difficult circumstances, spending money out of his own pocket has been a major injustice to the students of dentistry who are facing all kinds of health risks, who contribute an important economic contribution to the state by looking at patients in the 4th and 5th grade. Before the entire law is passed, the right of dental school students in this situation must be handed over. It's a huge influx of social media. Congressmans, I'm going to tell you now about two Turkish views. As of 2009, Mustafa Balbay, who was in the Silivri persecution hall, described the situation at his trial on March 28, 2011: ▪ The conditions of the prison are very bad. February 28th, 4th. I was staying with Tuncay Ozkan. At about 5:00 p.m., the officers came and said, "There is love." They asked us to pack all our things. We were put in solitary cells at 3:00 a.m. I was told we'd be separated. When I asked him why, it was an order from Ankara. We received his answer. It's not a cell, it's not a ward. 34 mechanics came in the first 20 days. The cells are flooded with sewers. After the repairs, the contractor came, asking if there were any others missing. So I said, "Why did you hand over the prison like this?" He replied, "We haven't delivered the prison yet." Prisoners from the contractor have taken over Silivri Prison. What you're most forbidden to do is see other people. You won't go near anyone, no one will come to you. You'll have to wait here by yourself. This place, called cells, is made up of seven tiles. Balbay counted the tiles on the floor one by one:..3 tile beds, 4 tile gaps. The cabinet closed two tiles of four tiles. The entire width is 3 meters and 44 centimeters. It can only be moved sideways in there. This is where the food is eaten. There's a four-fingery gap under the ventilation door. The cell's cold. In the winter, the void must be covered. (Balbay covered the gap with a blanket so that it would not be cold.) And I'm going to talk about what's in another book. The book Born of a Leader in 2010 describes the Pınarhisar Prison where the Prime Minister lies as follows: "The permits required from my administration have been taken. Ward's been cleared. Paper's covered. The floor is carpeted. The water heater, the freezer, the fridge, the washing machine, the conference table, the leather seats, the big screen television. The door was renovated only to be bolted from the inside. There was a fish party with waiters from outside. In fact, the prosecutor stumbled upon this invitation and the waiters. He asked them what they were doing here, but they couldn't continue. The same conditions are provided for Mehmet Agar at this time. It is our greatest wish to ensure that these conditions are provided for those who suffer in the Silivri persecution hall and in prisons such as Urbana, Buca, Pozanti, Diyarbakır. Dear lawmakers, we're either last or last in most areas of human rights violations. The Turkish Bill of Human Rights Act has been adopted in the last few weeks, but I would like to point out that all AKP's statements and actions regarding human rights are far from serious. I'm asking the authorities: How many times has the Prime Ministerial Committee for Human Rights, established in 2001, met? On 26 February 2003, Professor Ibrahim Kaboglu's board held a red card for the invasion of Iraq and March 1st. The same board opposed the government's authority to send troops to Iraq, considering Mehmetçik's right to live, and, ironically, the board, which is required to meet three times a year according to regulations, was suddenly offended. The actions and provisions of this board have disturbed the AKP's government. The Human Rights Advisory Board has also been a victim of Prime Minister Erdogan and his cabinet's advanced understanding of democracy, such as many who hold a mirror to the AKP and the institution. The AKP's aim to draft the bill is nothing more than to dazzle the EU and the public. You know, the National Productivity Center has been renamed by this law, returned to the Department of Efficiency. They want to be encouraged as they did in Parliament, TRT, and TÜİK, as they were when their staff was being referred to retirement. You know, TRT was encouraged to retire nearly 40 per cent. I bid you all good evening, thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0313par0686	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 59 of Law Proposal 302 be changed as follows. Oktay Vural (Izmir) and his friends At 59 - These provisions are carried out by the Council of Ministers. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0314par0694	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0313par0695	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0315par0696	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0313par0697	Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0316par0699	Thank you, Mr. President. We're at the end of another bag of laws. In fact, unfortunately, a bag of laws that shouldn't be in our Parliament law sometimes turns into soup. So it's not right for the ruling party to use this bag of laws as a method, so we're going to have to refer to the Plan and Budget Commission as a torque commission. This law also came in accordance with 37 articles, 3 temporary, 2 executives, and 57+3+2 from the Commission; now 91+3 from the Parliamentary General Assembly is temporary and 2 from the Parliamentary General Assembly. This technique, which changes many laws, is actually very important to the law of law. In this regard, the Council of Ministers shall carry out this law. When I said this, I actually thought that I should make the motion that Nurettin Canikli conducts these laws because there's no other way to get out of this bag. There are no issues in this bag that we desire. The subcontractors couldn't get into this bag, the municipal workers couldn't get into this bag, the pensioners couldn't get in, the 4/C have not gotten in, the workers in the service transport units didn't get in. Unfortunately, there's no regulation in this bag about the infringements of commitments being put in jail. While fighting terrorism in Turkey, those who promote separatism, those who offer forgiveness for those who commit crimes, unfortunately, did not organise a violation of the commitment. But in spite of all that, I think the best job is that the government is the unconditional nation. I want to say that if we can defend the sovereignty of the nation here today, the unbreakable integrity of the nation, I want to say that the Turkish Grand National Assembly has taken positive steps at the point of solving their problems, at least because of our martyrs and veterans who have shed their lives for it. Indeed, we find it very important to have this will here, with the help of groups who have signed all these motions, so that we could make these arrangements that we all care about very much, if only we could have done it sooner, but not after this summer's next legislation year. Let's not forget, dear lawmakers, if we can actually speak in Parliament today, if the sovereignty, the sovereignty of the nation, the undistributable integrity of the nation, each one of us here, in person, remember that those of us who make sure that all of us do this task -- those who provide it freely -- have these martyrs, veterans, and these martyrs and veteran families. For him, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we certainly owe it to those who have died and shed blood for it. In fact, what we give is not a pride, but a right. I know their greatest honor is to be a family of martyrs, to be a veteran, the greatest honor of honor. In that regard, what we give financially, what we bring in here to solve some of their problems, is not what we give and what we give in our pockets. I would like to point out that in exchange for a more deserved, well-earned fight to the end, there is a result of a thank-you statement from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Here, in this bag, I give our thanks as the National Movement Party Group to all groups who raise their fingers and sign the best work in the law.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit06spe0317par0707	Thank you very much, Mr. Vural. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 59th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 59th article has been accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0317par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 131st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 302 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Now, the main Commission has a demand in accordance with Article 89 of the Civil Code on the renegotiation of Article 83, which has been added to the proposal by Article 1 of the proposed law. The presidency will grant this request. I'm reading the Council's opinion on the motion of the main Commission to renegotiate the proposed law. Date: 03.07.2012 Article 1 of the 302 Law Proposal with the latest 83 added to the proposal. The request of the main commission to renegotiate the clause under Article 89 of the Council of Ministers has been approved by the Council of Ministers. Nurettin Canikli M. Akif Hamzacebi Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party The counsel board's opinion has been presented to your knowledge. [[Continue]] Now I'm going to read the original Commission's request and put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The last to be added to the proposal was Article 83, under Article 1 of the Law Proposal, where there was a amendment to certain Laws and Laws. I propose that the clause be renegotiated under Article 89 of the Institution. Since the 1st article of the proposal is needed to be edited more clearly, it is requested to be re-interviewed. I submit to your votes the original Commission's request that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In that case, I am renegotiating the first amendment of the proposal. Anyone want a word on item 1? No. No questions, no answers. There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first amendment of the current Law Proposal 302 rows be changed as follows. Kadir Gökmen Öğüt İhsan Kalkavan Mehmet Doğan Kubat Article 1-10/2/1954 and Article 6245 added the following clause. "Edition 3-31/5/2006 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act No. 510 of Article 4 (c) shall be paid to the guardians of those they are obliged to look at under the First Amendment (c) by themselves and under the Law referred to, as well as those they are obliged to look at, as well as those they have been sent abroad for treatment in accordance with the procedure of their treatment, as well as those who have been sent abroad for a period of treatment, on condition that they should be paid by the social security agency on the basis of Article 66 of Act 5510, and on the basis of documentation. This sentence has been sent to treatment abroad in accordance with the regulations taken in accordance with Article 5510 prior to the implementation of the Act, and is also applied to the guardians of patients whose treatments continue or are treated for the same disease at the time of the application of this clause. Those who enter the second joke must be applied to their rights institutions within a year of the date of the period before this clause is in effect. The housing costs under this clause are covered by the institution concerned with the person being treated. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0318par0051	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0317par0052	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0319par0053	We agree.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0317par0054	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0320par0055	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0317par0056	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to make matter more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the first article is accepted. I will now renegotiate Article 83. No one wants a word. No questions, no answers. There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 83, which was added to the current Law Proposal of 302 rows, be removed from the proposal text, and that other substances be identified accordingly. Ünal Kacır Osman Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Firstnur Denizli Erol Kaya Salih Husband Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0321par0072	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0317par0073	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0322par0074	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0317par0075	There's no demand for speech. It's 83 for a more detailed assessment of the subject. It has been deemed appropriate for the item to be removed from the proposal text. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion has been accepted, so the item is removed from the proposal text. The votes of all substances are complete. Istanbul MP Akif Hamzacebi to state the color of the game before voting the entire proposal. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0323par0086	Mr. President, lawmakers, we've reached the end of negotiations on a bag of legislation, all articles accepted. I'll tell you about the bill: there are very positive arrangements for the bill. In particular, the twenty-three proposed proposals for martyrs and veterans are favourable. In maybe one or two of these motions, we have different views as the Republican People's Party group, and all of the others have signatures as Republican People's Party, and we've supported them all. These are extremely late arrangements. In relation to martyrs, relatives of veterans, spouses and children, brothers and fathers, there are many law proposals from our Republican People's Party regarding the state's ability to provide them with a number of possibilities, or the victims of terrorism, as to how their wounds have been handled. Mr. Hope Oran, Hülya Güven, Erdogan Earth, Ahmet Toptaş and I, Akif Hamzacebi, have submitted these proposals to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and during these studies, we have been trying to evaluate these proposals as part of a compromise. I wish you the best of these arrangements. We're very positive about these, we're supportive. Again, an arrangement on teachers has been made for the neglect of 30,000 teachers' staffs. You'll remember, not long ago, there was an offer of law for the Republican People's Party Group to commit 100,000 teaching staffs and to appoint these staffs by the end of 2012. As the bidder, I explained the reasons for our offer from this bench, the need for a teacher for national education, but this offer was not accepted upon the opinion of Mr. Minister of National Education. Mr. Minister of National Education has taken this stand and said that we cannot give this staff to the teachers. So, if we give this staff, we can't get any teachers in the years to come, so the need should spread to time, so it should be taken over time -- maybe not 5,000 or 10,000 teachers every year -- but let's keep it that long, otherwise all of a sudden the teachers are going to be psychologically depressed. Anyway, this meeting has been effective, Mr. Minister of National Education, so that we can at least retain at least 30,000 staff members. It has reached the point, which is one step, but this step is not enough. Come, as soon as the House opens, let's make sure the Ministry of National Education has all the staff they need. Our offer is 100,000, 30,000, 70 grand to go. In fact, even with 100 grand, the need for a national education is not met by a teacher. Let's meet this in October as soon as the House opens. The proposal also has negative regulations for this legal offer, primarily the Court arrangement. The Court arrangement is an arrangement that removes the Court from its constitutional mandate. The Court is tasked with overseeing public institutions' income and property in accordance with the law, and is tasked with investigating the fiscal tables on the expense results of these institutions and reporting them to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey whether it is true or not. The amendment has been taken away from you to investigate the veracity of the financial tables of the public's income and assets. He'll say no. He'll say it's the ruling party speakers, but the definition of regularity control is what I said it was, and the Court's job was taken. This is the removal of the constitutional duty of the Court, which oversees public spending on behalf of the nation, on behalf of Parliament, is the removal of the nation's budget rights. This is a very important arrangement, which clearly violates the Constitution. It is also part of the bill, such as the Court's compliance with the regulations that the executive body will make and regard it as legislation that must be observed. This is an extremely negative arrangement.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0324par0092	Please complete your statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0323par0094	Thank you, Mr. President, I'm tidying up. The provision of the law to establish a company and to carry out its duties through this company is clearly against the Article 128 (28) of the Constitution. Article 128 of the Constitution states that the original and permanent duties of the state will be carried out by government officials or contracted personnel or other public personnel, a very clear provision. You can't get these services through a company channel. The services of university students regarding the examinations of students who will enter the university must be provided directly by the state. Again, the arrangement for the establishment of the company of TÜBİTAK (TİBİTAK) is contrary to the regulation of the Constitution (TÜBİTAK) that everyone has the right to freely access to science. And we find these amendments negative, and that's where I'm going to put it. I thank you, all of you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0325par0101	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Congressmans, the whole proposal is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, as a result of the open vote of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws and Legislatures: ▪ Number of votes used: 266 [[x]] Thus, the offer has been accepted and legalized.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0326par0114	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0325par0115	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0326par0116	Sir, thank you, Mr. President. As MPs of the National Movement Party, we voted for all of them in the open vote, but of course there is a bag of law, there is a change in many laws. We have issues that we object to, we have issues that we oppose, we have reserves for court control, but there are martyr families that we contribute to, there are regulations for our veterans. So the National Movement Party's vote isn't for all the issues involved in this bag of legislation, it's about the positive, it's about what we contribute. I felt the need to state in terms of which direction our will is, in order to make it into the reports. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0327par0119	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0328par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. I've expressed our views on the entire bill, or rather, at the last speech, once again. We supported our martyrs, our veterans, their relatives, and the arrangements regarding the victims of terrorism as the Republican People's Party Group, we signed motions, but at that point our support was complete, whether it was the Court, TÜBİTAK, the Centre for Measurement, Selection Placement, and the Constitution, we did not support the arrangements that we found contrary to the Constitution. So we ask that our attitude toward the bill be discussed in this framework. Thank you. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0329par0125	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. The Commissioner has a request for a speech. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0330par0128	Mr. President, I'd like to thank our members of the Plan and Budget Commission for their support to all of our fellow MPs and party groups.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit07spe0329par0129	Thank you, sir. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0331par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 131st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 3rd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Health, Family, and Social Affairs Commission Report Against the Statement of the State of Emergency, and with the Law on Making Changes in Some Laws and Laws. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 301 rows. Congressmans, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, after negotiations on the entire bill have been agreed to be completed and transferred to its articles, the chapters will be discussed, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Ali Öz, MP of Mersin who has asked for the National Movement Party Group on the entire bill.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0332par0013	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the Bill of the Law on Changes in Some Laws and Laws, with an executive decree on the Offices of the Ministry of Health and Connected Institutions, 301. I salute the grand jury. I'd like to celebrate now the Berat Kandili, which we'll be able to understand tomorrow, as well as all the Turkish nation and my fellow congressmen in Congress. (x) 301 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Dear lawmakers, health is not only a condition of illness or disability, but also a form of full goodness in physical, spiritual, and social aspects. Health care is a natural - earned human right and should be given equally to everyone in the community. In response to the fact that health care is a human right and health care is a form of social service, institutions that provide these services in our country are becoming increasingly profitable. The Health Transformation Programme, which has been implemented since 2002, has made the concepts of performance, score, processing, competition, introduction, profit and business a part of their lives, even though physicians don't want it. Doctors and health workers have found themselves in different working conditions in the health care environment, which has changed with the Change in Health Programme. The policies that have been implemented have created unhappiness and concern for the future in physicians. The general reason for the 301 law that we are discussing today is the use of health facilities and university-owned units in the Ministry of Health in order to increase savings, activities and efficiency in health care services. The main purpose of health care is not to save money, but to protect health, to identify the disease early and treat it when it cannot be protected, and to provide rehabilitation for those who are unable to recover from treatment. In short, the main goal in health care is to provide regular, decent, and qualified services at the time. We see positively that the medical obligation in the C-section in Article 1 of the bill, which includes the resolving of the amendments made in this framework, is to improve the medical obligation in the C-section of the 1st article, for expert medical examiners at the higher education institutions in Article 4, and that the ministry's lawyers in Article 17 shall be acting without the need of a power of attorney. However, public and especially disadvantaged groups in health care are neglectable, risk groups increase, and our citizen's protective health work cannot benefit from the necessary services, particularly. That's when unwanted pregnancies increase. The goal of health care now, unfortunately, is to do more income work, look for more patients, and study more. In fact, physicians are encouraged by directors, such as performance, bonuses, to provide more income for the institution and themselves by having more studies. In addition, most of the increased number of polyclinics is a repeat prescription. It is also known that most of the increased study results are normal. This gives the impression that the increase is artificial. The basis for building billion-dollar campuses under the name of health campuses, far from the majority of society's access, instead of the most rational, efficient and rational way to assess the country's available facilities by showing that Turkey needs many hospitals. Healthy campuses, on the other hand, are a question of need and integrity. Besides, what makes more sense is the support of diagnostics and treatment institutions more than hospitals. There has been a radical change of understanding in our health care system with the 663th Amendment, which directly affects about 700,000 health workers and 74 million of our people living in our country who apply to public hospitals every day. The health policy of the republic's era has been abandoned, giving priority to social understanding and protective health care. On average 500-1 is the average payment of the staff, the deputy chief of health, the branch manager, the hospital manager, and the hospital director's assistant, to additional payments to the return capital and additional funds, which will be assigned to the investigative staff, based on the objective criteria to replace the new staffs that have been cancelled by this decree. We have concerns about how to compensate for the loss of financial rights for $500 and how to create a new staffing process. Precious lawmakers, according to TİİK data, the public's share in public health expenditure is 67.8 per cent, private sector share 32.2 per cent, and pocket health expenditures are 21.8 per cent. The annual number of applications to health facilities is 1.7 in 1994; 3.0 in 2002; 7.7 in 2011. In 2002, the number of examinations increased from 184 million to 492 million in 2011. In 2011 alone, the number of annual dental examinations was 7 million. These figures lead us to the following results: As the state's share of health care presentations is reduced or the private sector's share increases, health expenditure per person is increasing, and it is difficult for the state to finance health care. In this case, it is inevitable for a citizen to contribute. As the number of applications increases, the need for more rational health policies increases, the use of rational medicine and protective care are more important. Therefore, the state must continue to offer health care. It's also the need to be a social government. Hospital troops and hospital privatisations that will follow are not the answer and should not be done. Otherwise, the public's contribution to health care will increase and will come to the point where he does whatever he has no money to do. Although we have expressed our concerns over and over again, we regret the insensitivity of power. Another component of the Health Transformation Programme is the arrangements for patient rights. The 184 line, which has been established as the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health Communication Centre to address the problems that patients face during receiving health care, has been transformed into an active and widespread delivery and intervention platform used by sick and sick relatives. The meaning of these processes is that physicians, who have been relatively autonomous in the past, will continue their professions today in line with more bureaucratic and market control, because health bureaucracy and political power have radically reconstructed the health field to make public services both financially and politically Rantabular. According to physicians, one of the most fundamental reasons for breaking harmony among health workers is the fact that employees in health care have no job and definitions, that there are different jobs and prices among employees, that temporary tasks exist, and that the return capital is an inequality distribution. Therefore, in order to create team consciousness, all health workers must be restored to the same employment status, the wages paid to employees must be in a way that does not destroy team awareness, and in the same professional categories the wages must not be created inequality and temporary tasks must be terminated. My fellow lawmakers, the most important demand of health workers in general, physicians in private, is that the concept of right to work is valued by the definition of the concept of the right to work. In response to a measure of customer satisfaction in the sustained health care system, there is a great lack of the right to work and the right to study health care as a whole and the concepts of working satisfaction are not included. It is imperative that this deficiency be completed immediately and that health care units and health care system constantly monitor and assess these concepts. In this bill we're talking about, we think that the legal support for the violence of healthcare workers in particular is significant, it's a late practice, but it's our demand as the National Movement Party. The bill we're discussing today at the General Assembly has once again uncovered our legitimate concerns. The second sentence of Article 25 of Article No. 663, with Article 4 of the bill, is expected to be removed from effect. At the same time, the state health managers have been removed from the governor's health department's position as a county representative. There is a gap in the provinces as to who the governor's health counselor will be and who the Ministry's representative will be in the province. In accordance with the 7th article of the bill, the additional payments to the investigative staff who were assigned to the investigative staff under Article 663 shall be paid by their former staff for six months, according to the former duties. However, there is a definite lack of financial rights losses and continued loss of personnel assigned to the investigative staff of the municipal health manager, branch manager, manager and vice principal. According to the address registration system, education and research services can be provided by the Ministry of Health or one of the university health practices and research centres, according to the 11th article of the bill. In this way, a choice is envisioned between the Ministry and the university, and we are concerned that the non-chosen service unit may fall into position or be shut down. The 13th article of the bill envisions that a duty of duty can be provided to family physicians and family health providers, mobile hospitals, oral and dental clinics and 112 emergency health care units. However, a provision contrary to the needs of services intended by the practice of family medicine will result in setbacks in the services of citizens who receive services from family physicians and family health staff. To illustrate, if you think that a friend of yours was a physician working at your family health centre again in the morning at 112 pm, will you be able to take a sick child to him freely? On the other hand, we need to have a hesitation as to how someone who's only producing a family health care, who's been away from emergency cases at a certain time, will be able to intervene in an ambulance because of an acute myocardic infarction that you may have a relative. Paramedic staff have been dispossessed for years, and they have suffered a great deal in everything. At the collective contract table, firefighters have been granted the right to switch to general administrative services without exams, but health care workers have been victimised. In addition, there was no test, even though eight months ago the servants were trained to advance to the data-preparing control management. The service personnel were expected to be passed without exams or added to the bag of legislation on reassignment of services, but unfortunately that didn't happen either. In the third article of this bill, those who have obtained a certificate of midwifeship as of the date when this clause is in effect have continued their duties with the authority of a nurse within three months of the day that this clause has been officially a nurse in the institution for at least three years. The nursing code was changed in 2007. In the second and fourth jokes of the temporary clause, those who have received a midwife's degree, which is a one-time midterm certificate, and who have documented the fact that they have been a nurse for at least three years in the history of this law, and who have demanded it within three months of its application, continue their duties with the authority of a nurse. According to this, midwives who have applied have claimed responsibility for nursing duties and responsibilities, but are working in the midterm staff. In Turkey, the Nurse's title is clearly specified in Nurse's Law No. 6283. If the transfer of these midwife nurses to normal nurse status is the application we've taken as a result of the European Union integration talks and to complete the deficit, perhaps at some point it can be answered. But let's not forget that the education of midwifes and nurses is completely different. The sister's description was made clear in the official Journal of 8/3/2010. The nursing profession is not a substitute for that professional group in the absence of anyone in the health profession. With independent and semi-independent roles, law, regulations, and ethical principles and responsibilities, it is a profession in itself. Hence, it is wrong to perceive midwifery and nursing as the same profession and to expect each other to take their place. There is a shortage of nurses in Turkey. We have a lot of nurses to be asked to employ foreign nurses. Although they are told to graduate from health vocational upper secondary schools at a child's age. Despite being told, 15,000 nurses as family health staff, the employment of the family physicians, the employment of about 10,000 nurses as dental clinic assistants, is not being certified to provide equipment to public dental clinics, the employment of nurses, other than the duty of nurses, nursing duties and responsibilities. Again, the bill that we discussed includes a particular substance related to tobacco and tobacco products and bongs. This is a meaningful clause in the bill that we have discussed, especially since it has forbidden children under 18 years of age, young people, to drink to a bong that we do not know if there is tobacco in it. Dear lawmakers are considered without question the need for the most rational and efficient use of available resources to address endless variety of health problems with limited resources. The way to be followed is to first identify problems, prioritize them, and then try to resolve them in the most efficient ways. The present - day content of modern public health is vast. The key to this understanding is social equality. Health care is a natural-born human right. These services should be brought not only to those who can buy them, but also to everyone in the community and to those who live in the most remote settlements. I salute you all with a clean environment and the desire for a healthy society that we will leave to future generations, and I wish the law to be good luck and good luck to our country.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0333par0045	Thank you. Mersin MP Aytüğ Atı asking for the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0334par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group about the State Department of Health and its Joint Organization and its Offices and the Amendment to certain Law and Law provisions. I salute all lawmakers who have not been mortgaged on their free will. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, at this hour of the night, at 20 minutes to two, we discuss health in unhealthy conditions. It's really remarkable, but even though we've said it over and over again, we've given our warnings as physicians, and we've had no results. I think we're starting a debate that's going to take about seven hours, which is expected to last. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you remember, we've asked for a commission to investigate increased violence against health workers and to provide them with a solution. The reason for the establishment of this commission was that the violence was significantly dependent on AKP's health policies. First you rejected our request, then you had to accept it when a friend was killed. You agreed, but you couldn't get a member of the commission. It's been two months, and you've put it on hold for two months, and you've reported your members just as Congress is going on vacation. I never understood why you were acting like this at the time, so what happened, AKP said yes, okay, but why isn't there a fight, why, people don't want to work on this commission, I just couldn't figure out, but when this bill came to the agenda, I kind of understood why. We made it clear that you wanted to make another attempt to smuggle property out of a fire, legalize this dangerous, commercial-smelling law and then form a violent commission. Because you realized that this bill would also fuel violence, and you wanted to pass this law before you started commission work. You think no one notices this, but you're wrong. Everyone notices that, you can't fool anyone anymore. Now, about this bill. About eight months ago, you will attempt to correct Judgement 663 here at midnight, with the right of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to make law, including AKP MPs. Friends, you all know that the authority to issue a decree under the law is a mandate for extraordinary times, for extraordinary situations, and again, according to the Constitution, if you have issued a decree under the law, you must bring it to Parliament at the first opportunity. I turn to you now: in your ten years of power, and alone, there are no coalitions, such as a thornless rose garden, you have not been able to properly pass the Department of Health's Agency law. And then you went out and imposed on us an arbitrary, out-of-the-box, inconsistencies, inconsistencies, inconsistencies, in the form of a law made in the sense of a company. When? It's the last day before the deadline of this mandate. And you tampered with the DNA of the healthcare system, and you put the health system in an impasse. Well, you've brought the decree of the law. We get it, it could be, I mean, it's happened in the past. So, did you bring this to our House and discuss it with us? You didn't argue. Why? Amir says, "If you have issued a decree in the court of law, I understand you, you will bring it to the House as soon as possible, and you will discuss it." Why didn't you do it? Someone has to explain this to me. Now, you're trying to correct the rule of law that you missed, the law that you didn't bring to the House. I wish you could fix it, I wish you'd do it better, and we'll soon know when you're in the details that you're making the law more complicated and worse. What are you doing this for? I mean, why are you ruining our healthcare system so much? Why are you letting this happen? Because you're selling the health of 75 million of our people, and unfortunately, by increasing serious health expenditures, our money goes to the services of transnational forces, but let no one despair, the Republican People's Party, which has restored the corrupt order left by the people of the country in the past, and paid the debt to the world by 1950, will fix everything you've ruined. We have no doubt about it, nor do our people have any doubt about it. So why bother now, if we're against it? From time to time, they say, "You come to power, you fix it." No, it's not a puzzle board. The sooner we save our people from this damage, the less damage, the better. Now, let's look at the details of the bill. Let's see what this bill brings, what it takes. Now, you know, when drafting a bill or a bill of law, the matter is listed as item one, item two. So I've named these substances in my own way; the 1st article is a coded substance. There's a phrase in the comedy clause that says that if there's a medical obligation for a child or a baby in her womb, it can be performed with a C-section. Where's comedy? Is he bringing anything new? No. When I talked to my grandmother, she was saying that in my grandmother's day: "My son, the birth happens the normal way." Why do these women have a C-section? We were saying, "Grandma, you have to do it for her." Even then, my grandmother and I discussed it, and even she knew that the birth had to be done the normal way. Now, why do you bring in the know-it-all and bring in the law? It's really funny. It's a comedy, but it's tragic, it's tragic. What is it? The Prime Minister has come out and said, "The Caesarian is murder, and we will make the law of it." He wouldn't take that back. He realized it was a mistake. In fact, perhaps the abortion was murder. As he later said, perhaps it came out of his mouth. So I'm optimistic again. He probably called this C-section a murder, but it came out once. Yeah, well, you're human, you might get it wrong. I mean, I mean, I'm sorry. I mean, it's the wrong thing to say. I didn't mean it either. He didn't, and when something like this came out of the Prime Minister's mouth, I mean, let's make it a law. People got caught up in it, but they put the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in a position like this. We're really ashamed of it. I'm looking at the paramedics, so they've filled out an important portion of the living room. How do they allow the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to determine the need for the C-section, not the physician's, but the Assembly's? There are doctors in you all these years, how you feed yourself this, and you say, "Yes, we're about to lift our finger on this, and the Parliament will decide how to do the C-section, in which case it's going to be done." Legislature can't put into the cesarean care, ignoring the traits of physicians, education, authority, the experience of medical art, conscience. We're being ridiculous. There's no such thing in any of the world legislatures, and it's a first but a black sheep's first in medical history, I'm afraid. You had no right to bring this to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. How are you going to tell people that when you're done acting, when you're back in college? So why did you make a law without bringing anything that was known? I'm really curious what you're going to say when they say. I suppose you'll decide who gets an angiogram, who gets a bypass, who gets antibiotics in the next health-related bill?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0335par0059	Angio is attempted murder!
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0334par0060	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, my dear friends, let's sit on a curve, and let's be clear, the rate of cesareans in Turkey is high. In medical school, we've always told our students that childbirth should be done in normal ways, that it's wrong to do a C-section unjustly, and that we don't give them our rights. Really, what's coming now is a depressing, depressing spot. Our C-sections are too high, it's got to be lowered, but the method is not to put any substance into the law. Look, when the AKP came to power in 2002, our C-section rates were 21 percent, the figures of the Ministry of Health. How did your 21% C-section get up to 48 percent after ten years in 2012? How did it happen? Why did it happen? So, I'm looking, is this something that's unique to Turkey? No. C-section rates have always been high in countries where the health system has been privatized, passed on to monopolyes. So I say, why did the C-section increase in Turkey? If you say, "Why did the C-section increase in Turkey?" Instead of making the law, go back, leave the doctors alone, and look at health policies. You have to see this now. Instead of blaming doctors and mothers, look at yourself. Doctors from ten years ago -- most of them, living -- are the same obstetricians ten years ago, women are the same; so, the medical teaching we teach is the same, but it doesn't prioritize the C-section. So, what's up with the C-section? What's changed? The changing AKP mentality. Now, I've named another item, which was me, which was the trick of the same substance, the trick of the first article. It says: "Despite the necessary measures, the doctor cannot be held responsible for the unwanted consequences of the birth of a mother or a baby." And they also say: "We protect that doctor. " For God's sake, look, next time I read the important part of the sentence: "The doctor can't be held responsible if he takes necessary measures." So if something happened to the mother or the baby after the doctor took the necessary precautions, would he be held responsible? No, it wasn't. So, what made you put this stuff in? Who are you kidding? We need to turn around and take a look. Of course, this substance has a dangerous condition. My fellow physicians will understand me better. Now this substance has become a remarkable substance. As soon as the lawyers read this clause, they'll look at every birth carefully at every pregnancy, and we'll give it to the courts to see if they've taken the necessary precautions, and then we'll die before they save our lives. Now I'm going to switch to a new item, which is a full-time lie clause. That's what I call the 6th Amendment. This is now added to this bill, indicating that the full-time AKP (AKP) called it, and the Full-Day Law, which he is proud of -- in quotes -- is bankrupt. How? Look, first you forced the faculty to leave the universities. You said: "You will either work full-time or you will go." I remind you that we are with the Full-Day Law, and that we have offered a law in November last year. Fortunately, I've no longer heard the AKP's statement against the full day, which means we've been able to tell you, and we've given you a law proposal. Now you've forced these teachers, these experts, they've chosen some of them, and they've gone out. Now you're saying: "Excuse me, I've done wrong, I need you, I'm going to buy you services. First you've done everything you can to get him out of college, you've thrown him into the hands of the private sector, and now you're saying: "I'll buy service from some of you. You've put the article in this percentage, this much. Who will you buy services from? If you were going to buy services now, why did you push them away? You realize that the mine is wrong, it's possible, it's possible, it's the government, but you can do it wrong, and you're human, so you say, "I'm sorry, we did it wrong. What do we do? Yeah, let's do it full-time. Let us pay the physicians their wages, let them come. Let us take much more advantage of them. You say, "No, I will buy services from the teacher I want. You will also pay ten times the tuition fee for the teachers who put all of it into the university. Then you'll say: "I can run 80 hours a month." Look, 80 hours. What is it? Don't work half the time. Eighty hours, a hundred and sixty hours. What happened when you said this could work for eight hours? Where's the full day? You've taken the full day, you've brought the part-time again. I mean -- I swear I'm sad, I swear -- yes, as the main opposition, we want you to make a mistake, we want you to walk around -- look, I'm telling you this clearly -- and we'll really come at you when you're walking every foot. Yeah, but we don't want you walking around in health, and we really don't want you to, because we'll fix health when we get there, but until then, you're gonna have really, really big problems, really serious problems. So you're going to say: "I work part-time what I want, I work full-time what I don't want." You say that in the name of this, "I want justice." That's AKP justice. There's justice in your name, and I don't know how you can swallow such injustice. There's one more item, the end-of-school clause, item number seven. We're going to talk about this again in the 7th article, so I'm going to be a little short. And on the end of colleges, you combine university hospitals with public hospitals, and then you say, "Wait a minute, I'm going to run this university hospital now as the Ministry of Health." You're not good at this, you're screwing up. I'll appoint the chief physician, and I'll do the bidding, and I'll do all the work, and the university hospital will do the work according to my system. We'll discuss the details later. Now, in this bill, there are some substances related to the fight against tobacco. You seem to be fighting tobacco all the time, but I'm looking at the truth, not the truth. Now, we agree on the damage to tobacco and the fight against tobacco products, and we've made a joint motion, and we do agree, but we have some concerns: we want to draw attention to problems between public servants and citizens. You're saying in this clause, in a situation that requires administrative fines, I mean, he threw out his cigarette, threw out his cigarette, soiled his butt, did this, soiled the air, made him pay 50 lira fines, and then you say, "What if he cleans it right away, we don't get a fine?" That's not our logic. Our logic is that it's not contaminated in any way. You've done a good job in the past, for God's sake, with the ban on smoking in these closed spaces, I've always thanked you, so I've thanked you from the bottom of my heart.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0336par0069	Who will protect the health of smokers?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0334par0070	You've brought the ban on smoking in closed spaces, and we really appreciate it, but soon after that, all the restaurants, all the cafeterias, all the coffeehouses, they're all smoking. Why don't you go to Ankara, take a walk in the evening, Sakarya, who doesn't smoke? So you bring in a law, you look like you're fighting it, and then we look at it as if the law has been broken, and it's been broken. No one's going to stop it. Look, I've come to something important. This is the clause in which your promises to family physicians are taken back. Now, I'm going to tell you how this practice of family medicine crackles. You have proved by this bill that you will not keep three more promises to the family physicians, and that you will not keep three more. What did you say? For this law, the family physicians will not stand guard. You said, "Now you give up, you bring them to the law, you put the family physicians on watch." You said: "Family physicians will work as they please, they will determine their own working methods." Now you say: "I am the minister, I am the state, they will work as I command. Three, you said that family medicine is the first step. It works according to the logic of the first step. Now you're telling the universities that you can build family health centers, and the more assistants you have, the more family health centers you can build in family medicine. Now, why are we saying this? You know, you don't keep your promises often, you take them back often, we're used to them, but there's an important detail here. You came to these physicians and said: "Friends, come be family physicians, be contractists, we will give you good money, we will not keep watch, we will give you the first step spirit." And you made promises, and these physicians trusted these words. That's why they're here, signed with you, into contracting personnel. When you get what you want, you take a step back with immoral behavior. You're telling people, brother, you have a contract, don't sign it again when it's over. So, where's he going to go? Let's get him back to his old place. How much money did he get in his old place? That's half of what you're getting now. You will send it and condemn it to hunger. So, dear friends, in this law, we have a lot to talk about later on. Family physicians can't stand guard in that state of mind, and we don't want them to stand guard in any way in this way, under these circumstances. You didn't plan well. If you could plan well, then they wouldn't have to keep watch. Now you're stuck with the bill, no matter where you grab it. Which really means the Ministry is in trouble now. It's a matter of mandatory service. Now you say to those who go into forced service: 'Come forward, but if you're under contract, I'll put you on another staff, and I'll hire you as a manager.' We'll say it again later on, but we want health to be governed by a social state, not by a market sense. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0337par0079	Thank you. Türkan Dağoğlu, İstanbul MP who now wants to speak on behalf of the AK PARTI Group.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0338par0082	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on behalf of the Council of Health and Associations of 301, the Court of Law and the Charter of Amendments to certain Law and Laws. I salute you, esteemed MPs of our High Council. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are required to restructure health and university-related health facilities within the Health Department and the Health Department programme, which has been implemented by the EC PARTI government in 2003 and aims to improve quality health care and improve service standards. The first leg of the restructuring process was carried out by the implementation of the Law Code No. 663, so that a significant step has been taken into effect to restructure the Ministry and its institutions, providing legal basis for increasing efficiency, efficiency and austerity measures in health care. In this way, the ministry and its organisations have been strengthened with planning, management and control capacity and a way to ensure continuity and sustainability for achievements with the Health Transformation Programme. On the other hand, a horizontal organisation has been increasingly abandoned at the centre where the introduction of relevant policies, auditing and service presentations, highlighting the importance of institutional expertise, where the central body is focused only on politics and system management, making decisions for executives in the rural community. In this process, a comprehensive law study has been carried out by the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission in an effort to eliminate some of the uncertainties faced on the legal basis of the implementation and to reassess the basic foundations for co-operation and co-operation of health facilities and universities. In addition to all the ministries concerned during the draft drafting of the bill, it is the most important indicator of our understanding of a multilateral democratic governance, which is involved in consultations with sectoral presidencys, confederations and professional unions. Dear lawmakers, I think one of the innovations of this bill should be read on the axis of restrictions on C-section surgery. C-section is an operation that can be performed in situations where birth is not possible by normal means, or where mothers and babies are at risk. These surgeries, which have saved the mother's and the baby's life in so many situations, also have significant risks if only by the mother's or the physician's request, without medical care, and have complications related to surgery and anesthesia. Therefore, it is vital to build the legal framework needed to protect both the mother and the child from vital risks. In accordance with the relevant clauses of the proposed law proposal, there is no restrictions on having the birth performed through C-section surgery if there is a medical obligation for the baby or the baby in the womb, and despite the necessary measures in this situation, the doctor will not be held responsible for the unwanted consequences that may occur in the mother or baby following the birth. However, when necessary medical care is not available, such a method of childbirth is prohibited at the request of a mother candidate or physician. In the future, we aim to continue our audits on the implementation of a legal implementation process with firm, earnest and consistentness. That's the way it is in the most advanced countries in the world. A different way of thinking today is not dominated by medicine. On the other hand, I think the establishment of a press and public relations consultant within the Ministry of Health will make a significant contribution to public relations and media appearance. It is very important that a ministry manages its own communication through a specialized staff, its perceptions of its activities are written and visual media, as well as its ability to properly feed it through social media and apply it to the right communication techniques in public relations. Thus, the transfer of this function, previously considered among the duties of the General Directorate of Health, to an expert advisor and staff, should be read as an important step in the media and public diplomacy of the Ministry of Health. Meanwhile, employment of product inspectors and product inspectors at Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Agency as an active institution in the consultation phases of our bill is targeted, and the basics of working and training, competition exams, training, competencies, tasks, responsibilities, assignments and transfers are set. I'd like to stress in particular that the product inspectors, who are acting in accordance with international control standards, who are conducting internal market audits, have an important function in the pharmaceutical and medical equipment sectors, with public safety and the protection of the environment. Another important innovation of our bill is that institutions and institutions belonging to the Ministry of Health and its institutions and universities can be used together in mutual cooperation. However, according to the address-based population registration system results, education and research services in cities with a total population of up to 750k can be given by only one of the Ministry of Health education and research hospitals or university health care and research centres, and they can co-operate with the Ministry and its related pennies for universities, medical license education and medicine training. Also, we're correcting a situation where I care a lot about, and I've been working in college six months ago, where experts value less than public hospitals at university clinics. In universities and research practice centres, additional payments for the employment of attending doctors will be brought closer to their counterparts at the Ministry of Health, thus overcoming financial problems in front of the employment of qualified researchers in the institutions. If he is one of the family physicians who are of the engine forces of the Change in Health Programme, who have an unrelenting importance in promoting health care -- I, indeed, say this is a reality -- it makes me very happy, both as a representative and as a physician -- to have such public satisfaction and such beautiful dialogue with family physicians.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0339par0094	Your students are listening to what you're saying, too, Hajji. Speak carefully! Have fear of God. Have fear of God.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0338par0095	They're getting additional rights in this bill. According to this, family physicians and family health staff are expected to receive a watch fee, except for those who benefit from increased wages at integrated health centres. The honorable MPs can never be employed after the doctor has been on guard duty. A rule called "The Doctor" does not exist in the history of medicine until now. We've all been doctors, we've all worked in hospitals, we've all been on watch, we've looked at our patients and treated them in the same health after they've been on guard duty. No physician treats his patient badly or misdiagnosed after a watch. Something like this doesn't fit into reality. The doctor's profession is incompatible. In his steps on public health protection and auditing, significant restrictions have been imposed on the international public for smoking in public areas during the period of the AK PARTI government, which has also garnered a great deal of approval and is seen as a success story by his efforts in this way. In this sense, giant steps have been taken to combat cancer and reduce respiratory disease. When I went to the United States during my studies, wondering what people were doing in front of buildings, in the rain, in the snow, in front of doors, in the snow, when I was watching them come out to smoke, it really seemed like a dream to me and to us, but now it's all a reality. Nothing in Turkey remains a dream anymore, and if it has to be fixed, we'll fix them anyway. And there's no way anyone can make that correction, and no one can. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As a result of these breakthroughs, serious reductions in smoking habits have been observed among our citizens. In other words, the phrases referred to in our culture as smoking like Turkish in the Western language have gradually lost its meaning and its value in physical life. Tobacco is described by many authorities, particularly the World Health Organization, as a first - ranking substance in causing death and disease. Our government will continue and continue its fight on this deadly substance, both to protect its citizens and to leave healthier tomorrows for future generations, and so will the truth. Maybe from time to time there are places that don't comply, and they're already being punished. We also refer to this issue that constitutes an important dimension of public health in the bill, and we propose to ban tobacco products manufacturers, importers and distributors and tobacco products from being used as names, brands, symbols, logos or other symbols that directly refer to them as products and products outside the tobacco products sector, the name, the brand, the logo, or the symbol. On the other hand, because of the two largest bottles of bongs that are produced or imported in Turkey and the exception of the base, we bring to each of them the rule of putting pictured and Turkish written warnings or messages in private frames, not less than 65 per cent of the area of these faces. Also, the specifics of these products in packages or labels of tobacco products imported or produced in Turkey, and the lack of information on health effects, dangers or emissions, are strictly prevented by this bill, particularly by young people and children, to encourage, encourage, or entice the product or to attract the product. Given that the age of starting smoking in Turkey has dropped to the elementary school level, such protective and preliminary measures will once again be shown how much need is needed. Thus, in our country, which is estimated to have used cigarettes through these protective measures, we aim to block out an important element in advertising, advertising and incentive campaigns, in terms of eliminating the visibleness of tobacco products or public incentives, and in this way give us a new momentum to our awareness activities. Dear lawmakers, with these amendments adopted by the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission, which we are negotiating with today, we will, above all, improve the quality of our citizens' lives and strengthen the influence of public services that have reached them. And that way, we'll be moving forward with a prerequisite approach, without passing on today's problems to tomorrow's generations. In the EC PARTI power, we add another to the steps we take to prevent all levels of persecution, strengthen public services, improve public health standards, and ensure that past problems are resolved without growing on the impact of snowballs. We, the AK PARTY, do not intend to burden anyone. We do what we do and we do what's best as an AK PARTY. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0340par0108	Thank you. Speaking for himself, Aytun Çıray, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0341par0111	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers say they're going to say they're going to say something about health, and they're going to keep saying it. Now, I think it's time, as the first year of life is over, to issue an inventory of the AKP Powers, a report of heavy damage. Now there are signs that the end of power is near. One sign, no doubt, is our process with Syria. They screwed up. Now, Mr. Prime Minister, he wants to share the opposition with the dirty stick policy, and he's trying to make sure that his charisma is drawn by a cold-blooded crisis management, but he won't sell it. Because this time the goods are bad, the road is bad, the intent is bad. Congressmans, you remember, Cüneyt Zapsu advised his subjects not to flush without taking advantage of the Prime Minister. Those who took this advice also gave the Prime Minister the necessary support. They sent billions of dollars out of a blank, net error pen, as Mr. Bayraktar said last time. So you turned Turkey into a circus of illusions by means of fear, offering the worst as a miracle. But, you know, every project has an end. You've come to the final stage of what's to be done to you. And when you do, your life in power will be over, because you will be exposed, and people will flush. Dear MPs, this process will be very painful for the Turkish nation. It's enough to look at the Prime Minister's mind map. Dear Regents, when I read the Prime Minister's statement the other day, my blood froze. He said that under my leadership, the Jewish community in Turkey is secure and protected. This answer is a scandal, dear lawmakers. In response, the Prime Minister has agreed that Turkey considers the property as its subjects and citizens as its subjects. Turns out our suspicions weren't delusions. These words can only be the product of a mind obsessed with faith and ethnism because the Prime Minister has not been given the task of protecting citizens. Citizens of the Republic of Turkey are already citizens of the Republic of Turkey. Our basic rights and freedoms are protected by the Constitution. We don't need anyone's bail. These words are an expression of arrogance blinded by truth. What's tragic here is that this archaic mentality doesn't work, but yes. It's being presented as a model of democracy to Turkey by the people. Congressmans, how different is the Prime Minister from the Syrian dictator? Who is the Prime Minister protecting Turkish citizens of Jewish origin from? Are our Jewish citizens under the threat of a certain group? Are those who wait for death in Silivri entering the part of those who have no protection? Now, these two sentences, given in Rio, have once again revealed the true nature of the Prime Minister's attempts to conceal. Look, valued lawmakers, you know, we have a Secretary of State who thinks he's a serious, deep strategist, but when Hillary Clinton says, "Go ahead, hit me." This Minister has a problem with the founders of the republic. Therefore, he misses that some of the fundamental lines in foreign policy are based on great experiences. Whereas our relationship with the Arab states has been created by a cold assessment of a great historical experience. Anyone who doesn't know that can't be the Secretary of Foreign Affairs of Turkey, but the minister of enemy affairs could be. [[Applause from CHP rows]] As for Mr. Prime Minister, who appointed him there, he was drawn, starved, unable to attack Ataturk (Ataturk) directly, so he struck back from the one-party period, and he said "CHP is suffering from foreign policy." God bless you, Mr. Prime Minister, he made me laugh. Now, look at your demeaning attitude, and look at the horizon of that founding soul that you accuse Hatay of being miserable to Turkey. Where are you, where is that founding spirit? The last person in this country to talk about weakness is Mr. Prime Minister. Didn't Syria take courage from the Blue Marmara weakness to do this?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0342par0119	Leave the Prime Minister alone and come to health.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0341par0120	Everyone knows about the project you've been implemented and co-chaired. The Middle East is renegotiated, except for torpedo dictators. That's why you exist. This project, which you always subcontract from the media's captivity, the inverting of facts, the restructuring of Turkey. Dear friends, I'm not saying this; journalists like Genghis Çaldar, who have been silent ever since. This is also your famous role in Syria. Don't you dare present yourself in the area as a model or anything. Now the world has seen your advanced democracy and learned what it is. So now you've done tricks where even our simple citizens wake up slowly. Look, we can not only roar, but we can also rain. To spread the propaganda, you set up the one minute tent theatre, and then you staged the Blue Marmara game, which cost lives. Elhak, you must not be denied your rights. You play very well, but every theater and every actor knows you can't always walk around in makeup. Tears of tears began to be noticed by the Turkish nation, whose tears were the tears of crocodiles, who you didn't want to erase, whose name you didn't want to mention. John Donne spoke of meeting the truth. I applied it to our culture. From the depths of democracy, I ask you, whose rafts are the first to be heard? Dear friends, the policies of a neoroidist Foreign Minister have crashed into the Eastern Mediterranean, along with the loss of two of our pilots. I told you you'd get blood. The forces that brought you here have prepared you for so long that even Hollywood writers will be surprised at the end of this. If we live, we'll see...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0343par0122	You're reading the wrong text!
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0341par0123	Don't teach me what to say.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0343par0124	That's the wrong text!
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0341par0125	If you were a little merciful, I might feel sorry for what you've been given, but I feel sorry for those who are martyrs because of you and only because of you. Dear MPs, didn't you know that Syria was supported by Russia and that if you faced Syria, how to deal with the direct and indirect consequences?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0343par0127	Mr. President, the lines are jammed, the lines!
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0341par0128	How did you send our young people there that you still can't explain what happened to them? You don't even care. Look at this! As long as the toilet doesn't flush, we're giving martyrs to complete your rematch plans.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0343par0129	The health of Syria and Syria are mixed up!
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0341par0130	After all the foreign politics that's happened, no one can write the truth in this country. If in one country, friends, truth has taken refuge between the lines, truth in a country, truth in a country, truth indirect narratives, then that country is a disaster, justice has been banished, law has fallen. Truths are traded for lies, heroes for scoundrels. It's a shame! If Syria had done to Israel what he had done to us, he would have known what would have happened to him. We also know that the Prime Minister's most violent attitude so far is to abandon Davos with the attitude of a bully. With his attitude, he was supposed to be the voice of conscience through the so-called Palestinians. But we were already the patrons of the oppressed, the voice of the consciences, with the War of Istlikal. In short, gentlemen, your watermelon has turned out to be a pumpkin, I can see that. The point is, when the Turkish nation understands all these facts, what damage report will we face? Where are the bills for the disasters we've been through? Who's gonna be in our house foreclosure? How will our dignity and pride be restored in this land our grandfathers left us with great sacrifices? I point out the danger that will swallow us all, and I invite the valued AKP lawmakers not to lay out the path of persecution. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0344par0134	Thank you. Vural Katuncu, Kütahya MP.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0345par0137	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the entire bill of the 301 rows, which predicts the amendments to the Ministry of Health and Associations' Agency and its duties. I hereby salute the High Council. In fact, listening to this conversation earlier, I thought this was going to be discussed on a matter of health ministry, and we were hoping that we could get a very valuable contribution from the opposition, and together at this point, we could make a law, but as you can see, we listened to a speech that didn't go into a word of health. I suppose there's nothing else to be done without a word of health. (AK PARTY) Because the healthcare programme in Turkey is being carefully monitored by the world and achievements are being delivered and are also stressed that there are lessons to be learned from it. As a result of the services, we are also happy to see our people's approval polls by independent companies have increased from 40 percent to 80 percent, with an increase of nearly twice as high since the 2003s. As we look at the material, as you know, under the law on the full-time work of university and health staff 5947, there have already been arrangements to open joint use between institutions and institutions of the Ministry of Health and the units of universities. These arrangements have been used jointly between some university hospitals and health ministry hospitals, called affiliation. Dear friends, medical schools are fundamentally educational, innovative, following developments, conducting medical research, and relatively advanced treatments. The Ministry of Health hospitals, however, have a service-based, more intense patient-based structure. These structures are combined with common use; they have significant benefits in terms of efficiency, economicism and quality. An example is that my constituency, Kütahya, has had a similar upgrade, so that medical faculty professors have started providing education and health care in the modern facilities of the Külebi State Hospital, which has been unable to build an effective health facility for years, and because they have not been able to establish the necessary infrastructure. So, our med school students had the opportunity for internships and practical lessons. With this bill, some glitches in the system will be resolved and the system will be more efficient. On the other hand, a innovation that comes with this bill, which I care about, is that professors and professors who are not in higher education staff at public or foundation universities are allowed to work in teaching and research hospitals under contract. Dear lawmakers, today, professor, the professor doesn't grow up easily. If a professor's knowledge, training, research activities are needed at a teaching hospital, can it be right to prevent him from contributing to education and education because he is not a staff member? With this amendment, our teachers will be contractable, sharing information with their students at educational institutions, doing education and activities that require them, while receiving a share of the return capital. One of the changes in the bill is that the C-section should only be done in the form of medical necessity. Unfortunately, there are other meanings here when you want to misunderstand. Here, the House does not determine medical care. In cases that will be determined and specified by doctors, this C-section will only then be carried out. Of course, when it's done in the right care, we know that the C-section is a life-saving operation. But we also know that the C-section is a very important surgical initiative, and with it are risks for both the mother and the baby. And we also know that, unfortunately, in recent times, our C-section rates have risen at a very high rate above the world's standards, and our mother candidates, our pregnancies, and our children have been faced with these surgical risks. With this arrangement right now, we would like to reduce the rate of C-section and prevent any further medical care. In this regard, the Ministry of Health is determined to protect our women's health. In addition, work on increasing midwife births, promoting maternity schools, media campaigns and the spread of painless births will, of course, be carried out together. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you know earlier, with a successful application, we said hello to Turkey without smoke. The law was also adopted to protect all segments of society and especially future generations from the harmful effects of smoking and tobacco products that others smoke. In this sense, no smoking is used in public and private areas of all buildings, except for housing for which they are available, and none of the tobacco products are used. Today, even in remote cities and rural areas, we see this being implemented. Now our people have adopted this law. At this point, we've burned the ships, and we've reached a point of no return. We are amazed at how these tobacco products have been used in recent years. The days of smoking in buses, airplanes, restaurants, public buildings and even hospitals are not far away. Now, when we go abroad, practices in countries that have not yet completed these developments appear to be highly backward practices to us. Now, with these changes to be made at this point, I'd like to stress that we're going to be closer to our goals in the desire to get to a full-blown Turkey by 2023. Gene, there's a very important issue in our bill about violence against healthcare. As you know, from time to time, we are faced with sad events that hurt the conscience of society. It's part of social violence. In everyday life, some people who beat up their children, hurt their children for reasons of water, create mortal fights, and when they enter the hospital, they have the potential to inflict violence on medical personnel. This problem exists all over the world. In England, there were 85,000 verbal or actual attacks on health workers within a year. "The 113 tip line, established by the Ministry of Health with the aim of zero tolerance for violence in health, allows measures and intervention to be taken at this point as soon as possible. With this bill, our sensitivity to this issue is once again revealed, and the requirement for personnel to request legal aid in the crimes committed against health care personnel during the presentation is removed. Dear lawmakers, it is possible that the bill and the family physicians will be included in the watch system and charge extracurricularly. In addition, some arrangements for the appointment and payment of university family physicians are included in this bill. Our number of physicians in our country is yet to be requested, and emergency treatments -- of course we'd like -- are the intervention and possession of emergency physicians in this regard. However, there is still much under the need for specialists. Hence, our family physicians, who have received basic training for emergency care in general medicine, with additional training and experience in family medicine, will contribute to a more effective health care. With new legal regulations and regulations, I would like to reiterate that our citizens can receive all kinds of health care services, that health reforms and public productivity will continue to increase over the last decade, and that we intend to achieve our goals in 2023. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish you the best of the bill, my respects.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0346par0153	Thank you. Now, you will be asked and answered for 20 minutes. Mr. Reminder, here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0347par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. The kidney patients there suffer greatly because there are no dialysis machines in the central district of Çankırı. Is it possible to purchase a dialysis machine in Central County as a ministry? Do you have any support for this as the Ministry? That's what I want to ask you. And since all the counties -- because some of them have crossed the main road -- there's a major road through Samsun's asphalt -- there's a serious lack of ambulances, and I'd appreciate it if you could look into the missing ones. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0348par0160	Thank you. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0349par0162	Thank you. Minister, how much was paid by Social Security Agency in 2011 for private hospitals and clinics in Eskişehir? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0350par0165	Thank you. Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0351par0167	Mr. Secretary, a patient called Yarkın Aficionado will not receive the drug that he should be given from this month, which is worth $200,000, because he has M.P.S. Type 2 disease. We also met with our Social Security President two or three weeks ago and promised that the problem would be resolved, but still no improvement has occurred, because it is known that the drug is being placed in a notice that should not be given to patients whose intelligence levels are below 60. Where is the effort to change this notice, and can you give our patients some good news? Thank you. Mr. Irony... Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: There was going to be a health complex in the Bursa Gürsu Samanlı, but because it was a first-class agricultural land here, it was the right decision, but it is said to be done in the Otosansit rear part of the health complex. Can you fill me in on that, please? And my second question is what kind of investments, what investments 2012 are, and which ones are being tendered and started, I'd appreciate it if you could tell me in 2012. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0352par0174	Thank you. Mr. Oran...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0353par0176	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you a question about pepper spray, which is indirectly related to health and health. Teaman Birben and Metin Lokumcu were killed by the use of pepper spray. In this regard, the Minister of Interior, Mr. Hawkahin, the Biber gas, has nothing to do with health care. In turn, health-related institutions have comments from the Turkish Toraks Association that pepper gas can cause asthma and can cause deaths, as well as the Turkish Medical Association. I'd like to know what your Ministry and personal opinion are on this matter. Also, would you consider bringing in an application, a criminal sanction, about the conditions of the use of pepper spray, about the quantity of its use, or over the scope of its purpose? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0352par0178	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0354par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I have two questions. The first is that the office physicians receive a contribution of 3 Turkish liras from the employee, the pharmacy, after their examination, at their workplaces. As your ministry, how do you find that even though you don't offer wages and contributions to workplace physicians, even though their wages are paid by the employer, the employee will receive 3 Turkish liras? Do you intend to take precautions on that? My second question is professional illness. The number of occupational diseases in Turkey appears to be almost nowhere near it compared to the European Union countries. A provision made by the Ministry of Labor as the Employment and Occupational Safety Act passes to fix this is intended only to capture parameters in Europe, giving occupational physicians the authority to diagnose occupational diseases. Is the Ministry working on this?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0355par0184	Thank you. Dear Light.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0356par0186	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as you know, your ministry's 500-bed Kütahya State Hospital for the 2010-2013 investment programme came back this year with a change of venue. What's the final point of this? Second: Again, construction of 520-bed hospitals on the centre campus of Dumlupınar University in Kütahya has been idle for a year and a half, even though the construction of 520-bed hospitals as a center of physical therapy and rehabilitation has been completed. How is this considered to be evaluated? It is also known that the construction of 150-beded State Hospitals, which will be replaced by the State Hospital, which was ruled to be destroyed by the Simav earthquake, is under way. Will it be possible to speed this up and get this construction started as soon as possible? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0357par0191	Thank you. Your Highness...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0358par0193	Thank you, Mr. President. Hospital services in our rapidly growing and growing province of Tekirdağ are not enough. In this sense, where are the constructions of the Mexican State Hospital, Circeçeköy State Hospital, and Tekirdağ Regional Hospital? When will the hospital be finished and opened? Will the growing population of our region be considered when the staff is given? In Tekirdağ, studies conducted by two major universities in Thrace have found that people living near the Ergene River have increased the rate of cancer disease, so especially in Chorus, they have highlighted the need to establish an emergency cancer research centre. Yet, why is there still no cancer research centre in Chorus? Do you have any work on the subject? What does the ministry expect to deal with in the coming process that will negatively affect public health and cause an increase in cancer cases? Last question: how many people are given home health care in the district of Tekirdağ? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0359par0198	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0360par0200	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you know that organ trafficking is prohibited in the Turkish Penal Code, but there are also reports in the local press that some government officials are being traded for organs, some of them are being sold for organs. I've also submitted a written question motion on this matter, but so far I haven't received an answer. Has there been an investigation, an administrative investigation, a criminal investigation? That's what I want to learn from you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0361par0203	Thank you. Mr. Kaleli...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0362par0205	Thank you. A AKP speaker said that during the AKP period, the buses were banned from smoking. However, it is my duty to remind you that there is a ban on smoking on buses making interstate transports through the Law to prevent the damages of Tobacco Foods, number 4207, which took place in 1996.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0361par0207	Thank you. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0363par0209	Thank you, Mr. President. Since universities do not have steps, they are unable to receive travel and tuition from a university, especially from undeveloped universities in Anatolia, when patients are referred to universities such as Ankara, İstanbul, İzmir. These patients have huge, significant losses, victims. Will you make the necessary attempt to adjust it, to correct it? Second: there are considerable setbacks in health care in tourist areas. Do you plan to support health care in places like Marmaris, Fethiye, Datça, Bodrum this year? Third, do you have any new studies specifically on fixing health care in prisons?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0364par0213	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0365par0215	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, let me finish what my friend just said. We know that in prisons, you go to the bathrooms by ten minutes and there's a line in the toilets, two people are in prisons, eight hours in shifts on the night wards. We've never heard of your ministry taking any precautions, even though these conditions in prisons are completely unhealthy. Mr. Secretary, these people's lives, their health, everything must be under the control of the state, under the control of the state, and you're not taking any precautions. Are you planning on taking precautions? How are you going to handle all this jam? Or will the riots continue? Thirteen more people have to die? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0366par0219	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0367par0221	Dear President, thank you. And I'd like to thank my congressman friends for their questions. An important part of the questions are questions that require technical details. So let me first say that I will present details to my friends in writing, especially in terms of investments, such as when will they start, and when will they end? Of course, I hope to answer as much as I can to other matters as possible. Our esteemed congressman, Mr. Öğüt, spoke of the need for dialysis in Çankırı Middle County. My fellow lawmakers, we offer dialysis services to about 40,000 of our citizens in Turkey. Turkey has become a country with a high number of dialysis patients. There's a reason for this: In many developed countries, citizens in need of dialysis have a much easier access to kidney transplants because the rate of kidney donors, organ donors, organ donors is too high for us. So in countries with the right resources and conditions, chronic kidney failures don't build up too much in dialysis because organ donors are sufficient in developed, rich countries that can do transplants. Turkey is also successfully transplanted in dozens of hospitals today. Social Security pays fully for the transplant, even in a private hospital, the citizen doesn't have to pay for it. But we don't have enough donors, so we have a lot of saved dialysis. And when dialysis is done regularly and done correctly, kidney patients survive for a long time. In Turkey today, dialysis is very smooth, so thank God these patients live a lot longer and have serious savings. The only way we're going to be able to eliminate this savings is by increasing organ donation, by raising sensitivity in this issue. Thankfully, in recent years, the number of donors has increased dramatically. There's hardly a new increase anymore, but we're having a little trouble getting rid of the needs of our patients who are piling up in the pool. In this sense, in the central district of Çankırı, we bring our dialysis patients to the center and serve there. The population of Çanırı is 12,000. We can't offer dialysis services in towns with such populations, because we're short on patients, and we're not qualified to provide that kind of service. Otherwise, we don't have a problem with the equipment or the conditions there. We can put them back if we need them. We'll see what's going on with the ambulance. All my dear friends know that in Turkey, we've raised our park to about five times as many as six times in terms of ambulance service. That's how many injured patients are being moved. If there is a need, we will also satisfy those needs in Çanrı. How much did the Social Security Agency pay for private hospitals in Eskişehir, our Ministry of Social Security? I don't have that information right now. I'll take this from the agency and pass it on to my dear friend. There was a decision made by the scientific board about a disease, about the benefit of the drug. This scientific board, when it came to the press, we reassembled it when it came to us, and the scientific board extended its view that it might be more useful for the drug to be given, or rather, in favor of the patients, and that's how they're going to be given to the patients. But I have to admire that scientists need to decide which medicine to give to a group of patients and when. We were able to find land many years later in the Milky Way, but it was decided by the court to stop the execution of our city hospital, the great campus, here. The court hasn't concluded yet. We're looking for another plot. There are a few alternatives. On the one hand, while waiting for the outcome of this court, if there is any opportunity for other plots, we will make this investment in Bursa, if necessary, in exchange. What investments have happened in 2012, what tenders have happened, or what has the work come to? And I will present this in writing to my dear congressman friend. I've been asked questions before about the pepper gas issue, and there were written motions. Of course, pepper spray is a gas that is ultimately used as a deterrent, and it affects you. It is also possible that he can do more harm to people with a number of diseases, especially lung disease, asthma, or heart disease, to people with severe allergies. As far as I know, there are warnings about this when it's being implemented. Of course, I'm not the Home Secretary, and I'm not as expert as the Home Office on how security is supposed to be, but there must be a measure of police action in social matters, in serious issues. It is really important to use pepper gas as proportionately as possible, to give advance warning to those who can do this damage.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0368par0232	Don't use it, Mr. Secretary, don't use it.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0367par0233	So don't use anything...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0368par0234	Tell him not to use it as Minister of Health. Why do you say that?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0367par0235	So what do we do? We can't leave our police there helpless in the face of a number of attacks, so it would be unfair.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0368par0236	Minister, they're squeezing water, so there are other solutions. Why do you insist on pepper spray?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0367par0237	Dear Congressman, the police are doing business for your safety and ours for the safety of all Turkish citizens, doing business to protect us. I mean, of course, it's not disproportionate, it's police training. Maybe there's some oddities being made, but you don't have to bring all the blame and find the pepper spray. Somehow the police will have to drive a car. Pepper spray is a gas used in the world. We've looked into this before, but like I said, it needs to be used in proportions, people who can be harmed need to be warned. The three-dollar turnout for people who have been examined by workplace physicians is not a part of the examination, it's a part of the participation for prescriptions. And there are some misunderstandings here. The Health Department doesn't take any of those turnouts. These are part of the insurance company's participation within the scope of insurance requirements, which I find appropriate to remind you. We really have a lot of work to do in Turkey in terms of occupational illness. I believe that this latest Law on Occupational Safety will give us a little more room in this regard. We have an apartment in our ministry that deals with this. We're also trying to strengthen it at the new Public Health Foundation. In fact, most occupational diseases in Turkey cannot be identified in time. We will continue to demonstrate our best efforts to develop this with the relevant Ministry of Social Security. We're going to build a new hospital in Kütahya. We've actually established a suitable location for this hospital, but there have been different orientations among our citizens in the city. We did a survey. As a result of this survey, if possible, the construction of this hospital was truly desired by the citizens where the gendarme would evacuate and even evacuate. So, we're trying to secure this plot. If we can't get that, then we'll do it again in the year we're in, where we're going to do it on the land that's now assigned to us from the forest, but if we can get the land that can come from the gendarme, we're thinking of doing it there.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0369par0241	Minister, we'll have trouble with transportation there. I think the old place is better.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0367par0242	Dear Congressman, 75% of the citizens have pointed to the question, "Would you like another location, even though it is not asked? Hopefully we'll find a suitable solution this year. We did not agree with our municipality in Simav, but hopefully, we are looking for a place soon, where we can soon build this hospital. If you'll excuse me, sir, I'll answer the other questions in writing.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0370par0245	You didn't tell me about the prison.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0371par0246	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 13th article. "Cemalett Simsek, Samsun MP who asked for the National Movement Party Group to speak on chapter one."
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0372par0252	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're discussing a health-related law at this hour of the night that some are yawning, some are delirious. In this environment, in an unhealthy environment, I would like to start by wishing for a healthy law. Mr. President, I stand before you today to present the views of the National Party of Action Group on the first chapter of the First chapter of the National Law Bill, with the State Department of Health 301 and the State of the Union's Offices, and with my compliments to you. Dear lawmakers, if God wills and the AKP does not bring new laws to us in the last minute logic of televisions, then the High Assembly will be on vacation today. As you can see, we're trying to legislate some of the laws on the agenda quickly, without understanding anything. However, we, the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission, agreed a few months ago and immediately, to discuss the Common Business Relations Bill. What's very important is that this bill, which deals with a large number of employees who regulate industrial relations in our country, is still unclear and is not on our agenda. And by the time Congress is on vacation -- as it turns out, we're already going in today -- it's not going on the agenda of Congress. However, we are now discussing the Constitutional Charter for Amendments to the Government of the State of Health, which was published in the Official Gazette on 2/11/2011. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, when was this decree issued? 02/02/2011. How long has it been? A little over a year. As you all know, the Law on Violence in Sports has been renegotiated within six months. There is a bill brought in quickly, immediately, with the logic of the law now; unfortunately, without enough debate in the commissions and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and especially without the opinion of the opposition, the Commission and the Government are here. We are working on the motions of the opposition, regardless of the motions of the government. Dear MPs, I especially would like to address Mr. Prime Minister and his ruling group here: you have no right to waste the Parliament's overtime and energy by bringing drafts that will need to change again in such a short period of six months or a year. Turkey has very important issues, and Parliament has no time to waste. I'm personally confident that the decree of this law will require a change in a very short period of time, and the House will be again occupied with the same agenda. Look, as a health worker before I retired, and as an executive during a certain period of time, I'm afraid we haven't been able to reach the speed of regulations, regulations, and regulations that have come under the Health Transformation Programme. The others came until they understood what an incoming regulation or directive was and often changed before they had the opportunity to follow it. So what I'm saying is that my transformation in health with this understanding is that it's going to go on forever and it's like there's no conclusion. Dear lawmakers, the Health Transformation Programme has been running in our country for ten years, but the system is still inconsistencies. Paramedics, especially physicians with motor power, are nervous. Paramedics aren't happy. They are insecure in the order of the hierarchy and in the way they pay. Health workers, unfortunately, can't even do a proper program about their future, because their fees don't reflect on their variables and rights. They can't exactly give up their jobs because they're struggling with a false wrong performance program. Because of this working arrangement, they are unable to provide themselves with a future or a proper holiday program. They don't know how much they can afford if they buy a house, because when they get permission, they get a cut of the money, and if they get a transfer, they don't know how much money they're going to get where they're going. So their wages are dropping, and because they have installments, they continue to work tirelessly, and unfortunately they avoid vacationing. Also, workers who have lost their rights due to the construction of the Ministry of Health and whose salary has been reduced are restless. Right now, employees at all health department agencies are very nervous about whether or not they can be replaced and whether or not they can go backwards in their rights. In short, everyone is confused from his doctor to his nurse, from his handler to his assistant staff. There's not a day goes by where there's no complaints. We understand that some of the complaints that have come to us are that I want to work in the department or something like that because the return capital is better because I want to be transferred to the hospital because there are more shares being distributed than return capital. Some say, "I was an engineer, I was an engineer, I was a doctor, and now I've been appointed an investigator, I've lost my rights." Dear lawmakers, this is now the return programme for health care, which office means what it means, which school graduates' place and position in the hierarchy, and must be organized immediately. Above all, it is necessary to be able to guide your life by knowing who will receive about how much it costs. At this rate, we will not be able to obtain sufficient efficiency from doctors or health workers who are confused by the system. The transformation of this health form is now in complete systemic failure. The safety of employees is at stake. They can't get the same job because of problems with the system, even though they've performed the same performance. Dear lawmakers, there must be a performance system in health, but this must be about 25 percent of the health worker's income, and 75 per cent should be reflected in the rights of equity. Today's performance system, which is complex and unfair, should be simplified so that the real employee can have more return capital. With today's rotating capital system, there's a lot of people who have little access to it, even if they don't know the clinic, they get more spinning capital, and that's causing a lot of trouble between doctors. The system must undergo a serious revision immediately. Health workers must now be saved from this mess, and a system based on merit must be established. This bag also has been brought in with a proposal of law, which has been added to Nurse's Code 6283, and has been granted a GPA degree as of the date of the application of this clause, and has been registered as a nurse for three years, documenting it as a registered nurse at the oral and dental clinics, and demanding it within three months of the application of this clause. So it turns out that these midwives worked illegally as nurses before this law was enforced. It is also known that other midwifes, paramedics, emergency medical technicians, other than nurses, serve as nurses in hospitals. So it turns out that statistically, the hospital employee would do nothing but aim to increase the rate of nurses. We must aim to adapt to EU standards by increasing our number of nurses. These professional groups are practically nurses in hospitals. In addition, the amendment to this decree and the amendment to this decree aims to remove some of the staff and continue to become staffed at the expense of a number of people being victims. It's clear that you've been working as a recruiter, without a special staff to certain authorities, and by assigning non-privileged appointments to those who are close to power, you haven't been able to comply with the decisions you've been given. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear lawmakers, if by bringing in all these laws, you mean to ensure that you become a staff in public institutions and institutions and consolidate your power, then let's give up this love. Together, he says, let's work on the development, progress of this country, and reach the level of complex civilizations, all of you, with respect. Besides, tomorrow is Berat Kandili. I congratulate you all on Berat Kandili. I wish you good fortune. I think Congress is going on vacation, and I wish everyone a happy holiday.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0373par0271	Thank you, Lord. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Candan Üşeker, Tekirdağ MP.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0374par0274	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I congratulate everyone on Berat Kandili. I wish you all the best. To our country, to our country, to our nation. I have made a promise on Bill 301. I salute you all. We've had a very difficult year in parliament in terms of procedure; irregularity has been a procedure, a rule of law. This bill follows the end of the General Assembly talks in the morning...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0375par0277	We're used to it!
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0374par0278	... on a day when we didn't have a chance to read the reviews on the commission, he was brought in from night to morning. As you know in Code 663, on November 2, 2011, the department of the Ministry of Health was removed in the morning with a series of decrees issued by the government in accordance with a number of laws that were not even necessary to meet under the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, seven months later, you're trying to complete the job you left unfinished with the decree of the law you brought to the Commission. If he was so lacking in law enforcement, why are you in such a hurry to issue 11 decrees in one night? Look, from the beginning of the legislature, the legislature's legislature's mandate has been passed in a law order that no one knows except some bureaucrats and some circles know about, without being discussed or discussed, without being vetted enough by relevant institutions, without anyone knowing the opinion of NGOs. As in other places, for example, the laws of the Ministry of Justice have been put into order for our Full Day Law, and many such soups, bags of decrees, and the duties of the Assembly have been bypassed. If the public had really wanted to make arrangements for the solution, there would have been arrangements that would not be needed to reconsider, that would have been discussed with relevant parties, that would have agreed on everyone, that would have been determined with possible errors. This, of course, was supposed to happen, but after the end of the executive order on 3 November 2011, the AKP Group, as you know, wanted to go to the Civil Charter change and silence the opposition MPs. A draft draft of the commission's work is being organised with the directive instead of the Interior Charter. What are you trying to do with the raiding commission meetings, where parliamentary reporters are allowed to monitor commission meetings, and the bill referred to the commissions is allowed to negotiate without delay for 24 hours? You're smuggling stuff from a fire? What are you trying to cover up? Of course, we don't need law, democracy, or opposition now that there's an advanced democracy in our country. Mr. Secretary has expressed to our criticism that the bill does not have much to object to because it contains technical materials. You reject the questions we expect, let alone the answers, even the issues we contribute to as part of the AKP Group, with a collective will. You're not kicking us into the Commission meetings, you're trying to silence us. And now the Minister tells us what to object to, what not to object to. What you do is divide people's will. What you're doing, Council, is bypassing the people's will. What you do is you despise people's will, you don't care. As you know, the Change in Health Programme was announced in 2003, it was implemented in 2004, and its purpose was not to take any positive steps, despite the fact that it was well received by all of us, despite the fact that there was an effective, efficient, rightfully organised health care, financing and presentation of health services. Although the AKP government said that one of the main objectives of the Change in Health Programme was participation, its changes were made and imposed, just as they are in every field today, without enough sightings, without asking NGOs, without value for their views. Participants, pluralism, I don't think it's in your nature, in your practices, in your thoughts. Three social security institutions, the Retirement Chest, BUG-KUR and the SEC, were merged under the roof of General Health Insurance. It's not about strength, it's about privatisation. Although all citizens have been brought up on charges of subsidizing social security umbrellas, many citizens have not received sufficient health care, despite their premiums. In order to obtain health care, he had to pay additional payments under the name of the attendance fee, or turn to private health insurance. Thus, the first step has been taken towards privatisation of health and creating a customer mass of private insurance. Then we moved on to the family medicine system. In family medicine, the system was to replace the health care system with private family medicine, and the goal was to privatise primary health care, and it was intended to be devoid of being an institution that produces health care through the restructuring of the Ministry of Health and to become a unit responsible for determining and co-ordinating general health policies, monitoring and regulation of the free health market. In this way, health care has been asked to avoid being offered as a public service. As all these changes have not helped improve the overall level of health care, they have led to privatisation of health care, commercialisation, medical schools becoming uneducated, unable to study, unsecured, contracted flexible work and unfortunately increasing violence to health workers, the loss of working peace. It's a step-by-step. It's a step-by-step. Yes, the relevant clause of the bill aims to turn medical schools into health services in the name of joint use, cooperation; second, third, public health services run under the name of state-level hospitals and the administration of these units under the name of the Chief Medical Officer, who will be appointed to the Ministry. With this bill, academic and administrative autonomy was lost in medical schools. The fact that employment in public hospitals units will be contractual and that the work and basis of these personnel will only be determined by the Ministry is the biggest blow to employees. It is incompatible with the social state's understanding that the institutions of the social state tasked with meeting the basic rights of a citizen, such as education and health, have been transformed into a profitable institution. In addition to the bill, the state official physicians under obligation to accept it under contract will be able to be assigned to central services of the Ministry; in the bill, the decision of professors and professors and professors who are not in the staffs and positions of the RSR can be made by the Ministry of Health to work in educational and research hospitals under contract; the Full-Day Law will provide contract service from teachers who leave the university with the full-time law, and will unfortunately pave the way for a flexible, unsecured working life of such workers. The bill calls for all health workers to come. Dear lawmakers have stated that while our country is not on the agenda, the very important issues, the bills, the proposals are not being taken down to the General Assembly in line, the Prime Minister is opposed to the C-section on May 25th and the abortion is murder. A full month after that, the C-section issue presented as an offer to the Commission is being brought to the General Assembly before parliament closes. This is a clear intervention in the free will of politicians, science, physicians, people. If our goal is to prevent the C-section when there's really no medical necessity, then I'm against the C-section. That is with the monitoring, information, encouragement, encouragement, the use of the midwife's profession in accordance with its purpose, and the support of physicians in this regard. We as the Republican People's Party state that health services are designed and served as public service, that our citizens are considered not clients but patients, that everyone is entitled to equal, qualified, free, available health care, and that it is necessary to have a health care system, not first to win, but to do harm at every health institution. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0376par0294	Thank you. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP who asked for a personal word on the episode.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0377par0297	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I'm not a physician, but I'll only speak as someone who's taken care of by hospitals. For one thing, this House has completed a year. I'm just saying, guys, in a year's time, we've always tried to help the Republican People's Party Group and the opposition. You have to be patient with us. You'll do it, and we'll have to tell you what we know. Everyone has to learn for the past year, all of us have to learn for the past year. We only have one goal: to help this country, to help people. If you're going to endure our criticism, you're the power. You go ahead, we'll endure your criticism if you want. Dear lawmakers, I will not talk about health staff, I will speak only as a person who has received services regarding the services bought, as well as cleaning staff, security guards, computer technicians and staff serving food. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid they're being tendered. If the staff who work in hospitals from companies who receive the tender doesn't know anything about health care, our patients are very uncomfortable if they don't have some sort of pedagogic knowledge. They're bringing in people who don't have any interest in hiring cheap guys who buy services because I'm willing to pay less. This must be a wound for hospitals. I'll give you an example. Maybe you were mad at us then. There was a nursery in Malatiah. Mr. Congressman will know. An unrelated staff, an ignorant staff, was taken that day. They beat the children, we humiliated Turkey, we were ashamed everywhere, but know that we did Turkey a favor. After that, there were day care providers, nurses, and pedagogic students at all day care centres in Turkey. People who serve in all the dorms in Turkey after that, waiters, caterers, now have gloves. They're the least high school graduates, and they've all been trained. We actually did Turkey a favor. One plague has opened the way for the day-care centres in all Turkey, but the same problem continues in these hospitals. Security guards. They don't have a stick, they don't understand patient psychology, they don't understand patient psychology, they don't understand patient psychology, they hit me, the whistle I hit, they don't... they insult the patient in the most violent way. For him, my advice: In order to buy services in hospitals, there must be a condition: People who will be assigned to a service company in the hospital, whether they are a cleaner or a security guard, people who serve food, people who are taken from the outside, must be subject to a certain education once in a while. Unfortunately, Mr. Secretary, the people you bought outside services at the I.T. Center are in charge. I don't want an employee of a company outside the I.T. Center accessing my patient information. I want to find someone who, when he's a public employee, I want to go get him. They're sending him tomorrow. If he makes one mistake, they'll take the other. In particular, at the information centers or at the doctor's office, the IT services enter all kinds of information at the doctor's side. As far as I know, there used to be an assistant with doctors. I bought information processing services... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing. You don't. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0378par0309	Thank you. The question-answer process will take 15 minutes. Mr. Türeli... no. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0379par0313	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, as you well know in Turkey, there are 15,000 dentists' offices. In these clinics, our fellow dentists look forward to buying services. We've come a long way from our Labour Minister's positive work with you recently, but our citizens, our patients, and our dentists both have an expectation of dating. There are two problems: Both patients will open this one. They do not go to the clinics, they put themselves on hold, and the clinics are now being thrown out. If you make a date, you will please all dentists. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0380par0316	Thank you. Your Honor...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0381par0318	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in the transactions, the markets said that legal measures were being taken regarding the sale of plants that had been desiccated by the name of fucking pharmaceuticals, but we see that it is still being sold. What is the state of the law on plants that are very harmful and can also lead to death? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0382par0321	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0383par0323	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, as far as occupational disease hospitals know, there are two in Turkey, and there are special efforts to avoid reporting professional illness in these occupational hospitals in order not to diagnose occupational illness. I know that none of the workers we sent from the textile workers to the occupational disease hospital were reported professionally. Likewise, the occupational illness of at least 10-15 workers who had herniated due to heavy working conditions in ceramic factories has not been recognized. Do you plan to bring a different arrangement on these matters? So you're thinking of increasing occupational disease hospitals? Other than that, Mr. Secretary, it's quarter to four now, we've been working for hours. The working conditions here don't hurt people...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0384par0327	Thank you. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0385par0329	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are two separate offices for prisoners and prisoners at the State Hospital in Silivri. One of them is really not Turkish, and one of them is very advanced. Why were these two different rooms made different? Is this discrimination because some valuable prisoners or prisoners are coming? Second: Have you ever performed surgery on a prisoner complex in Silivri? Have there been any surgeries or surgical procedures where you and the Minister of Justice have been referred to as this hospital, and how many patients are there today? Third, you know there are about 10,000 prisoners there.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0386par0334	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0387par0336	Thank you, Mr. President. I just asked the Minister a question about the prisons. How are you going to improve health conditions in prisons where you're given water for two hours a day and there's a line in the toilets? Do you have any research on this, Mr. Secretary? That's what I want to ask you in particular. And to put it very briefly, there are staff from privatized institutions sent to different ministries. Is education taken into consideration? So college graduates get to clean up? Is our government going to be thorough about this? I'd like to ask you about these matters. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0388par0340	Thank you. Mr. Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0389par0342	Mr. President, I'm going to ask you a few things honestly that I don't understand. Number one: there is no rule of law in these laws distributed to us. It is said that the number of articles of this law have been changed. It'll be very comfortable if the presidency distributes the old law in these texts that have been distributed to us. Second: I came to this House, international agreements for three months, these are what we've been dealing with. If we're going to be working this late at night, could this party, which has been in the government for ten years, have done it in a much better, more rational time, in a much better debate? And from the statements of the Prime Minister and the Minister, I've come to understand that, because of the new health management, especially the monetary size of health, there's a lot of cesarians, something. I wonder, as a patient, how badly I've had antibiotics, what surgeries I've had, is there any study of that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0390par0347	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0391par0349	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the global budget agreement with the pharmaceutical industry has ended this year, and new talks should have begun and should be moving even further. Are these interviews being held? The practice of a public institution discount, which has been described as an obligation to the system, although the pharmacists had nothing to do with it before, is now available in one hand, along with the transfer of the green card to the Social Security Agency. You have made statements that your government and your person will be removed from the backs of pharmacies when this happens. Are you going to consider this as the main agenda in your talks this year? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0392par0353	Thank you. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0393par0355	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, just now, the doctors of Mr. Türkan Dağoğlu will keep watch until morning, and then they will work without anything, and they won't make any mistakes. We've done it for years, and it's such a good thing. I wonder if you really agree with him. And again, Mr. President, you have nothing to say in the field of health during your speech. That's it, 20 minutes after we talked, then ten minutes, ten minutes... and I couldn't understand how the other MPs applauded. I'd appreciate it if someone could tell me that. I'd like to express that I don't approve of such an approach and condemn it.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0394par0358	Thank you. Mr. Oran...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0395par0360	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you a question about health workers who work as subcontractors in Istanbul, İstanbul Medical School, Çapa and Gererpaşa. They were laid off at New Year's, and they got a refund in court, but they still haven't been returned to work. I'd like your opinion on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0394par0362	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0396par0364	Mr. President, thank you. And thank you to my dear friends. 15,000 dentists have been interviewing the Social Security Institution, or rather, all of the citizens who are insured, between our Social Security Agency and the sector for a long time, along with the rooms that represent dentists as corporate personalities. In fact, I also support the admission of this service from the practice of free dentists. I've always tried to be an interface. That's a long way to go. I know the room's meetings with our esteemed Minister and his bureaucrats. Of course, I can't date, but I'm hoping that this will happen within the year. It will be a blessing for both dentists and citizens. We're having a serious struggle with the fact that some plants are actually being sold or used against their will, especially when they're being sold to all kinds of problems like medicines. We've made new laws about it, we've written regulations, and we're seriously following them as the Ministry of Health. We also applied sanctions on the most common ones. You must have followed him. Among the sanctions, we have a number of applications such as the banning of ads from the RTÜK in terms of ads, providing them with notifications to the Competition Council, applying to prosecutors to ensure that they are followed by prosecutors in order to harm human health. We've done such practices as being collected from the market, even located where it was manufactured, and banned there. But there's one more important thing here. It's really a big deal for society and our media. I mean, we're struggling, but in the end, this fight needs to be shouldered, supported. In many countries around the world, especially through the Internet, the countries suffer a great deal. In this regard, they're not following us right now, but let's at least send a message through the transcripts. And our media has to be sensitive about that, so let's not always pursue it. The media should be sensitive to this. We also warn our citizens. Never take and use these plants without the advice of their doctors. I want to express their sacrifices, as far as professional hospitals and friends who work there. Like our esteemed congressman's sensibility, our friends there have come to us many times, and we've done common work. They're very sincere about the widespread diagnosis of occupational illness throughout the country. In fact, it is diagnosed with occupational illness, and the Social Security Agency defines professional relations according to its own legislation. We have a lot of work to do about it. I agree with you 100%.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0397par0369	We need to expand, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0396par0370	Yeah, yeah. I agree with you 100%. Even though we've done good in health, what we're doing isn't enough, we have work to do. Your warning is most appropriate. We've been working for hours, that's right, we're tired. Hopefully, these warnings will allow us to use a little more time together in an economic way when we make this law in the hours after that. That's all I can say.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0398par0372	The sacrifice is on us again.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0396par0373	All of us. We're doing the same thing, Mr. Congressman. Is there anyone here who doesn't make sacrifices? We're sitting here, and thanks to you, you're trying to contribute. I don't know if there's a different area of examination in Silivri, but I'll have it examined for this warning. We could never tolerate something like this. We visited the public hospital in Silivri, the health care there, with our Minister of Metris. We've built a really good system in terms of health. You know, there's also a state hospital in Silivri, which is a prison, which is a detention facility... what do we call it?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0398par0375	Sick Bay...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0396par0376	No, we also built a hospital outside the infirmary, but you can appreciate that in small hospitals such as these, surgical operations, major surgery, shouldn't be done, shouldn't be done. We have hospitals very close to there, we have hospitals. We've really got it all wired up, too. When necessary, we serve there by taking prisoners or prisoners there. How many patients are there today? Let us present them to you in writing. We really need to take the necessary measures quickly against the difficult conditions in prisons. I also know that our Minister of Justice, our Ministry, has been working very hard on this matter. I mean, there's been a law here recently, and he's been very critical of the tenders, especially the invitations. One of the aims of this is to make a fast prison. So it's true, when a tender is being made, you have to give all parties a transparent right here, and they need to be clear about going to trial and all that, but as an investor minister, I know how long it takes them to process. There's one thing we know very well, our Minister of Justice is making a serious effort to make new prisons happen as soon as possible by shortening the processes. Hopefully that'll be done soon. Of course, there's also the fact that punishment is not done solely to punish people, it's meant to deter them. Otherwise, you can't provide safety and security in the community. I don't know anyone from the privatisation, I don't know if there's a cleaner, if I have that kind of hearing, please let us know, we can't let that happen. ▪ Wrong antibiotics, wrong surgeries can harm our human beings? We've got some work on that. We'll share that information with our esteemed congressman. Talks on the Global Budget Agreement... start with a global budget meeting of public employees, and we'll begin with these meetings with the shareholders within the next week, hopefully. It's time, you're right. Doctors stand watch, they get tired, of course, I mean, that's true, but doctors in this country have had bad luck, and there have been people in this country who have opposed the number of doctors for years. Fortunately, their voice is now a little hoarse. As the number of doctors increases, I hope our doctors will be less burdened on this matter. If there are those who need to be extradited as a result of a trial in Çapa, Surgerypaşa, then of course the university must be sensitive about this issue, which is not directly relevant to our government. I'd like to thank our esteemed deputies.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0399par0385	Thank you. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in chapter one to your separate votes after I've processed the motions on that clause, if there is any...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0400par0388	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0399par0389	Here you go. Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement. Mr. Secretary, I visited the infirmary in Silivri Prison, and the small hospital that was built there, and the Silivri State Hospital. In the Silivri infirmary -- I looked inside the infirmary -- there's not even a monitor, there's no defibrillator, there's an emergency response equipment missing. We've written that in our report, and we can give it to you if you'd like. As for the hospital, it's a hospital that shouldn't be, but unfortunately, it's filled with specialists, no sleeper unit, no O.R. The important thing is the Silivri State Hospital. There I was ashamed of my humanity and my medicine. When you go down to the basement, the basement, there's a ward called the prison ward. There were four beds placed in a tiny place, one with appendicitis, and the patient who was infected was lying in the same place. The sheets were covered in blood, and you'd be ashamed to place the prisoner, let alone the human, even other creatures. We can give you more information about that later if you'd like, but it has to be handled. Thank you. Thank you. There are three motions on article 1, which I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first additional clause, mentioned in Article 1 of the First Amendment bill, shall be removed from the draft text of the First Amendment of the First Amendment under the Law, with the provisions of the State of the State of the Union and the State of the Union. Spiritar Demirel Ali Self-Cemaletin Lightning Congressmans, the next two motions I'm going to make are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Ministry of Health, 301 rows in question, and the Court of Law on the Organizations and Tasks of the Companies, and the Charter of the Law and Law shall make amendments to the provisions of some laws and laws. I propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Levent Tüzel Erol Dora Fair Kurt Nazmi Gür Dr. "Glory to the Heart" "Solomon Çelebi" Kadir Gökmen Reminder Aytun Çiray Free Special Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0401par0418	We disagree, my dear President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0399par0419	Nurettin Demir, MP of the Muğla, is asking for a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0402par0421	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before we begin, I congratulate your candle, and I especially congratulate our Athletics National Team on its achievements, especially the success of our female athletes, the medals. I have made a pledge on the first article of the existing bag of 301 rows. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers bring no good to anyone, no problems solved, no sadness, no good to them, no good to them, no good to them, no good to them, no good to them, no good to them, no good to them. In short, there are worse things in the bag than there are in the law. We said, "It's not the thief's fault, it's the landlord's fault." So as host, is the Ministry of Health, the health system not at fault? I especially think the Health Department and the healthcare system should stick the needle in themselves first. C-section is a very safe form of operation, a form of birth. This book, published in 2011 by Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, says that the C-section is a very safe and especially safe birth method if planned. So today, we see that the post-technology C-section is safer than the tonsil surgery, but the Minister and the Prime Minister and the other speakers who came up here said that the C-section was a heavy operation, that it was dangerous for women. I'm an obstetrician, so I've had about 20,000 births, folks. About 16,000 of these are natural births. If you can't have a healthy birth, you don't have to insist on a normal birth, because the biggest complications occur in the forceps or in the inconsequential births. I'll admit that C-section rates are increasing in Turkey, but neither the physician nor the C-section itself is guilty here. I think there's a great benefit for the system to question itself, especially if the rate of 21 percent in 2003 is up to 48 per cent in 2011. So, the Change in Health Program boasts that it's in literature, Mr. Secretary, the transformation in health. I believe it's going to be the world's literature from now on. This is the first time since Hippocratic, the founder of scientific medicine, and in the world's parliaments, we've seen the C-section spoken like this, and the introductions are determined by law. We need to get rid of it soon, even withdraw it. When we look at the introductions of this law, I think the Minister has always avoided the obstetrics internship, so we can probably conclude that he's been torpedoed, as well as the President of the Commission. In these cases, normal births should be preferred in heart disease, but they're listed here as C-sections, so it's interesting that these concerns that the midwives have been reading here for years have been called legal reasons. Therefore, the patient's psychology and social status have not been considered. We have a situation called vaginismus. In particular, the patient locks his feet and doesn't allow a C-section, not a button, not even an examination. America, and therefore our... I don't think this particular cesarean issue is the work of politics, and I recommend that this law be withdrawn. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0403par0434	Thank you. I'm reading the reason for the other motion in the same context: The first clause in the draft law can be adopted after the use of the law on women's issues and forms of gender, when the necessary social debate has been exhausted and discussed with relevant social parties. It must be removed from the text of the law, which is the embodiment of the government's recent rule of control and organisation of everything. I will submit the same motions to your votes.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0404par0441	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0403par0442	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Oran, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Trust, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Horseman, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Yüpeer, Mr. Coach, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Baydar, Mr. Little, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Bulut. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first additional clause, mentioned in Article 1 of the First Amendment bill, shall be removed from the draft text of the First Amendment of the First Amendment under the Law, with the provisions of the State of the State of the Union and the State of the Union. Rusar Demirel (Eskişehir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0405par0460	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0403par0461	Any words on the motion, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0406par0462	Motive.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0403par0463	I'm reading the reason: C-section is an operation in which birth is not possible by normal means, or is at risk for the mother or the baby. The physician begins the mission by swearing to the profession that he will abide by the rules of medical deontology. In practice, it is performed with a birthing C-section if there is a medical obligation for a baby in the womb or in the womb. The proposal aims to remove the status of the declaration of "demandment of property" from the draft text, which has already been written in the draft text of the C-section application criteria under the existing rules of medical ethics and deontology. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 2 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 2 of the Constitutional Law Bill to Amendments to certain Laws and Laws under the provisions of the State of the Union and its Member States. With all due respect. The Moonbeater Raises From the Heart, Süleyman Çelebi Kadir Gökmen Reminder Aytun Çiray Free Special Article 2- 4/1/1961, and the first sentence of Article 5 of the First Amendment on Returning Capital (Rehabilitation) to the Institutes of Health and Health (Security) was added to the first sentence of the first sentence of Article 2 of the Law, "the deputy health director of public health, who is an expert on Public Health or Family Medicine." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0407par0482	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0403par0483	Kadir Gökmen Öğüt, İstanbul MP who wants to speak on the proposal.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0408par0485	Mr. President, I'm here to talk to you about Article 2 of the Law Bill 301. You're still trying to fix the health organisation that's been brought to an end with the laws under the law and the unstitched aspects of their policies, and you don't even bother to negotiate with the Health Commission. The information made by the Minister and the President of the Commission later led to joint motions, even in a number of articles. I believe that if he had come to the Commission, we would have given common suggestions in more articles, and we wouldn't have worked until this time of night, we wouldn't have had to work hard, we could have passed the Pharmaceutical Act from the Commission, and we could have passed this law by hand. Dear lawmakers are becoming increasingly therapeutic physicians in our health care system. The number of drug-boxes has reached an incredible level. The combination of the Link-Kurk, USSR and Retirement Chest in Health is a very positive event, but the personnel system is changed to the contracted personnel system and the subcontractorization system. Subcontractorization is most commonly used in health. Again, the performance system has put a great deal of pressure on healthcare workers, causing overwork inefficientness and inadequacy, and the health of health workers has deteriorated. I've given it as an example before, and if there's a performance at the courthouses, I think most of the files are stored in the courthouses in three months, I think they'll be finished in six months. My dear friends, there are 22,000 dentists in Turkey. About 15 to 16,000 of these 22,000 dentists have a practice. My friend, a dentist with 15 to 16,000 practice, is expected to buy services from the government, the public. This expectation has not been fulfilled until this year, I'm afraid. The office of 16,000 dentists who were considered property of the public because they couldn't be carried out, unfortunately, could not serve the patients. At this time, both our Minister of Labor and our Minister of Health's positive approaches have been made, but it's a slow process. By the time this service is done, hopefully everyone will have seen what a positive thing we're working on when it comes to life. A healthy society is one of the essential conditions of the social state and one of the basic human rights beyond that. Unfortunately, the health system, which has not been able to receive the budget for years, has been altered many times, but has not been successful at a satisfactory level. At the point where we're here today, we're facing the same problem again. The AKP government boasts of its health practices. What are they saying? Yes, hospitals are no longer holding patients who can't pay the bill as hostages, the bond is signed, and then the bailiffs come to the house. They brought a performance system, and we shut down the offices. They said. They turned hospitals into clinics. They sacrificed human health to the philosophy of so much money, so much surgery, so much meatloaf logic. What happened? There were surgeries with blindness, newborns who died one after the other, and many others. Thus, physicians who were left focused on the performance system were forced to leave their primary work on the sidelines. We are fully opposed to performance, but we want performance practice to cost up to 30 percent. We also want all revenues, including performance, to be included in the rights of equity. The AKP's Transmutation Project in Health has opened up the relationship between the doctor and the patient. To date, the Ministry of Health has unfortunately blamed physicians for the failure to meet the demands and all other negatives that were expected to receive free medical examinations at any time. As a result, violence to the physician and violence to the health workers became very high. With the AKP, an army of private hospitals was formed. Today, many state hospitals lack vital clinics and equipment, while citizens have been forced to move to private hospitals for identification and treatment. A number of private hospitals have been opened and resources have been transferred to these secondary hospitals under the plan by encouraging private health care sectors. The last time you saw him, maybe you saw him last week, he made a special road, private road and viaduct to a hospital in Istanbul -- his question motion was made. I want to thank you all for listening to me at this time of night. Besides, have a nice holiday.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0409par0497	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0410par0501	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit08spe0409par0502	I'll call. Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Oran, Mr. Acar, Mr. Trust, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Kollali, Mr. Coach, Mr. Yüpeer, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Öner, Mr. Öner, Mr. Moroğlu. I'll give you a minute. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0409par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th session of the 131st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the 10th article, there was no sufficient number of decisions to vote on the motion given by İzmir MP Hülya Güven and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We'll resume the talks of Bill 301 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on the 11th article, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "need and necessity be changed" in the sentence added at the end of Article 5 of Article 5258 with Article 11 of Law Bill 301, which is currently in session. Nurettin Canikli Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Love Look Recep Special Ali Öz Oktay Vural scholar Emin Çınar The other two motions are the same. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The 301 Orders of Health Ministry and Associations of Companies, under the State of the Law, and the 11th Amendment of the Law on the Government of Some Laws and Laws. I propose and submit that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Levent Tüzel Erol Dora Fair Kurt Nazmi Gür Dr. "Glory to the Heart" "Solomon Çelebi" Kadir Gökmen Reminder Aytun Çiray Free Special Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0411par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0409par0034	Hope Oran, Istanbul MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0412par0036	And I salute the High Council once again. Now, of course, let's talk content at this hour, shall we talk softly, shall we, shall we, shall we?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0413par0038	It's best if we don't talk.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0412par0039	You're right, it's best if we don't talk, but then we shouldn't bring it up until now. So, when we looked, now we, tonight, look, 23 bags of legislation came in.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0414par0040	He came to you with a deal.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0412par0041	Again, the night before Sunday night, 60 items came into the law with 36 different laws, and this bag came at the last minute again.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0414par0042	He came in agreement with the opposition.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0412par0043	I mean, we do this kind of work all the time in the middle of the night. When you really look at it -- when you look at it as a legislature -- when you look at it as a government that does the legislation, and when you look at the conditions of working in Turkey today -- the rules set by law and execution are not more than 45 hours a week. No more than three hours a day, the average monthly shift is 22.5 hours, and you can't pass 270 hours a year. It's the Supreme Assembly and the Government that put it there. I mean, that's the rules of work today. Now the Parliament that put it doesn't follow its own rules. You can't really understand that. How does it not fit? That is, unfortunately, the government's policy on this issue is not in line with its approach. Mr. Minister of Health, we have a lot of fellow doctors here today, friends from the health department. I don't know the exact age average of the House, but it's probably over fifty-five, right? So it's about fifty-five years old.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0415par0045	No, 40, 40.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0412par0046	Now, if these people work 24 hours a day when you look at them, if they work like this every day, let alone efficiency, let alone the result, these people's mental health and physical health fail. I mean, it's not right to bring them in like this. Doesn't the House work day and night? Of course he does, and the Veterans Council did. It'll be a matter of war. Besides, Turkey faces a war threat today. Here's Syria... my friends have expressed themselves, I'm not going there. So the government's position is in the middle of Syria, and we're facing a war threat today, so let's work on it. Of course we work or the threat of terror. I just said that while I was giving my speech, we have 27 martyrs and 63 wounded in one month. Shall we work day and night until the end of the war on terror? Let's work. But now that we're looking at it, it's really unfair to the Turkish nationals, to the 74 million people who voted for us, to even disrespect them. Now I'm curious about one more thing: the 3rd term of power, the vote has increased, the people have shown humility, here it is called Kalfa, the apprentice, the master. I mean, I know about previous lifetimes, and then there wasn't much work like this in his first year, except for the extraordinary circumstances of life. In my opinion, the government is also a master of the current ruling party, lawmakers, and there's a comeback here, and there's no going forward, and I'm afraid there's been some inconsistencies, and I'd like to say there's been a discrepancy.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0416par0048	Come to the motion.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0412par0049	Now, look, it's about the law, the motion... we're against it. I'm not a doctor's child, but my parents are my doctor's son, and I've come from inside this community, and I know the problems of this community, and a while ago -- my father was a college professor, gave him his years, gave him 45 years -- because of the medical system's transformation, subcontractorization and privatizations, I lost my father, and so the fire burned down. I'm a victim of this systemlessness. So, what my friends are saying today -- I'm saying that we're against having these family physicians on watch. Berat Kandili was referred to as Berat Kandili, the day to repair broken hearts, to break resentment, to overcome hatred, hatred, revenge, and to absolve the servants of sins. I, the Justice and Development Party, ask my fellow lawmakers to come to the House and work in good health after going on vacation and returning -- God willing -- clean up these sins of theirs. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Thank you, and I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0417par0055	Thank you. The material is edited with vague concepts and grammar games. The aim of this arrangement is to present an approach to work conditions with 657 additional 33 added articles added to the substance that make them open, flexible, and an instrument of more exploitation. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "need and necessity be changed" in the sentence added at the end of Article 5 of Article 5258 with Article 11 of Law Bill 301, which is currently in session. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0418par0067	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0417par0068	I'm reading the reason: It must be possible for family physicians and family health workers to be assigned a duty of duty, not every time the need arises, but in situations where it is not possible to be met in any other way, and where there is a necessity. The motion also stipulates that there is a necessity for post duty. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on the 12th article of the same nature, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 301-level Ministry of Health and the Law on the Offices and Missions of the Companies, and the 12th Amendment to the Law and Laws of Some Laws and Legislative Laws. I propose and submit that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Levent Tüzel Erol Dora Fair Kurt Nazmi Gür Dr. "Glory to the Heart" "Solomon Çelebi" Kadir Gökmen Reminder Aytun Çiray Free Special Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0419par0090	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0417par0091	Sedef Küçük, İstanbul MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0420par0093	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 12th amendment to some Laws in the rank of 301. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers have branded the agenda of our country over the past few weeks, a process that began with the Prime Minister's statement, "Kurtaj is murder." Immediately after this statement, Mr. Health Minister, Mr. President of Religious Affairs, public officials and part of the media, including a mayor, have stated that women do not even have a say in the matter, the state should be the decision-making authority. In the process, we've learned from society that abortion is not only murder, but that women who have been forced to have abortions are actually killers, even women who have been raped have to give birth, and women who have had abortions have to kill themselves. The process didn't stop here either. A doctor who defied all medical ethics and sent a message to the father of a woman who had gone to the examination to inform her daughter that she was pregnant. Dear lawmakers, I think that those in political decision-making places should be more careful with the language they use and the approach they use to their citizens. Women's bodies and preferences should not be the subject of politics. It must not be forgotten that the government has no right to interfere in the privacy of individuals. The United Nations Convention on Civil Rights and Political Rights (Islamic Rights) is dated 2000 and number 28 on Article 3 of Article 28 of the Human Rights Committee. In the general interpretation of the lu, it is said that the entity states should provide information on measures that will help women prevent unwanted pregnancies and ensure that there is no need for secret abortions that will endanger women's lives. Under this contract is our country's signature. This signature is a responsibility to our country and power. There should not be any arrangement to disregard this and many other international contracts and to go further back on it than there is now. Any misstep in this matter will not only limit women's basic rights and freedoms, but also cost the lives of dozens of women. And no one has the right to ignore it. The government does not show the same sensitivity to the basic human rights of its citizens, saying the 12-week-old fetus showed sensitivity to life rights. The number of students is under arrest for thousands of water, hundreds of journalists are under arrest, unionists, elected mayors, and even some of the Turkish Grand National Assembly are under arrest. This is not just the problem of the imprisoned people; it is not just the issue of those students and those families; it is not just the issue of those unions, journalists, elected; the issue of human rights is far beyond the issue of those who have been violated; it is a matter of all of us, whether we belong in a modern world. Police and prosecutors, who are trying to create an organization from every opposing thought, criticism, concerts, and even private conversations, make it clear whether we belong in a modern world. This is an example of police officers who brutally beat up a citizen in front of his wife and child and believed that the uniform they wore gave them power over the law. This is an example of the justice system, which has ruined the lives of dozens of people by unjust arrests. I feel the need once again to say that no one, especially those in law enforcement, is above human rights and freedoms, and I salute you all. I also congratulate your Berat Kandili with my deepest feelings.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0421par0099	Thank you. In Article 12, it is intended to leave the family physician's work hours entirely to the ministry's initiative. Currently, our family physicians, who serve under very difficult conditions and for a long time, are requested to be subjected to further work at the ministry. Article 12 must be removed from the text of the law. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 13 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 13 of the Common Health Ministry of 301 and Connected Institutions to the State of the Law on the Offices of the Union and the Government of the Law, and to the amendment of the 13th Amendment in Articles of the Law and Law. With all due respect. Dr. "Glory to the Heart" "Solomon Çelebi" Kadir Gökmen Reminder Aytun Çiray Free Special Article 13-11/10/2011 and the first clause of Article 7 of Article 7 of the Court of Law on the Offices of the Ministry of Health and Associations No. 663 "J) Press and Public Relations Advisory." "k" as a consultant for physicians and health workers to protect their rights." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0422par0121	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0421par0122	Sena Kaleli asking for a word on the motion, please.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0423par0124	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, we've finished the bag laws that became an AKP brand at the end of the semester, and we're discussing the patched-up bill. I salute your high council. Congressmans, the bill is www. It's all here. It combines many unrelated arrangements, such as com▪. Put the law in the bag, put it in the bag, shake it out, hit the health, hit the judgment, hit the citizen. Undisputed, unprovoked, unprovoked studies are coming back to the General Assembly less than a year after the break, which makes the efficiency and dignity of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which should set an example in everything. The laws that come to the agenda are enforced by regulations and generality. Members of parliament, all arrangements under the name transformation in health include privatisation of health care. With these transformation arrangements, hospitals are transformed into private businesses, patients are viewed as clients, health workers are reduced. The service has turned into marketing, the medical profession has lost its former reputation. There are no adequate beds, ICUs, equipment, equipment, doctors, and medical staff in hospitals outside of privates. We're almost all intermediaries on patients' calls, appointments, and surgery days. On the other hand, these policies do not provide solutions to any of the health workers' problems. The bill that we have discussed has not solved any of the problems that I will now consider: problems such as the midwife and the nurses' lack of wages, irregularity in their return capital payments, the loss of return capitals to retirement, the lack of job descriptions, the excess of risk, and violence, and the lack of expertise in the profession, are also ignored. Dear lawmakers, the first item of the bill appears to be an arrangement for the C-section, but the main target is the woman. It's a woman's way of life under the guise of human focus. Another regulation of the bill is to allocate staffs of public health directors, administrative vice-presidents of public health. However, public health experts who have been educated for four years have been ignored in appointments to public health centres for public health directors. For example, a biochemist has been appointed to the Finnish Public Health Department. How is this friend's ability to be a manager measured and qualified? Dear lawmakers, I'd like to open a parentheses special to breast cancer, the most common type of cancer, when negotiating on health. In order to increase cost efficiency and the chance of living, the rate of spread of disease, the frequency of sight and the reasons for its awareness are very important to investigate, create data. Unfortunately, there is no statistical data in our country that is unique to our country. MEMEDER, one of its founders, performed for the first time in our country a record-scanning programme based on social monitoring for ten years in Bahçeşehir, and received awards in national and international areas. We continue to study awareness and scanning in various provinces in the determination to spread these studies across the country. My wish is that the government supports this kind of work as part of protective health care. On the other hand, it should open the way for future breast cancer insuranceers to retire on disability. My legal proposal for disability pension is still pending a review of the commissions. I'd like to hand over the signed petitions I received regarding the matter to the Minister. I wish you good lamps and good holidays, believing in your sensitivity to human health. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0424par0135	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one are complete. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter covers the 14th and 24th Articles. Nurettin Demir, MP of the People's Party Group on the second chapter.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0425par0143	Good morning, friends. Hello again. Of course, it's morning now, a lot of people wake up, but by morning, the most bakers are up, the obstetricians are up, the people who usually go to work in general or far away. We've been through a tiring and intense process.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0426par0146	Mr. Demir, the MPs will be on their feet at this hour. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0425par0148	Yeah, and the lawmakers will be up at this hour. Mr. President, you're right. The awake ones, of course. There's sleepers, but that's all there is to it. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to tell you about an incident that took place here last month in Adapazari. Ayşe Tahmaz. Ayşe Tahmaz is a working wife. Forty-three hours of trauma, so considering we've been working for two days, she's been in pain for 43 hours, and after forty-three hours, the midwives press on her stomach and force her to give birth. His jaw breaks, his jaw splits in half, and 70 percent of the brain is deprived of oxygen, and the child -- now -- is in the incubator for a month or two, and unfortunately, the baby is injured. When the family is sad and the father goes to the doctor, when the chief physician and the doctor, the responsible group, come to us with the law, what do they want us to do? Of course, the important thing is to catch a healthy generation, to make healthy people happy. I wonder if the Minister of Health or the Prime Minister will take care of this baby. Of course, it's a very important matter. Really, I wonder how much the decision we've made will make us happy, make our society, our people happy. Especially since I'm back on this whole C-section thing, there's one thing I'm having trouble getting back to. The physician cannot be held responsible for the unwanted consequences of the birth, even though the necessary measures were being taken. Perhaps if this joke was made when the C-section first began, it would be acceptable, but let alone the 20th century, in the 21st century, this law became something like a ostrich. In the proposal of the law, this material is made to look like a protective clause, but it does not protect physicians, respected lawmakers. You can't solve irresponsibility in the law with a legal arrangement first, there's no such thing in law. Perhaps the President will be given such a privilege in some matters. The C-section of C-sections and patients with a mother's will is attempted by law to avoid the decision-making and evaluation of the patient without a public debate. The mother may choose a C-section of her own free will, even though there are not enough illuminations. The mother wanted to make an object of medical intervention that the C-section was not a medical concern, which she did not want to do, especially in terms of the medical ethics and the modern law. The proposal of the law is seen to have no innovation in the implementation of a C-section based on medical care, and in the case of an unwanted outcome, in terms of medical malpraxis, the physician's criminal law, the responsibility for compensation law and administrative law, only the presumption of the information. If a real contribution is thought to be made in this regard, Malpractis sentences, such as in developed countries, should be brought to the agenda of corporate responsibility and payment, and regulations such as opening the way for professional immunity should be discussed. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're making important decisions here... especially for health workers, but the medical staff still don't even have a professional room code. Health personnel in 2/438 and March are still on the committee, although the occupational code was submitted by me to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We still haven't received any response from Mr. Erdöl, the President of the Health Commission. I think the law of this profession is more important than the issues discussed today, or at least as important as they are. According to the 1982 Constitution, which is considered a product of the coup, it is mandatory to establish a vocational chamber of professions. It has not been removed from your professional code of health for ten years. In reverse terms, the 1982 Constitution seems fairer to you. You don't want NGOs, and you never accept criticism. Dear lawmakers, I have not been able to answer Health Minister Mr. Akdağ's response, again in March, to answer questions about the working of nurses outside their duties, the quality of staff in the health sector; again in April, I have not been able to answer the conditions of medical staff working in the laboratory and applying family medicine. In May, Minister Akdağ did not respond to my written motions for cuts in health care workers' return capital revenues in May. So he showed once again that he wasn't really thinking about health care, he was just serving neoliberal economies. It is evident that the draft of the law, which has been rushed out without discussion in society, has not been taken care of. Congressmans, all sorts of issues have been snuck into this bag draft. For example, the issue of tobacco and tobacco products in the 8th, 9th article has been brought into the subject, the subject, and the subject of the bong. We're all in favor of that. I also appreciate the works of Turkey, especially the non-smoke Turkey in Turkey. But, of course, I want to underline a Turkey that is concentrated in pepper spray as it forms a smoke-free Turkey. Especially in Turkey, where I travel and travel, we expect that the drug problem that goes down to villages in places such as Viranşehir, Göcek, Milas, Fethiye, and descends until the age of nine is far more important and should not be ignored, as well as our efforts in salt policies, obesity policies, as well as our efforts in tobacco, should also be shown, especially in drug and substance abuse. In terms of midwifery and nursing, it is not right that professions are especially intertwined. Again, I think it would be helpful to reorganise education by adding midwifery, newborn, O.R., or intensive care nursing. In 2007 -- using your number advantage -- there was a serious arrangement in the Nursery Act, and at that time the midwives were given an opportunity to nurse. The Ministry must have important requirements for bringing it back, but, as I said, Turkey has to work very hard on nursing and midwifery in the coming period. Our friends in the 11th article, they've talked enough about family medicine, and I think it's going to take a lot of work, I think. Health policies, which the Justice and Development Party's ruling has so far deceived our people with deception, will be one of the reasons for the well they will fall into. With these thoughts and feelings, I pay my respects to all of you, thank you for listening to me, have a good holiday.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0427par0162	Thank you. Ülter Can, Eskişehir MP... no. Orhan Delegate, Slap Congressman.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0428par0166	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to begin by saying good morning and celebrating your candle. My dear friends, today a friend of mine from Tokat, a neurosurgeon from Tokat, called me, the only neurosurgeon who currently serves at Tokat. You'll remember, more recently, a fellow physician of ours was murdered, and Mr. Minister said in this House: "The hand raised to health staff has been raised to me." I sincerely appreciate the Minister's speech as a physician and hope, but after this, the events that have occurred -- and I sincerely ask that the Minister not to be offended, because I couldn't find a more polite word, and I certainly intend to desecrate it -- but the events that have happened since this process have raised in me have raised the concern that Mr. Minister might be a masochist. Now, my dear friends...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0429par0170	Mr. President, would you please warn the minister?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0430par0171	Mr. President... what the hell is this?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0431par0172	I'll make a promise, Minister.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0432par0173	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary, look, from the bottom of my heart,
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0430par0174	What's going on? How can you say that?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0432par0175	I said I didn't mean any disrespect, Minister.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0430par0176	What kind of nonsense is that? You speak Turkish.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0432par0177	Minister, I speak Turkish, yes.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0433par0178	Then you know what a masochist means.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0434par0179	But you have no right, Congressman.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0432par0180	Look, Mr. President, once again...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0434par0181	Please, Mr. Straight...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0432par0182	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0435par0183	You'll take it back. Anyway, you guys talk. I'll give you your answer in a moment.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0436par0185	Please apologize. Apologize, apologize! Take that back!
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0437par0186	Don't give me no hand, no arm sign. I know what I'm saying. Minister, look, from the bottom of my heart...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0436par0188	What are you saying in all sincerity?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0437par0189	Before we get started, I'd like to ask that this is not considered an insult or an insult.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0438par0190	It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0436par0191	You take it back, take it back!
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0437par0192	Minister, if you take this as an insult, I apologize, and I take it back. I didn't mean it that way. That's not what I meant. In this country, people get beaten up doing their duty. Just a month ago, another neurosurgeon broke both his nose and his arm in Tokat. Otherwise, I have no intention of insulting the Minister, and I have made that clear. Yes, my dear friends, people in this country who are trying to run this service are under intense pressure. These people have a serious problem with their rights. I know the Minister has successful medical work, and I appreciate it, but there are still serious health problems in this country. We have to say it, we have to say it, and you have to evaluate it. My dear friends, Mr. Secretary may be angry with this, but in his own words, there is one thing he said from this platform, he said that the necessary service is man's cruelty. After he said it, he removed the mandatory service, Mr. Secretary, but that day only when you finish medical school, the mandatory service is done today, and that's what you do when you do a sidebar, and that's what you don't give them. And on top of that, these people were at least assigned to their wives that day, and today, they've all been torn apart by a lot of rules. I think the Minister will be sensitive about this. Again, I sent a question motion to the Minister, and I said, "Mr. Minister, do you find it right for physicians to work overtime after 24 hours of work? Do you have such an app? I have not yet received an answer. Now, my dear friends, look, we worked all night. Put yourself in the position of a physician. Now, at this hour, you're going to the clinic, you're going to examine the patients, and you're going to serve until nightfall. Can you do something like that? Or how healthy can you make it if you can? How long can you do it? I'd like to ask the Minister again, please, stop employing the physicians after the shift. We're saying this, but look, in the law we're talking about here, we say that the family physicians should also stand guard. Now, the family physician looks at a certain audience, he has no chance of taking the night off after he's on watch, he'll be on watch until nightfall, he'll be back on duty. I'll give you my opinion on this matter again, my friends. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0439par0200	Thank you. Now, the question-answer process will be done. Mr. Acar, please.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0440par0203	Mr. Secretary, how many physicians who work in public or practice medicine have been forced to leave the public and move to the private sector by executive decree 650, which you smuggled out of parliament? That's my first question. In addition, how many cancer patients are waiting in line to have surgery because of the staff that was discharged in hospitals again, so they're not as lucky as the Prime Minister? Third: What pens are being spent on these contributions, and how much is being collected? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0441par0206	Thank you. Mr. Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0442par0208	Mr. Secretary, you can answer the question in writing. From 2002, how have social security and health expenditures improved over the years? If there's a functional distinction between social security and medical expenses, like staff, medicine, I'd appreciate it if you could give it to me in a picture. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0443par0211	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0444par0213	Thank you, my dear President. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTY has never enforced any law, any bill, or proposal by smuggling it from Parliament. There is no example of this, nor will there be any after it. Today's talks are actually a very important example. As EC PARTY governments, we have continued to strengthen public health care through the Health Transformation Programme, and we will continue to strengthen it until now, after today. Perhaps our valued lawmakers may not have the knowledge of our valued MP asking the question, but AK PARTI governments, often accused of implementing neoliberal policies in Turkey, have insisted since 2008 that the private sector open a new hospital in Turkey or a practice that controls the new employment of new personnel. Turkey was the first time in our era. Therefore, there are physicians who are separated from the public by certain laws, physicians who are coming to the public, but the number of public physicians has continued to increase year after year, and will then increase. The problem area in Turkey is the number of students admitted to medical schools. For years, certain trade organisations, certain circles that have been working with these trade organisations, have prevented the number of physicians in Turkey from increasing. This not only prevents the services provided to the citizens, but also increases the workload of physicians. Today, physicians are burdened with a great deal of work. Yes, it is important for a physician to rest as much as possible, and it is important for a physician to spend as much time with his patient as possible, but another fact is that the doctors of this country will serve the Turkish nation. So we can't send patients from Turkey to Yemen or Finland to meet their needs, either in terms of emergency services or in terms of treatment. Thus, the system is properly edited and operates correctly. As our citizen sees this, he shows that each passing year, both by polling, by increasing his satisfaction, by standing behind our government, by standing behind our governments. The contributions to medicine and examination in Turkey are among the lowest in Europe. In Turkey, pocket expenditures are constantly dwindling year after year. Why are we making a contribution to medicine and examination? Because unnecessary examinations, on the one hand, make it very difficult for citizens who need it very much, and also contribute to the drug in terms of rational drug use, of course. We all know that in Turkey, patients who sleep don't pay for medicine at all; chronic patients in Turkey, people with serious diseases don't pay for medicine at all. When it comes to health expenses, yes, health expenses have increased in Turkey, and we are proud of it. Turkey carried out health expenditures by the end of 2008 -- because after that, the official calculations of the TÜİK (TİK) have not yet been completed -- about $600 a year -- and from that day on, the figures are not certain, but are not certain -- from the projection of our health ministry -- health expenditures are between $550 and $600 per person. If we evaluate this with a parity of purchasing power, we're spending more than $900 to buy money for health in Turkey. The health share of OECD countries is $3,500 per person according to the share of purchasing power again. In Turkey, we spend $900 on buying power, and we now add two more vaccines to it -- thank God -- like we give our kids 12 vaccines for free. We provide all protective services free of charge, all emergency services free of charge. In this country, a citizen in the most remote part of the country is moving to the center in which he needs an air ambulance, without asking for a penny. These are the facts of the country -- thank God -- and the places where the AK PARTY government brings the country to health at the end of the decade. This is about $550 per person, $400 per person, made by the public. And in the years after that, there will be a substantial increase in that. But let me say that between 2003 and 2010, public health expenditures have increased by approximately 214 per cent, with public public public spending out of interest. Health expenditures have increased virtually 183 per cent during this period. So Turkey is a country that is parallel to its growth, and its health is divided by money. Compared to public extracurricular spending, there is no more money for health, and today the whole world is applauding the efficient system established in Turkey. Dear MPs, this is not only the success of the AK PARTY governments, it is the success of the Republic of Turkey. We should all be proud of it, and you should be proud of it. Of course, there are flaws in the system, there's work to be done. So that's what we're working with you until the middle of the night, to make up for these shortcomings, to do better, but I'm telling you this at this time of the morning: please open and read the country report that the World Health Organization published for Turkey in May. More recently, this report was released.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0445par0224	Mr. Secretary, we asked questions. You can also explain government policy in speeches.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0444par0225	I'm answering your questions. I'm talking about how health expenses are increasing, why they're increasing. And thank you all.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0446par0227	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0447par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, did we discuss KHK 663 in Parliament, or do I not remember? Because you said we didn't miss anything from the House.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0446par0231	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0448par0232	Mr. Horseman, here, we do our work according to the law and according to the Constitution. Decisions under the law are a Constitutional decree.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0449par0233	But in extraordinary circumstances...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0448par0234	We did these things according to the Constitution, according to the Constitution. You went to the Constitutional Court in accordance with the same Constitutional provisions. I don't know what's missing. Look...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0450par0235	Mr. Secretary, there are other questions.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0448par0236	Let me rephrase.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0450par0237	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0448par0238	It's all within the law and the Constitution. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0450par0240	Minister, there are other questions, please answer after you have them. Your Highness...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0451par0242	Thank you, Mr. President. According to Human Rights Association reports, there are 98 prisoners and 243 prisoners with serious health problems on the verge of death in prisons. Health in prisons is covered by human rights. Therefore, the punishment for restricting freedom should not mean that the right to health care has been removed, but unfortunately many prisoners have lost their lives in prison because their right to medical treatment has been blocked. In this sense, what did you do in prison to ensure better access to health care, and what do you plan to do next? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0452par0245	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0453par0247	Minister, I believe in all physicians who have taken the Hippocratic oath, but sometimes I hesitate. I'll give you an example and report it. Conqueror Hilmioğlu is a former university chancellor, and he lies in Silivri. An institution, a university hospital, says: "There is a life-threatening danger, there is a severe liver disease. There is no other institution. What I'm asking is, does it really exist or doesn't it? I'm asking you, what is this really about at another referee's hospital, another university and another referee's hospital? We should all be satisfied. That's what one university hospital says, another agency says. Which one do we believe? Do our hypocratic-eating physicians feel differently?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0452par0248	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0454par0250	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister has stated that accession shares in Turkey were low, but just before they came to power, patients would pay for drug participation, 10, 20 percent, and the reported ones would be zero. This goes on, but they pay 5 and 12 lira for admissions, according to private or public hospital. They pay a prescription fee for $3, they pay an equivalent drug difference, they pay all the difference on the cheapest plus 10 percent. And they brought it down from 30 to ten. The private hospital pays the difference fee, they subtracted it up to 90 per cent, they pay the difference fee, they pay the difference in early examination, they pay the primary examination fee, and they pay the extra fee for exceptional health care. They're all expressed by increasing the thickness of the wall between the patient's treatment and the amount of money between the patient's access to treatment, and when the total amount of money is divided into total expenses, you can pay 40 percent of the money in the pocket...
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0452par0253	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0455par0254	Thank you, my dear President. Prisoners and prisoners in prisons, seriously ill. I care a lot about that, too. We really need to be very sensitive to the right of health for people who have lost their freedom in some way, even legally, who are limited in this regard. So we've responded to the help the Justice Department has asked us to do, and we've done the protocol they've asked us to do, and we'll continue to do what we can from now on. There's something important here. Mr. Aslanoglu later said something similar, as did Mr. Yüceer. The question is, they both look alike. Now, if there's any life-threatening danger here, one board of doctors decides, another board of doctors decides. The prosecutors follow all the business and procedures involved, and the prosecutors run them. I'm afraid the Ministry of Health has no direct authority in this matter. This is a matter between the coroner's office and the prosecutor's office, which, by the way, is based on universities or other hospitals that have been identified as experts. When we visited Silivri and Metris, in particular, we discussed it widely with our Minister of Justice. I mean, there's really been some progress, but I believe there's got to be more progress. We're working on that with our Justice Department. Mr. Special has always repeated, pointing out something I've heard a lot about, both in the General Assembly and out of here. Now, the whole point is, with certain surveys or certain studies, you actually have to test all of this with math. For example, in Turkey, in 2003, the proportion of people who covered their own costs for medicine and treatment was reduced to 11.7 per cent in 2010, when they were 32 per cent with the figures of that day's State Statistical Institute. Not even 11.7%, right, but going from 33 to 32 to 11 is about a third of that. Again, as I have just stated, we will continue to protect our citizens, especially in terms of destructive health expenditures. Dear Congressman, in this country, from organ transplants to heart surgery... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...even in private hospitals for free, we know that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0456par0262	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There's a motion on Article 14 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 14 of the 301 Department of Health and Connected Institutions in the following way to the amendment of the Law and Law Act. With all due respect. Dr. "Glory to the Heart" "Solomon Çelebi" Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu Kadir Gökmen Öğüt Aytun Çıray Article 14-663 shall be added to the provisions under the rule of law after Article 19. ا Press and Public Relations Advisory Article 19/A- (1) The duties of the Press and Public Relations Counsellor are as follows: a) Planning the ministry's media activities and allowing these activities to be conducted according to the procedures and principles to be determined. B) Doing similar tasks given by the minister. C) Planning on the rights and problems of all health workers and making sure that these studies are conducted on the proper and fundamentals to be determined. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0457par0284	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0456par0285	Hatay MP Mehmet Ali Editoglu demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0458par0287	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to Article 14 of the Law Bill 301. I salute you all. Dear friends, a study shows that our citizens don't trust the media's health news very much. And when the reasons for this are investigated, it includes information that the healthcare area is commercialised, so many companies, hospitals, or people use business methods, advertising, advertising, and this is getting to scary sizes. The media also has major tasks in preventing violence in health. I think it's right that patients who have been followed by the media should be given the satisfying information about the course of disease within ethical values. After the violence, public statements must be made by people who are equipped, authorized and competent. Health correspondents who specialize in health care reports of written and visual media bodies should be provided with employment, and health counselling should be needed in the media. Because of the media's role in mass education, educational publications should be made to prevent violence, and medicine should be provided with the help of a religious institution, which serves the right to human health. I'd like to ask, in what profession, other than medicine, is three of the four people who suffer from violence because of their profession? Today we have to stop and think. Why is it that a man who dedicated the best years of his life to learning, studying, books, exams, surgeries to heal his patients is being subjected to deadly attacks in the middle of his hospital? Why is this anger directed at physicians and other health workers? Today we have to stop and think. Even though we know better today the causes of disease, because of technological development, and, more importantly, today, we can make our patients longer and more comfortable than yesterday, why do physicians and other health workers today suffer more humiliation, humiliation, and deadly attacks? Because this country is implementing the Change in Health Programme because the programme also causes violence in other countries where it is implemented. Excessively ill burden, the shortness of the patient's period, the devaluement of labor, the introduction of physicians as money-grubbing people, the recognition of health problems as physicians, and most importantly, the attempted destruction of the reputation and honor of the profession by reducing the profession to points. Sadly, physicians and other health workers today pay with their lives the cost of the practice of medicine becoming a merchant and health care services a business. On the other hand, it is not only those who exercise violence against the physician, but those who remain silent, who do not do what is necessary, who do not protect doctors and other health workers, who cannot protect them. Let's not forget that the foundation of medicine is patient rights. The only way for patients to get to qualified health care is through the humanity of health workers, physicians in private. Let us not forget that the foundation of the profession of medicine should not be, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, not, On the contrary, the foundation of this profession is love, understanding, sharing, solidarity, as it was said years ago. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0459par0301	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on the 15th article: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The 301-level Ministry of Health and the Law on the Offices and Missions of the Companies, and the 15th Amendment to the Law and Laws of Some Laws and Legislative Laws. I propose and propose that the Article (8) joke be removed from the article text. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Levent Tüzel Erol Dora Fair Kurt Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and recommend the drafting of Article 15 of the 15th Amendment to the Amendment to the Law and Law Laws under the provisions of the State of the State of the Union and of the Member States of the Union and of the Member States of the Member States of the United States and of the Member States of the Member States of the United States. With all due respect. Dr. "Glory to the Heart" "Solomon Çelebi" Kadir Gökmen Reminder Aytun Çiray Free Special Text Lütfi Baydar Nurettin Demir Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0460par0323	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0459par0324	Metin Lütfi Baydar, Aydın MP.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0461par0326	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to begin by celebrating your Berat Kandili, which we understand as Ramadan is approaching. It is said that when Nemrod casts Abraham into the fire, he commands the caravan owners to bring firewood to the fire. When caravans bring wood to the fire, an ant is seen carrying water with a drop. The caravan owner says to the ant, "Do you think you can put out a fire like a mountain with a drop of water?" The ant answers: "Maybe I can't put out the fire, but at least I'm naive. " We will continue to manifest our ranks, my dear friends.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0462par0328	Of course you're naive.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0463par0329	What line are you on?
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0461par0330	Now you'll see what line I'm on. In his statement at Ataturk University, the Prime Minister said that being in the stands on foreign policy has cost our country a great deal. I asked the Prime Minister with a written motion to ask what "very heavy costs" he had expressed. I'm curious to hear the answer to this question. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Mr. Prime Minister has stated many times that he would rather be in the field than in the bleachers. Given that the Prime Minister played football during the prime minister's youth, we can tell by these bleachers that what he wanted to say was a football game. And what will our country's role in football, run by the Prime Minister? The football player, the referee, or the coach or the coach who runs the teams? If the Prime Minister thinks of our country as a football player, he must know that football players are bound to obey the instructions of a manager. The coach determines what areas the football players will be in, how long they will play according to their training performance. From this point of view, who will control our country? Who will be the coach our country will depend on? If the prime minister is thinking about the role of referee in our country, we know that the referees are also connected to an upper institution, and that the institution has decided that they're going to the games, that they're going to be promoted to the next level. So, how will our country behave? No matter how righteous, just, unregistered the judges are, they're bound by a higher institution. If the Prime Minister is considering the role of referee for our country, who's the top institution we'll be committed to? The Prime Minister may also want our country to be in the field as coach. The coach decides who stays in the game, who stays in the team, who sets the team up, but the managers depend on a management. No matter how good he is, no matter how successful he is, he's always in danger of losing his job as a result of the president or management decision. If Mr. Prime Minister is thinking of coaching our country, who will be the director or president we will be committed to? We don't know which of the duties the Prime Minister considers our foreign policy. For all we know, any country run by this kind of foreign policy will always be in the hands of others. I like foreign policy like chess. I believe it's the governments that govern the figures on the chessboard. It is the states that govern pawns, castles, elephants, queens, kings. The ability of governments to predict three, four, five or more moves and to drive stones is a sign of the power of states. States that develop analytical thinking skills, do information analysis correctly, and never deviate from reality are able to maintain sovereignty by staying on the chess board for long periods of time. In my statement, I have specifically avoided naming any state. Following the release of Wikileaks documents, US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton praised US diplomats and expressed their duties. We understand from the U.S. Secretary of State's statement that they have top priority. Do you want to view foreign policy as a game of only 90 minutes, extensions and penalty sentences, or do you want to view foreign policy as a mind game that will last a long time, just as it is not enough to defeat the opponent in front of you? Your answer will explain how our country's foreign policy, led by zero problems, has come to the brink of war with all our neighbours. I leave the right answer to you and to our citizens' appreciation, and with these thoughts and feelings, I salute our great coven. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-03sit09spe0464par0342	[[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes. I've been asked to make a decision, so I'll call. All those in favor, all those in denial. Congressmans, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
