tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2013 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2011 Central Management Computation Bill. Under the schedule, we'll have two rounds of interviews today. The third round includes the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, the President of the Disaster and Emergency Management, the President of the Religious Affairs, the Chairman of Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, the President of Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, the Undersecretary of Treasury, the Banking Editing and Control Agency, the Capital Market Board budgets. 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security: Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) The President of Disaster and Emergency Management, the Central Management Budget of 2013 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) The chairman of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, the Central Management Budget of 2013 2) The President of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, Central Management Final Account for 2011 T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman for Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, the Central Management Budget of 2013 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) The Treasury Undersecretary's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Banking Editor and Control Agency Central Management Budget 2013 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board Central Management Budget 2013 2) Capital Market Board 2011 Central Management Final Account The commission and the government are in place. Members of parliament, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour can enter the system. In the third group, I read the names of the members of the group and their individuals. On behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group: İlhan Cihaner, Denizli MP; Haluk Eyidoğan, İstanbul MP; İhsan Özkes, İstanbul MP; Haluk Ahmet Şıkesir MP; Ali Özgündüz, İstanbul MP; Bihlun Tamaylıgil, İstanbul MP. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group: Muammar Güler, Mardin MP; Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu, Hatay MP; Orhan Atalay, Ardahan MP; Bayram Özçelik, Burdur MP; Seyit Sertçılik, Ankara MP; Burhan Kayaturk, Van MP; Mehmet Mush, İstanbul MP and Enver Yilmaz, İstanbul MP. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group: Ayla Akat, Batman MP; Adil Kurt, Hakkari MP; Altan Tan, Diyarbakır MP. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group: Mesut Dedeoğlu, Kahramanmarash MP; Mustafa Erdem, Ankara MP; Reşat Beşat, Tokat MP; Sumer Oral, Manisa MP, On behalf of his subjects: Lehnde Hasan Karal, Rize MP; on behalf of Abdullah Levent Tüzel, İstanbul MP. The first word is Ilhan Cihaner on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The talking time is six minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0002par0047	I salute everyone. I'm on the stand to give you the opinion of our party about Public Order and the Undersecretary of Security. You know, when this undersecretary was established, a very interesting weather spread to Turkey. The Kurdish problem and the fight against terrorism were created because of the lack of co-ordination between intelligence units, security forces, and if this lack of co-ordination was solved easily, an air was created, and the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security was established, and according to the law, the aim of this organisation was to develop policies and strategies related to the fight against terrorism, to co-ordinating institutions and organisations on this issue, to do policy strategy work in the field of counterterrorism, to assess intelligence from security and intelligence units, to share relevant units from security and intelligence units, to provide co-ordination, to ensure international developments, to monitor international developments, and to provide public communications. In this framework, the Intelligence Evaluation Center was established within this undersecretary. All security and intelligence would come to this station and be evaluated by this station. Planning Co-ordination and the Office of Social Support would prepare a counterterrorism action plan and monitor the implementation. The head of the RD Department was going to sort out the data and analyze it. And the Chairman of the Communications Department -- especially I want to get your attention to this part -- is to inform the public, conduct activities aimed at providing community support, provide civil society support, and again fight terrorism. It's actually called the "Psychological War Unit." It is no different from the National Security Council or the activities of the Western Working Group, which you constantly criticize. It can be viewed directly as a gladiator organization. Gene, the Office of Foreign Affairs was tasked with a mission to monitor developments in the fight against terrorism. In each province, it was also established as the director of social studies and projects. Now, of course, very interesting things happened in Turkey after this undersecretary was established. For example, the current Undersecretary of the MIT and the former Undersecretary of MITs have become investigated as suspected of terrorism. In Doves and Gaziantep, there have been serious acts of terror, explosions that attract the great response and hatred of the entire community. Outside, we were faced with an incident, such as the disaster of the blue Marmara. What happened in Syria is clear, it goes away in a week, it has no more than a week. The regime, which is called the Syrian regime, is still standing. Most importantly, as we all know, there's been an intelligence disaster, the Uludere massacre. Now, I'm just going to ask you some questions about this: why was the public not informed about the appointment of foreign personnel while writing information about the public and the principles of transparency among the people on the website of the institution? How did this institution, founded in emphasis on the multidimensional nature of the fight against terrorism, contribute to the solution to the problem of terrorism? How much has economic and social conditions been improved? Has there been a significant reduction in mountain climbing rates in the eastern and southeast provinces? Does the government and institutions have a complementary, solution-oriented strategy in this regard, except to recommend that they can go to foreign countries in case they drop weapons on the mountain? The institution's law on the Anti-Terror Co-ordination Board was intended to provide co-direction in the fight to be carried out within this scope. However, reports have come out that in early May, Undersecretary of the Agency, Özçelik, resigned first, and later this report was denied and then Özçelik was dismissed. How can a board that can't even coordinate itself coordinate the fight against terrorism out there? If this doesn't indicate a lack of coordination, is this an intelligence war, what are their reasons, and who has won? Can we review the MIT investigation with this? If co-ordinating the organization's law on the fight against terrorism has been achieved, what is the reason why the murderers of the citizens who were murdered in Uludere are not brought to trial? Or is the first fruit of this coordination the Ulidere massacre? How can the Prime Minister defend the death penalty when there are principles in the Human Rights and Terrorism Book, which the institution suppresses, where there are no laws, no human rights limited, no respect for privacy and no death penalty? And how was English put on the institution's website when the language of this book was not understood? Assuming the institution is co-ordinated, assuming the state has a unified policy on this matter, can we use another word other than hypocrisy to describe the inconsistencies between the principles adopted by this institution and the policies followed by the government? It appears that this institution has no activity in its purpose. No activity has been shown on the Web site except that only media reports have been denied. I'm making a constructive opposition, and I'm making a suggestion: dismiss this undersecretary immediately! Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0003par0055	Thank you. The second speaker is Haluk Eyidoğan, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0004par0057	Mr. President, it's impossible to say that our cities and other settlements today are more secure than they were in terms of natural and industrial disasters ten years ago. Emigrations to cities, unsupervised and random construction, unscheduled settlement and industrialisation trends continue intensively. At this rate, it is no surprise that we face greater losses and losses in the face of natural and industrial events in the future, especially earthquakes. In addition to the urban earthquake process, the city floods are now under way. Dear MPs, look, the total rate of destruction caused by earthquakes, landslides and floods in Turkey is 95 percent of all disasters. I don't go into earthquakes at all, because in that regard, we're going to make a national transformation for protection; we're going to tear down 6.5 million structures. Talk about what? Talk about the high-rise earthquake regulations you haven't been able to get out in ten years while the Rantist is looting and building high? Talk about a disaster that you don't know how to detect, a risky structure and disaster, a risky area? Dear lawmakers, in Turkey, our scientific ability to use land is still very poor. We still haven't set a standard; everyone's planning land according to their own understanding, or rather, they can't. Water basins, forests and farmland are being squandered in the name of urbanization. Total risk planning and management are out of the question. The basic principles of the Integrated Disaster Management System, which you mentioned in your statements but failed to do, should be: To consider all dangers, to apply all phases, to use all resources, to allow all individuals and institutions to participate in them. Look, meteorology says the rain regime is normal, but every day we get floods from one of our provinces. If earthquakes and floods are increasing as urbanization increases, then there's a wrong way to govern. There is no protection, risk reduction management, unfortunately, and the management of aid and wounding is still under way. Dear lawmakers confused the concepts of disaster-inflicted regions, even in the Van-Ercish earthquake, on October 23, 2011. They gave the Prime Minister false information, surprised the executives. They confused Law 4133 with the concepts of Law 4123. The concept of the affected area is a precautionary measure to prevent direct disasters and reduce the effects of disasters. Because you're not a professional, you're still making changes in the AFAD Law through those weird bag of laws because of the problems that have arisen in every disaster. Dear lawmakers, Turkey is a country where large and large cities are regionally formed. AFAD must not attempt to perform all services at the centre and in the country. It must remain only at the level of strategic decision-making and coordination. We recommend that other levels be: the strategic decision level; this should be associated with the government. The level of tactical decision and treatment should be associated with mayoral mayorates. The level of operations should be associated with major cities and district municipalities. In the cities in which you have raised the number of major city municipalities, the governorship and the mayors of the capital should be brought together with the joint command system, and disaster responses should be met with police, fire departments and ambulances. The AFAD Law needs to be rewritten by targeting the model of organisation to reduce risk in today's world. Dear MP, the government has said we will remove the multi-head rule. The duties of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanisation General Directorate and the duties of the AFAD (AFAD), municipalities, and even the NGOs, are intertwined in Article 644. There are such complications in other relevant laws. What agency, with what authority and responsibility? Now that the situation has become so, we're going to need an institution to coordinate AFAD. If you look at the latest applications, you will see that the AFAD (AFAD) works only as a relief and intervention institution. Only 2 per cent of its total budget is reserved for the head of the Planning and Damage Reduction Agency, that's all. Dear lawmakers, in your ten years of power, everyone saw that you were unable to manage the risks of natural and industrial disaster. A government that can't reduce risks always comes to the point of wounding and building again. AFAD's starting to work a little bit like Redbear and a little bit like TOKI. The wounds will heal, but risk management must end its weakness. That's not going to happen right now with the AFAD organization. Multi-head disaster management in Turkey will not be able to solve the problem, nor will it reduce disaster risks. However, we do not approve of the budget of AFAD (AFAD), which will be engaged in intervention, aid, and wounding. Every penny spent in the budget of this institution, which operates under the wrong terms of disaster management, there are taxes on disasters, accidents, from our citizens, orphans have rights. My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0005par0068	Thank you. Third speaker Ihsan Özkes, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0006par0071	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group regarding the religious budget in 2013. I salute you all. Congressmans, as the party that founded the Diet, we respect the religious institution and the clergy. We believe that dialogue can only maintain its dignity because it is political. Because our great religion, Islam, is a divine religion, universal, and has come to all mankind; it's over-party, it can't be in the monopoly of any party, it can't be in political custody. However, the Dianet, established by Ataturk, sees even a Fatiha. The president of the Diabetes, who supports the seminary, is in the way of his camisoles. It hurts our unity and unity to not attend the funeral prayers of the people of the state, to not participate in the martyrs' funerals in the mosques, to not be a member of the state. The rights of Alevi are ignored in the religious budget, including the taxes of Alevi. The religious budget, called "Haram" by the Alekis, is being overcrowded by activities held in luxury hotels. Generally based on the religion of Hanefi, let him remember that Abu Hanife was martyred and made the greatest imam, for his opposition to atrocities against the people of Emevi and for the first time in the special authority court established at the time, and for his refusal to be a judge in the court. Members of parliament, at Neşet Ertas' funeral, the deceased's Islam was questioned and the Prime Minister's speech turned it into a religious funeral rally. The president of the Dianet, who gives a ruling abortion fetish on order, should give a fatwa, not to the prime minister's eyes, but to the Quran. He should try to be close to God, not to the AKP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0007par0076	Bravo, Master.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0006par0077	The religion has lost its ability to become the Diyanite of Turkey, and has entered the direction of power. He has forgotten his duty to enlighten the people of the law on religious matters. As Mr. Gormez dealt with politics and trade in the presidency, the country is surrounded by jinns, healers, mediums, bidets, and superstitions. Honourable lawmakers, the mosques above six trade houses, otherwise known as mosques - are multiplying like avalanches. Physically disabled, the elderly, the sick and the children are having trouble going to these mosques. How many MPs and mayors of the AKP have mosques? The Qur'an's prayers belong to God. The mosque markets in our time are often owned by the AKP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The location of mosques meant to unite, to bring them together has not been discussed throughout the history of Islam. Because it's incompatible with the meaning and qualities of a conflicted and controversial mosque. Therefore, mosques must be placed above daily hot politics. There should be no place of worship like the Sacred Mosque. For the height and the greatness of a mosque, which is not inviolable in its foundation, only increases the evil of itsbani. Members of parliament, religious officials should not be appointed according to the wishes of AKP politicians. Although planned in July, the rotation of these winter days must be halted. The Hajj (pilgrimage) and 'Umrah (Israel) and 'Umrah (Israel) must be removed. The persecution of the clergy must be put to rest by the excise cases of the foundation's housing. Although other government officials take two days a week, the wages of religious officials who take one day a week should reflect on their wages for four days each month when they cannot use them. It's unacceptable to spend $400,000 of the money of pilgrims who make the most expensive pilgrimage in the world to repair the housing of the President of Religious Affairs. On the pilgrimage, 14 million Saudi hypocrites have suggested that the motion for corruption has not been answered for nine months. Members of parliament, the shooter websites that slander the president of the Diet show the size of the organization. There should never be an institution in the mud of injustice and corruption, which is covered by the veil of the sacred and waste of religion. The costs of the Religion Foundation and the Diet must be transparent. I repeat my request to the President to have the State Control Agency take action and investigate. No authority is untouchable. The Almighty is the only one unquestionable and untouchable. Isn't it obvious that the minister's wife in charge of the religion is the one who plays her daughter at the wedding? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0008par0088	Thank you. The fourth speaker is Haluk Ahmet Silver, Balıkesir MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0009par0091	Mr. President, the ministers and the valued MPs are one of our institutions founded by the decree of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency. An institution that operates abroad, which should implement its policies, is established and operates outside of Parliament's will. Of course, even when our ministries are established, if the will of parliament is bypassed, what will there be left for TİKA (TİKA)? But TİKA, we know that it's engaged in very important activities abroad and performs very important functions in Turkey's image. Whether it's true or false, it's a separate matter. In recent years, the TİKA has focused more on Middle East and African countries than on our relative communities, rather than on its purpose. TİKA policies and works have somehow become a landscape that enters the government and meets the goals of the world's spreading superpowers. As we noted earlier in our commission talks, it is possible that in areas where these practices and studies have been conducted, different kinds of rabbits come out of hats, other than the things shown as targets, and those goals may be achieved. Such goals may not be near the goals of the Republic of Turkey. It is doubtful that TİKA studies will carry water into Turkey's mill. These studies are more like representations of the superpowers' corner-snatching competition in Black Africa and the Middle East. Other than national interests, it seems to serve the balance of the world, the balance of the world, or the balance of some forces around the world. Who can say what advantages will Turkey have in the middle term in Africa? What benefits have been provided, and what benefits have been accounted for? What is the ratio of our trade with Africa on the total trade? If it's emotional, if it's development issues, if it's public service, go to Balıkesir's village of Hungarians. In the Hungarian village of Balıkesir, there is a population of 4,000 people in winter. Here, the clinic appears to be open; the door to the clinic is broken. There's no way you can get up healthy when you're in bed in the mayor's office. Instead of going to Somalia, go to Hungary. On the other hand, TİKA activities will, of course, serve to make the government look cute somewhere. Perhaps the government is looking for hope in its TİKA activities in order to find external support. The new forces of the world are trying to maintain their presence with the organs of countries like us, whose influence is high, as they seek their place on the ground of the ancient continent and Africa, because of the controversial co-existences of the United States and Europe. Look, you will see that in all Muslim countries, when the influence of the West begins to weaken, TİKA (TİKA) has been activated. They either go to TİKA or the Turkish congregations or they all go together. So we're going to ask again, what happened to nationalism? Where's the national view? Many of you come from this movement. Why did Turkey's co-operation and relations with other Turkish republics take place during the AKP administrations? Why are Turkish republics distantly treating AKP governments and especially Turkey, under their rule? Why have there been remarkable setbacks in relationships during this period and during the previous period of government? Today Turkey's foreign policy has ended nationalism. It is entrusted to a minister who says: It's a ministry that hasn't had any significant predictions recently. Isn't the word "nationalism" a word for "nationalism"? If your minister shows up, nationalism in Turkey is over. Let him say, "The period of nationalism in this world is over." Let him say, "Let's see what you get from the people you vote for." Admit it before you make a pun and change the scenery. TİKA and the government's turning their back on problems with the Uyghurs, the closest example, made their attitude clear. Just this year, the Human Rights Meeting of Uygur women from various countries of the world has been cancelled without an explanation. The women of Uygur were amazed, and they were shuttled in Ankara and Istanbul. I'll tell you this: playing Ottomanism in the Middle East and Africa is self-deception and running after an imaginary carrot. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We invite the government to wake up in foreign policy. Global conditions and geopolitical balances have changed five or six years ago. We need to look for our future, our interests, not in chaos societies, but in economic integration with our relatively stable, democratically developed neighbors, in cooperation and with them. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0010par0100	Thank you. The 5th speaker, Ali Özgündüz, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0011par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the budget of the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Community. Dear MPs, Mr. Bozdağ, in his speech in the Plan Budget -- I have the book -- did not count the Kerkuk Turkmen on Turkish abroad. So there's not a word in this pamphlet about Kerkuk Türkmen, not a word. Again, in his next speech -- I've read the speech text -- there's nothing there either. Apparently, your government doesn't count either the Turks of Kerkuk as Turks, it doesn't count or forget the relatives. Actually, he didn't forget, he wasn't put here on purpose. Because why? You know, recently, in Iraq, Barzani says: "Kurkuk and Mosul are in the Kurdish region." Therefore, the central government of Iraq is troubled. Kerkuk was not in the autonomous Kurdistan region during Saddam. After 2003, because the Central Government had no security forces there, the hepmerge took over, and again the demographic structure of Kerkuk (Kerkuk) was replaced, the Kurdish population was brought from other places, and now Kerkok is a city under the control of the hepmerge. In contrast, what is your government doing when you want to take control of the Central Government of Iraq again with security units called Central Government, Maliki, Dicle Unions? Your government is co-operating strategically with Barzani, who says that Kerkuk is in the Kurdish region. How does he do it? Despite the Central Government in that region, he's making oil deals, so you want Iraq to be strong, armed, strong against the Iraqi Central Government, and win over Maliki. So you're actually working to keep Kerkuk in Kurdish territory. In this sense, you are allies in the region with the Gulf, the Arab countries, the Sunni countries, sir, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the United States and Israel, so if you are openly allies, the valued MPs say, "This is my friend, this is my enemy. This is honest. Now, in the image, it's a false hostility to Israel, one minute, etc. You, on the other hand, have an alliance with Israel, with Israel in Iraq, with Israel in Syria. This is not in Turkey's interest. In early 2003, the Turkmen were Turkey's red line, and apparently your government gave up that policy, forgot the Turkmen.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0012par0107	The Turkmen are happy, leading with the Kurds, what's the big deal?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0011par0108	The budget for the President of the Foreign Turks and the Association of Relatives, which is not mentioned by Turkmen, is not worthy of my approval. I mean, the Ahýska Turks, sir, the Crimean Turks, the Gökoğuz Turks are beautiful, but the Turkmen? So don't take this the wrong way, sir, be enemies with the Kurds. I'm not saying anything.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0012par0109	The people are brothers, and they are good for God.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0011par0110	I don't want Mr. Sakek to be hostile, so don't let them take sides, the government is stirring up hostility, and I'm criticizing him. I mean, what do we care?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0012par0111	I wish we had as much right to freedom as the Turkmen there.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0011par0112	So Iraq doesn't have that problem. Dear friends in Iraq say that it is your duty, if you are the great country of the region, to be a mediator, not to be a party to a great country like Turkey, to be a judge in our own conflicts. If you are the great country of the region, your duty is to be a mediator, not to hold one side, not to hold one side. And which side are you on? I'm afraid you're taking the wrong side of our country's interests, my dear government. The Foreign Minister must have perceived the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as the ministry of enemy affairs, following policies that do not suit Turkey's interests with such strange dreams. This is not in the interest of our country. Let him say so, Mr. Secretary, that's why our cultural policy is in our country's best interest. Let us be convinced that we can support it, but it's not, unfortunately, the MPs are not. Yes, another issue, the Turks in Europe. Minister, Turkish courses in Europe, the Netherlands, which were held as an election in the schools until 2004 have been removed. You know, you must make sure that teachers and textbooks are provided by our country, where Turkish children learn their native language. Another thing, the Recycling Agreement. Talks with the European Union on visa exemption bring up Article 2 of the Reception Agreement. It's a very dangerous thing, so as we're going to take back those who have been going to European countries using our country, the citizens who have lived there for years, if they make mistakes in any kind of administrative, bureaucratic process, they're going to have to take it back. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] However, there is already a visa exemption under the 1963 Ankara Agreement. I'm saying we need to work on this. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0013par0120	Thank you. Last speaker, Bihlun Tamaylıgil, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0014par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to convey the opinion of the Republican People's Party on the SEC, BDK and Treasury budgets of the budget law. I salute our coven. Dear friends, we're discussing the 11th budget of AKP governments' governments, and during these budget talks, we have a picture of the state's expenditures in democracies and the principle that the nation's elected representatives would decide on behalf of the people, and we've begun with a budget that has been waived from the principle of monitoring whether or not they're being treated according to the will of the people. Here, we have not only been able to budget and budget this Assembly, but we have also been able to decipher the Court's rights, what it should do, and what it should do, in fact, to implement a deep degree in the rights of the national will and the inability to exercise that right. The budget grant gives the legislature the authority to control whether or not its spending permit and authority, given by budget law, and whether public resources are being squandered, demonstrates account and accountability mechanisms, but the power that prefers to avoid accountability, accountability and control, unfortunately, is causing such a big question to take place in the applications of the High Parliament, which we are under the most severe representation of today. Dear friends, as we look at it today, I'd like to share with you some data in terms of the general economy, highlighting the facts in some applications. First of all, Turkey is growing and gold is in both the world and the Turkish press with bright results. Is that the truth? You see, between 1980 and 2002, in the process, there are 151 countries in the world where we compete in the same league. In terms of their growth, 3.7 percent; Turkey's 3.9, which means we've grown bigger than them. What happened during AKP's era of power? The countries in our league grew by 6.6 percent, while our average growth remained at 5.1 percent. Well, we're looking, our exports have increased, our exports have increased... What happened to imports, no one's asking. When we look at this import, our country, which has imports of $642 billion in seventy-nine years, up until 2002, has an import of $1.6 trillion in the era of power. So, we're looking again, how's the loan coming along? I'd like to give you short numbers because it's very short, and I'd like to bring to your attention the headlines that concern the citizen. What about the citizen's credit card debt to the banks? It's up 16 floors. So, what about the consumer loan? That's 82 stories higher, so we're in debt. Well, we're finding ways to borrow so interestingly that on February 13, 2011 we've passed a restructuring law in Congress, where we've brought an app under the title of a simple law that's been shown seven times in your reign, you know, the famous pardon. We said: 'You owe money to the government, you couldn't pay it; we're building it, you use your credit card, you pay it in installments.' Now, then, you look at the individual loans in the banks' hands -- in terms of the credit cards and the credit cards in terms of the instalment loans -- and you see that the proportional increase in them is remarkable. So you're taking the government's debt in a different way than the banks' channel. On the other hand, you're looking at bad checks. I won't be gone very long. I'm just going to give you a single number based on data from the Central Bank and Interbanks Exchange Rooms Centre, which is that in October, when you look at it, the number of checks has increased by 27.8 per cent compared to last year. So, how much of a bad check has gone up? 100%. Our economy is very good, so we're getting these results. [[!]] On the other hand, the current ratio is the most important ratio of companies, showing its strength. And our current rate is that short-term debt meets currency reserves. Unfortunately, that's where we're staying. Well, I'll tell you another number in terms of debt: the total amount of debt, the internal debt, the public's domestic, external debt, the private sector's debt and the internal debt of the private sector. When we put it below, the GDP was 103 per cent in 2002, and today it reached 117 per cent. These can be evaluated by various, different numbers. And trust the economy. For the sake of confidence in the economy, see the central bank and the trust indexes that TÜİK have been released. Look, guys, take a look at what happened in November. On the other hand, let's talk about independent institutions. Unfortunately, Turkey, along with the AKP government, experienced two serious blood discrepancies. One of them is the principle of separation of forces, and the second is the law, which, unfortunately, has been created by an attitude blocking independent institutions, autonomous institutions. How did it happen? Remember, we took out the order bags under the law. So the name of the bag is the Law on the Agency and its Missions of the EU, and its consequences are the fact that the independent institutions here are being led by politics overnight. On the other hand, you seized the administration of the IMKB with a second law decree. It was very important that that bag was the title of the ruling under the law, and that was the decree on the Law of the Organization of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. You've performed your intervention through these. Now, Mr. Secretary, a Capital Market Law came out, and suddenly at night, the management of the SPK was changed, and it says: "Mr. Minister, there has been a market actors waiting for years to come up with a Capital Market Act. And this is the Capital Market Act, which has a depth in Turkey, its credibility, its transparency, its transparency, its investor, its capital, its capital, and its investments. Well, if he wasn't fast enough, if he couldn't keep up with your speed, why did you do the work of such a law with this administration? If you had changed management, it would have been law enforcement with a different administration. And who appointed this administration? Come on, CHP's guilty of everything, but we couldn't throw him out, so you appointed him. You appointed them yourself, and then, with different excuses, you put out some headlines. Come on, Mr. Secretary, please explain why you changed the SEC administration from here, why you needed such a motion. And you say "fast." But I don't understand your speed either. A minister says, a minister says, "Prepress fast." A minister says: speed, gas, unfortunately, we have to face an upside-down administration because it's only been announced two days ago: Turkey has experienced the lowest growth rate in the last three years, and we've had the highest production decline in October. You target with the OVP, however, when you look at it, you revisit every target you see, and we're very curious to see what kind of credibility you're going to provide. On the other hand, financial markets: you're moving financial markets to Istanbul. Moving to Istanbul, creating a runt there, not doing business for the financial markets, is about establishing a financial market, which is reliable, which will come out with the right laws in its applications. Look, Turkey's funding is coming in, the balance of new payments has been announced; when you look there, 27 billion dollars came to Turkey in the first ten months in terms of portfolio investments, 7 billion coming in as direct investments only. What heaven did Turkey become? Turkey became the most important paradise that those money bankers made with their investments, with hot money, and I'll tell you this: you passed a Capital Market Law, which, unfortunately, has entered into a quandary, except for the definition of crime and punishment, which has been determined in the Constitution, which is left only in the hands of administrative units. Those who think negatively about you and the markets will be punished, and you will wave like the sword of Damocles, to the investor who is not acting correctly. The other thing is BDDK. The new president of the BDK has been appointed, his first target is 60 banks. Who are these 60 banks? What criteria and what goals are these new bank owners in banks that are to be raised to 60, and we're looking forward to it, and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I want to say one last thing: when you look at it, it's very difficult to do politics, especially as a woman in Turkey. But in the midst of this political challenge, there should be a lot more attention to action and speech in terms of duty, responsibility, and perhaps state-dominatedness, but a woman should always be more careful when talking to a congressman. I believe that all of our female MPs should share that understanding. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0015par0149	Thank you. First speaker for the AK PARTI Group, Muammar Guler, Mardin MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0016par0152	Mr. President, Congressmans, I would like to welcome you on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the budget of Public Order and Undersecretary. I salute your high council. Mr. President, today a new institutional structure has become mandatory to strengthen coordination in the fight against terrorism. Because terrorism is one of the most powerful threats against the state of law and democratic systems. Terrorism endangers the use of democratic rights, causing significant damage to political, economic and social structures in the community. In this direction, the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security has been established to develop policies and strategies related to the fight against terrorism and to co-ordinate between relevant institutions and pennies. The work of the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security requires a flexible personnel regime. There are still 67 staff staff staffed, contractual and temporary. In accordance with the standard of staff, empty staff must be filled with qualified personnel and the necessary work must be completed to ensure that the Intelligence Evaluation Centre is able to function effectively. According to Article 6 of the Agency's Law, the Anti-Terror Strategy Document of the Undersecretary was issued during the time of the establishment. In accordance with this document, action plans must be carried out by preparing. The completion of this study in 2013 is of great importance. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers will be provided through multi-dimensional anti-terrorism projects, which will be produced as an undersecretary, and will prevent accession to the organisation. In this sense, there have been various projects, reports, analyses, research, books prepared and meetings held by the undersecretary so far. There are also important projects, workshops, and book preparations planned for the coming period. We believe that these activities will contribute to services intended for the establishment of the Undersecretary. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in this part of my statement, I would like to express our recommendations on the structure and work of our undersecretary. It's the government's own principles that separate the state from the terrorist and make it strong. Therefore, the fight against terrorism through the principles of law must be the basic strategy of the state in an environment where a person's life, his property, his opinion, is guaranteed, where freedoms are protected. Our country has been fighting separatist terrorism for nearly thirty years. Although many years have been fought, more work is needed on the organisation's integrated fight for the propaganda field. It is vital that these studies be evaluated in the light of scientific methods. Success in the fight against terrorism can be achieved with the participation of all parts of society in the fight. Undersecretary should focus on spreading the concept of anti-terrorism, and in this sense, more cooperation should be made with the International Centre for Research on Terrorism and Overreaching Crimes within the Police Academy, with universities, with NGOs, with symposium, work and projects. Undersecretary should measure social perceptions and contribute to counterterrorism in light of these findings. In addition, undersecretary specialists should be given career vocational status and should be trained to be assistant specialists in the institution's future. As we pointed out in last year's budget talks, the undersecretary must be used by staff of property managers. The archive and documentation centre, which is predicted to be established in the Undersecretary and is a memory center, must be implemented shortly. Mr. President, I would like to ask that the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, which I am honored to be the founder's undersecretary, be a good budget for 2013, and that the distinguished members of the Undersecretary, especially Mr. Mehmet Ulvi Saran, will sign the successful work, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0017par0162	Thank you. The 2nd speaker, Haci Bayram Türkoğlu, Hatay MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0018par0165	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the President of Afet and Emergency Management of the 2013 Central Management Budget Act. I salute your high council. Mr. President, our country is ranked third in terms of human loss in earthquakes and eighth in terms of the number of people affected in the world. On average, there is an earthquake every year between five and six. Based on the map of the earthquake zones, 70 per cent of its territory is among the first and second-degree earthquake zones, 76 per cent of industrial facilities. On average, 1,000 people lose their lives each year and 9,000 homes are damaged. The disasters pose a vital threat to sustaining sustainable development, and instead of a crisis-oriented sense of disaster management, they require a sense of disaster management, whose priority is risk management. In particular, with the experience of the 1999 earthquakes, a significant step has been taken in transitioning to risk management in 2009, after long-term research and study, by the Law on 5902. In the future, we have to act on the prediction that global climate change will lead to various disasters and emergencies, creating strategic policies and being prepared for the unexpected. In this regard, the presidency's mission has been determined to form a disaster-resistant society. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have carried out all the actions necessary in the disaster co-ordination of earthquakes in our province of Van, state, NGOs, private sector and citizens in the event of disaster, with a great spirit of cooperation and solidarity. In the first 20 minutes, more than 22 flights of rescues, more than a thousand rescues, health care and Redia personnel have been able to reach the area with vehicle and equipment and begin search and rescue activities in the region as quickly as possible. 252 of our citizens were rescued alive from the wreckage. The cost of improvement and reconstruction after the earthquake has reached 3.6 billion Turkish liras. Van earthquakes are estimated to cost our country $5.5 billion. The construction of 15,341 disaster dwellings has been completed and has begun its surrender to its rightful owners as of August 2012. On 23 October 2012, all rights owners were given their dwellings at the ceremony with the participation of our Prime Minister. The construction of 2,148 disaster dwellings, including the province of Van, is under way and will be handed over to the rightful owners within four months. Honourable lawmakers, approximately 188,652 Syrian citizens have entered our country due to internal unrest that began in April 2011 in Syria, and 13 tent cities and one container city, established in 7 cities of 133,640 Syrian citizens, have been hosted for over a year and a half, providing all kinds of human needs. In these camps, nearly 3,000 personnel serve on the basis of 7X24. In camps, almost 16,000 students receive education. The camp's electricity, water and sewage systems are also established, providing security with nearly 2,000 police, gendarmes and private security personnel. As of today, the money spent by AFAD for population movements from Syria to our country is over 455 million TL. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have been involved in 339 cases of floods, floods, traffic accidents, collapses, earthquakes, fires and so on as part of search and rescue activities in the first decade of 2012, while 860 people have been rescued alive as a result of an intervention with 1,833 personnel. A total of 854 million, 469, 917 dollars of emergency assistance has been sent to the governorates concerned about the disasters and emergencies as of the end of November. Honourable MPs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Health, the Chief of General Staff, the President of Religious Affairs, TİKA, AFAD, Rediay and NGOs have been co-operated to Somalia with 18 aircraft and 8 ships carrying a total of 23,000 tons of humanitarian aid supplies. The cost of assistance is more than 100 million TL. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, with these thoughts and feelings, I wish our budget of 2013 to be good for our country and our nation, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0019par0174	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the third speaker is Orhan Atalay.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0020par0177	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers will be seen throughout history in the study of human and social life that religion is the most obvious reality of life because it is the only discipline that understands every square of existence. As the late Begovic said today, if all the cities beneath the ground are raised above the ground, we can see that there are cities without schools or factories, but there is not a city without temples or graves, or, as Jesus Christ said in the Sermon on the Mountain, the truth is the city on the mountain, and it can never be hidden. And that truth, in its original form, is the most powerful religion that frees man from subjugation to superstitional rituals that have no reasonable basis. That is because only the prophets had the courage to speak the truth against the greatest tyrants in history. When religion is freedom, there is a fundamental discrepancy between religion and oppression. It is therefore described and rejected in the Qur'an as...... to adopt a religion through imrah, oppression, and violence. Dear lawmakers, the study of our historical and social reality will be seen that since Islam never imitated the church, we have never had inquisitive processes. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have destroyed or at least narrowed down the religious field in favour of the state, rather than securing religious affairs or guaranteeing religious freedoms based on the fictions of historic Descartes, which are based on bilateral space, private and public space. Thus, religious freedoms have been threatened and threatened, perhaps more than ever before in history. So, as of today, I believe the relationship between religion and state remains unresolved, as to how and where the boundaries will be drawn. In a modern world, where the emphasis on rights and freedom comes forward, there is no way for us to walk into the future as we are. So, in the new constitution, where Parliament has to carry out its greatest responsibility to society and history, the state-of-the-art relationship must be based on human freedom instead of the security of the state. Let's not forget that in our social memory, the terms of the word "security" are very problematic. Security and freedom, however, are not conflicting values. Let us not forget that religion and state are for the happiness of man according to true religion. Dear lawmakers, the AK PARTI, which has taken over a country that has made every aspect of our social system a problem, has been the ruin of a strict dictatorial ideology, have, from the beginning, given the right of every right to every right to freedom and therefore happiness in religious life, as it has been in every field. There is a comprehensive programme.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0021par0183	Where are the Flames? Where are the Cemevs?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0020par0184	However, the opposition has taken an unfortunate role in avoiding and preventing the liberation of responsibility that deters it.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0021par0185	So there's not a dollar in this budget. This budget is a restricted budget. Don't lie!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0020par0186	From this sentence, our government, especially CHP, has not suffered in its tens of years of power, has been despised, humiliated, denied, denied, assimilated, destroyed, discharged...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0021par0187	You still deny it.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0020par0188	...and for the citizens of Alevi, who have been sacrificed to tragedy policies like my class...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0021par0189	What did you do? What did you do?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0022par0190	What happened, after all?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0020par0191	... for the first time in the history of the Republic, with 304 participants from various parts, he organized seven full workshops...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0021par0192	What happened?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0020par0193	... we've come closer to a solution than yesterday.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0021par0194	You took 20 pages, you degenerated it into three pages.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0020par0195	After they have signed the act of living with us, their property, their lives, their rapes.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0021par0196	Is there a penny in this budget?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0020par0197	...in the name of the estate tax that you've given to our non-Muslim citizens, the People's Republican People's Party (CHP)...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0021par0198	Yeah, let go of 80 years ago. You've been in power for ten years. Is there a penny in this budget?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0020par0199	...that drag, that misery, this shame, again, the AK PARTY, has been eliminated by its legal arrangements.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0021par0201	Do you have a penny? Do you have a penny? This budget is a restricted budget. Look, you're a professor of theology... and I don't give you my blessing! This budget is forbidden!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0020par0202	My regret for my country is that opposition, in accordance with the nature of things, holds a position close to freedom and power close to status quo.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0021par0203	Tell me, as a theologian, as a religious scholar, whether this budget is lawful or unlawful. Why are you telling a story?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0020par0204	What is the character difference between power and opposition in my country? My answer, if asked, is that the closer the opposition is to the old, conservative, and oppressive style, the more eager it is for power innovation and freedom. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0021par0207	You be a libertarian! You're the power, you've been in power for ten years. Fear God!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0023par0208	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0024par0209	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0021par0210	Mr. President... one second, I'll answer.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0025par0211	Mr. President, what do we have here that friends get up?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0024par0212	Mr. President has made a mockery of the Republican People's Party. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0026par0213	Say again, Mr. Tanal. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0024par0215	Mr. Orator has just made a statement to the Republican People's Party. In that sense...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0027par0216	Mr. President, let the representatives of the group speak to the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0028par0217	Mr. President, in our friend's speech, sir, here he is, criticising the 30s and ages of the Republican People's Party, called the bassist, the totalitarian, the monogamous structure. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0029par0218	Okay, then make a choice. I have to make a promise to one of you, make a choice between yourselves.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0027par0219	Give it all to them if you want.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0029par0220	I promise you two minutes for bullying, Mr. Tanal. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0030par0224	Dear President, valued lawmakers are a period when the AKP period, the dictatorship and fascism, the phones of the entire community are tapped, their homes are monitored and people are under constant pressure, and during the AKP period, the Uludere, who gave the tax -- look, we're talking about the budget -- we're talking about the military, we're fulfilling all our obligations to the state -- 34 of our citizens -- the Public Order Undersecretary was also discussed a moment ago. You slaughtered our citizens based on the information that foreign missions have given you, and this is a 21st century dictatorship, where MPs' phones were tapped, citizens' homes were constantly monitored.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0031par0225	They go all the way into the bedrooms.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0030par0226	...a period when all the leaders, all the politicians, all the bureaucrats, had no privacy. It didn't even happen in fascist times; it didn't happen in Iraq, it didn't happen in Syria, it didn't happen in Egypt, it didn't happen in Libya. We live at the highest point of injustice, oppression, persecution in Turkey. The Republican People's Party will end these pressures, these atrocities, these prisons. Just remember, you guys are gonna need law some day. The Republican People's Party is still the port of the Republic People's Party, where you can take refuge, just as it has endured oppression, persecution, torture, injustice.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0032par0228	You got the parties mixed up, it was going to be the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0030par0229	The Republic People's Party is the only port you can shelter in. If the Republican People's Party hadn't happened, what college would you be studying at?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0033par0232	Thanks to you, thanks to you!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0030par0233	Those universities that made you study, those science nests are based on the education institutions of the Republican People's Party. Thank you, and I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0034par0236	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0035par0237	The university I went to was founded in 1957, and you didn't, Mr. Tanal!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0030par0238	Ataturk founded the foundation of the People's Party of the Republic if it weren't for him. [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security: Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) The President of Disaster and Emergency Management, the Central Management Budget of 2013 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) The chairman of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, the Central Management Budget of 2013 2) The President of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, Central Management Final Account for 2011 T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman for Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, the Central Management Budget of 2013 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) The Treasury Undersecretary's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Banking Editor and Control Agency Central Management Budget 2013 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board Central Management Budget 2013 2) Capital Market Board 2011 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0036par0270	Bayram Özçelik, MP of Burdur, is the fourth speaker on behalf of the EC PARTY Group.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0037par0272	Dear President, dear MPs; Let the earth be ashamed if the hair is not finished, Let the spear be ashamed that doesn't reach the goal. We're proud and proud to see our Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, which has seeded five continents with 34 programme coordination offices in 30 countries. If it stays in the master's house, this orphan building, Shame on the apprentice who won't keep him. ▪ There is a Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency that finds its apprentice and its master. The one color that doesn't fade in a thousand. If you can't flag, let the flag be ashamed. With that spirit and understanding from Turkey's history, Turkey struggles to bring help across the world to the needy, the oppressed, the victim, every nation waiting for help, every people, every country. TİKA is running at the same time as a dying baby, who is about to die without excusing a single moment of the lifeline that begins with birth and ends with death. Kyrgyzistan is at the Osh hospital, at the Azerbaijan National Centre for Oncology, at the opening of the wells in Niger, at the home of the injured children in Senegal. When we go to foreign programs as MPs, and we see a cultural work and service that we want to have in that country, there is a TİKA that has the courage to say, "Who is there?" Without looking to the right or to the left. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Let's see how TİKA (TİKA) carries water to Turkey's mill. In Kosovo, I. When Murad finds Hudavendigar's shrine as a ruin, when he sees the monuments of the wise Khan and the Ashtiye neglected in Mongolia, when he sees Medrese the Chained in the Ukraine and Giray Khan Turbesi in the Gardensaray, he will not be late, he will not be late, I will have it removed, I will chew it, I will take it, I will take it away. Islam is a civilization of tears. No civilization should be expected from people whose tear vessels are dry, who don't work. In Somalia, our Prime Minister and TİKA, who sailed on a ship of kindness for their mother and child, who were exhausted from hunger and thirst, had them say that humanity did not die. I'm the enemy of the oppressor, I'm very fond of the oppressed. We see those who say, "I love the oppressed in Gaza Friendship Hospital, Gaza Pedriatri Hospital, and TİKA in the West Bank Hospital, trying to make a life out of TİKA." Blessed be the feast of the helpless and weary Muslims, who have extended their hand to help orphans in the Sudan. Whatever we may say to the Ethiopians from the age of the Passover to the TİKA. While our ancestors were building charities by not closing their books after they died with the foundations they built, centuries later, the TİKA worked as a means of continuation for those goods, as a foundation, as a charity. In the school service of Akmescit in Ukraine, at Bektashi Centre in Albania, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, at Ayvaz Dede Festivals, in the city of Gilan in Kosovo. At Alaeddin Medresesi, we see the TİKA (TİKA) with joy. TİKA serves the world's spreading mind? It hurts your conscience to say that. In the Balkans, in the Caucasus, in Central Asia, in the Middle East, in the Turkish language is my mother's white milk. In the creation of the perception of a country that runs to the rescue of its helpless people, our foreign development aid increased 27 times in 2002 to $2 billion,363 million in 2011, from Yemene to Moritania to Moritania, wherever it is in the world. Being a litigator in this short lifetime, being a foundation, that's not every human being. WE consider those who work in TİKA (TİKA) and set targets for TİKA (TİKA) people who make funds for TİKA (TİKA) people who are willing to work as people of the foundation. By 2002, 10,086 projects were reached through TİKA. THE number of projects increased 4.5 times over the previous decade. I salute your high council with respect and respect.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0038par0292	Thank you. The 5th speaker, Seyit Sertçelik, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0039par0295	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group to discuss the President of the Turkish and Relative Communitys abroad. I salute your high council. As it is known, Turkish citizens living abroad are one of the main issues of Turkish foreign policy. The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, established in 2010, is working for our citizens living abroad and is developing solutions to the problems our citizens face. He has also been successful since the day he was established in the development of economic relations that are more important today, especially social and cultural, with relatives and relatives. Members of parliament, compared with Turkey's growing political and economic performance in recent years, the rise of our universities' educational quality day after day has resulted in more students choosing our country for education than in the past. The President of Turkish and Relative Community abroad is also doing studies on the education of students from abroad who are coming to study in our country. Besides the scope of European Union projects, the presidency is also responsible for establishing all kinds of principles for education within our country and for providing a successful educational process for students who come to our country under international agreements and for providing co-direction among relevant institutions in this context. In addition to important studies for relatives and relatives living abroad, the success and efficiency of the education processes in our country, as well as the benefit of the students and Turkey, will be an honorary envoy for each of them when they return to their homes. In the 1960s, the country's esteemed MPs signed labour-force agreements with Germany, Austria, Belgium, the Netherlands, France, Australia, and the United States. Today, we have six million citizens in 192 countries abroad. This number represents more than the population of more than 100 countries in the world. As part of the status quo, some of these people have been granted the rights of dual citizenship in order to benefit from the political, social and economic rights offered to them by the countries they are in. In addition, the rights of our citizens in Turkey are guaranteed in many areas of Turkey, which do not have dual citizenship in the countries they live in with the Blue Card app, but want to benefit from the rights that both our country and our country have known to them. The presidential co-ordination has made legal arrangements to ensure that our citizens living abroad can conduct their voting process in a healthy manner. In this way, our citizens will be able to vote in different ways, not just in customs doors, but in places where they live. In addition to maintaining sociocultural and economic ties to our country, the presidency is working to address their problems and improve living standards. In the countries where our citizens live, the presidency is making great efforts to address problems such as education, employment, political rights, dual citizenship and religious services. On the other hand, the Balkans, where we are connected with historical and cultural ties, have now reached the total population of more than 40,000,000 family members and relatives living in the Middle East and Central Asia geography. The strengthening of both cultural and social ties with these communities and the development of economic relations are the necessity and historical responsibility of being a great state. We consider the presidency of Turkish and Relative Community abroad to be an institution that fills an important void in our country. In many areas, such as the problems of citizens abroad, who have been neglected for many years, as well as their problems with their cultural identity, they are resolved by their expectations. This institution contributes to strengthening our ties by creating opportunities between relatives and relatives, and other countries, and to becoming a country that is heard and cared for in all areas. I wish you the best of the 2013 budget, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0040par0303	Thank you. The 6th speaker is Burhan Kayaturk, Van MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0041par0306	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on behalf of the Treasury Undersecretary's budget. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers have achieved significant success in maintaining macroeconomic stability since the EC PARTY government took office in 2002. In this framework, the lowest inflation in history, very low interest rates, very low unemployment rates; national income per capita, export figures, peaks in the central bank reserves. In short, the world's economies shook one by one, while Turkey's economy made the world feel its size for better or worse. It's the size of the whole world that we felt in the Van earthquake, the precious MPs. As you know, Van and Ercish were shaken by two major earthquakes last year, 700,000 people were left out. We needed a great economy to heal the wounds of this great disaster. A few hours after the earthquake, our Prime Minister was in the earthquake zone with his cabinet. On the second day of the earthquake, there were nearly 4,000 rescue workers. Soon, nearly 80,000 tents followed by 30,000 containers. Our Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Bashir Atalay and our ministers, have never left us alone. We've never left our people, our region, and we've been in the area for a long time.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0042par0309	Mr. Burhan, we were there.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0043par0310	We were there.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0041par0311	Dear MPs, in the first year of the earthquake, October 23, 2002...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0044par0312	You mean 2012.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0041par0313	...with the participation of our Prime Minister, we have delivered 15,340 permanent dwellings to our people.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0045par0314	But you arrested the mayors.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0041par0315	I give thanks to all who are there, to all who help us, to the opposition, to all Turkey. When construction is completed, it will be delivered to close to 30,000 landlords. Not just housing, but many schools, mosques, health clinics, and workplaces will be offered in the service of our people. Thousands of our tradesmen have received KOSGEB loans and continue to receive them. Dear lawmakers, in order to do such a big job, you have to be a great state, a great economy. With this big economy, we're building big metropoliss, big cities. As you know, with the new law, Van is now a city city. Van, with a population of 1,150,000, is a real and large metropolis with beauty of nature, geographical, strategic status and history. Van, the wonder of nature, is a cradle of civilization. Lake Van has seven Armenian churches on the island of Seven. There is literally a Seljucian civilization around Lake Van. The capital of the Unartu state, which extends its borders to Western Anatolia, is the name of Van (Tushba) and the historic Silk Road is passing through this region. Thus, the names of the two newly formed districts in the capital city of Van are,,,, and, Tushba. Its location is the borders of Iran, Iraq, Syria and Central Asian republics. It is also part of the most advantageous region in the 6th district as part of the new incentive. Therefore, investments in this region will provide very fast and profitable transformations. Therefore, we urge all investors to make their investments very quickly around this attraction center, around Lake Van, especially in the textiles we're building. Dear MPs, we've left behind the earthquake and all the disasters, and we want to leave it behind. From now on, we will move forward, and we will continue to raise Van, hopefully, just as we have raised Turkey in ten years, and I salute you all with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0046par0321	Thank you. Mehmet Mush, the 7th speaker, is an Istanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0047par0324	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Banking Editing and Control Agency in 2013. I salute your high council. In the country's economies, the existence of advanced and healthy financial markets is now inevitable, working with real markets to create a sustainable, significant growth and development trend. The crisis of trust in the financial markets, which form the main backbone of the banking sector, soon falls into the real sector, and the economic resession process, resulting in the waste of the country's resources. The global financial crisis, which took place in 2008 and continues, is the most concrete example. In financial markets, which have been deregulated by neglect of necessary audits and legal sanctions, there has been a major collapse in credits and over-results, regardless of whether the criteria are being met. The crisis, which soon influenced the real sector, has become global by crossing national borders. Prior to the AK PARTI rule, our country, which has had years of non-transparency, no specific system, easy to manipulate by various interests groups, is easily manipulated, is subject to arbitrary practices, and has experienced very closely the destructive effects of health-functioning financial markets. Precious lawmakers have found tens of billions of dollars in economic damage to the country in the process of February 28th, turning the Turkish banking sector into a sinking bank cemetery. The Banking Editing and Control Agency, which took place in August 2000, was established for decades to address structural problems in the banking sector. The institution's basic task is to ensure that the system works in good health by preventing banks, which have the most active size in the Turkish financial sector, from operating regularly and steadily, can cause significant damage to the economy. At a time when the global economy was improving, reforms following the 2001 banking crisis caused by the political and economic instability of Turkey's internal dynamics have now reached an active size of 48 banks of our banking sector and 1.2 trillion Turkish liras. The weaknesses faced by many developed countries' banking sectors have not even been an issue for the Turkish banking sector, thanks to measures and regulations taken in time. Dear lawmakers, in 2004, 2005 and 2006, the framework of regulation and control with banking regulations and reforms has been strengthened, and the Turkish banking sector has been fingered in the world thanks to measures taken in time. Our regulatory and audit framework has been raised to higher standards than international banking standards. According to international banking standards, capital efficiency, which should be at least 8 per cent, is set at 12 per cent in our banking sector. In the latest Financial Market Report, the financial crisis in the world has continued, but our banking sector's capital efficiency rasio has been announced 16.5 per cent, and none of our banks have been below 12 per cent of the minimum bank in the sector. The high-quality capital structure of the Turkish banking sector is pointed to the high quality capital structure of the sector, while the esteemed lawmakers are trying to close capital deficits in Europe. With Allah's permission, the EC PARTI will carry out the construction of the great Turkey, which will continue to implement policies and radical structural reforms that allow it to continue to develop with its country's support and with its well-equipped staff. I, with these feelings and thoughts, wish that our 2013 budget would bring blessings to our country, our nation, and once again I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0048par0332	Thank you. The last speaker is Enver Yilmaz, İstanbul MP. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE)
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0049par0334	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Capital Market Board in 2013. I salute your high council. As you know, last week, three days of intensive talks on the Capital Market Law were held under the roof of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Thus, with the contributions of ruling and opposition lawmakers, the 30-year SEC Law was adopted under the fast progress of the world. The SEC Act and regulations for the protection of investors' rights and for the first time, legal infrastructure for the establishment of the stock markets as an anonymous company has been established to ensure that the institutional investor sector becomes more competitive. With measures aimed at making the public process faster and easier, both Turkey's leading companies and the SMEs are intended to be encouraged to go public. There has been a significant increase in companies applying for the stock market as part of the IPO and IMKB's public supply campaign. Despite the world's financial crisis, the number of companies opened to the public was 22 in 2010, 27 in 2011 and 26 in 2012. The market value of our stock markets has increased by 10 times in ten years to $520 billion. The rapid rise in the stock market appears to have continued to increase with a grade increase. The second public supply of the Turkish Public Bank, which was held at a time when public supplies were coming to a standstill abroad, where European countries were in serious economic distress, is an example of the success of trust in our country's capital markets and the success of the public supply campaign. Despite the worldwide crisis in the capital markets, it is a pleasure to see that the number of companies in the IMKB has exceeded 400, with increased public supply in recent years, but the goal of public supply campaigning is to increase the number of companies in the stock market over a thousand in 2023, when our republic will be celebrated for the 100th year. We want our company to fund through the capital market, and we want the capital to spread to a wider base, and that's what we're doing. In order for the SME to benefit from the capital markets, last year, the Market of Developments was established within the stock market and the number of companies operating in the market increased to 11. This is the first time a foreign company's stock market has been processed by the SPK in a new statement aimed at boosting the integration of capital markets into global markets. Apart from the stock markets, the other important institutions brought to our country by the Capital Market Board are the Tradebank and Central Register Office. This system guarantees the savings of investors against the collapse and fraud of financial institutions. An area organised by the Capital Market Board is naturally a subsidiary. The total assets of subsidiary institutions, whose number is 101, are currently at 8.9 billion dollars. The main resources of the subsidiaries are $3 billion. Corporate investors are an important sector that the SEC has given our country. At the moment, the number of investment funds reaching 616 has reached $30 billion. The amount of pension funds reached 176 and reached $18 billion. The size of real estate investment partnerships with a number of 24 is $14 billion. As a result, the corporate management sector, which operates under the SEC, has a total portfolio value of investment funds and partnerships, approaching $65 billion. The new Capital Market Law, which aims to protect investors in the first place, will bring a wide range of changes to our capital markets. With capital market tools, exporters, financial reporting, independent control and rating, capital market activities, brokers and self-registers, institutional investors, audits and market sanctions can be raised under six main topics. The New Capital Market Law will help the market function in good health by responding better to the needs of our developing capital market. I once again thank those who have done their part in drafting the law, especially our Minister Ali Babacan, who wishes the new Capital Market Law and the 2013 budget to be good for our country, and I salute you and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0050par0347	Thank you. Ayla Akat, Batman MP on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0051par0350	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the Public Order and Security Undersecretary budget for the 2013 Central Management Budget Bill. I salute you all. Of course, with such an important budget being discussed, we also consider that we wish our living room were a little more full. Dear President, the undersecretary was founded on a mandate to develop policies and strategies for the fight against terrorism, to co-ordinate the relevant institutions and institutions, and to be linked to the Prime Minister on 8/7/2011. Of course, they have important duties, and most importantly, to coordinate intelligence information between the MIT, the police, the gendarmes. I talked about the same budget last year, on the institution's budget. We haven't met such a coordinate yet. The basic fact that still appears from our point of view is, is the MIT, the police, and the gendarme's intelligence watching us separately; no, is it still watching us from one hand? No, they're still watching with separate cameras, and we're guessing that the number of cameras, which was 5 last year, has gone up to 9 a.m. this year, Mr. Secretary. So which of these other intelligence agencies, we'd appreciate it if you'd share this with us, because there are media outlets in the local area that are watching us, but there are other surveillances that may or may be: is it possible that MIT, the police, and the police officers who are sending intelligence there are starting to appoint two of them, whether they're pulling or misdirecting someone who can't, we're calling them under the name of check? Of course, from our point of view, this mission is not yet complete, so it may have been set up for this purpose, but we can't say it was a coordinate. We still think there's a serious conflict between the MIT, the police and the gendarme's intelligence. Even though these are still -- even if they are equipped with super powers -- you need to remind the fact that there is no such coordination within your undersecretary, even after these institutions, your undersecretary, are still a serious lack of co-ordination, and this is reflected in the public at the time. Besides, the criminal complaint against the Undersecretary of MIT after Oslo's talks was probably triggered by certain hands within the state. At this point, it's not possible to say that the concept is not being dealt with on the right basis, or at the right level, by your side. Another dimension: not an independent intelligence unit, but of course all the institutions he's got in him are intelligence agencies, they're doing a study on the intelligence they've acquired, but we can't tell him the independence of it, because all the information is being passed on to Mr. Prime Minister. Even if the gendarme's intelligence is still reactive or does not show the necessary responsibility, it gives information directly to the Prime Minister, not independent, given that the police have been tasked with a number of very high powers on this issue, even if they have established policies. We think it's a serious addiction to the Prime Minister in this institution. This cannot only be assessed as the prime minister's responsibility from these institutions, they will, of course, inform the prime minister, but even issues that do not go to the judiciary are expressed to the term prime minister. If you remember, during the local government elections, Mr. Prime Minister said that the speech of Gültan Hanım tomorrow falls to the press, without even being brought to trial, not even to public opinion, and that a phone call made by our co-chair is being bugged and that information has been transferred to him. Another dimension: There is no operational activity related to security, and we ask ourselves, why is such a budget being transferred to an institution that has no operational activity? For example, there's no operational activity, there's over 90 personnel. What kind of economic input does this staff need, other than paying their wages? It doesn't need that kind of economic input from our point of view, but as a result, it's not just from its budget, it's also a budgetary institution. In fact, if you look inside of 2012 -- the budget of 2013 is already -- we're asking -- what is the work of this undersecretary in this covered grant? Oh, yes, we have some ideas, Mr. Secretary, as to what this undersecretary is doing. Probably these wiretaps... every wiretap probably requires an economy, and it also requires a staff. He's got a staff supply, he's got police intelligence, he's got a staff supply for the gendarme intelligence. At the same time, they work day and night. We see from the notes that we get, we can talk at night, we can talk at day, we can talk at home, we can talk at home, we can talk at the park, we can talk at the party. Now, when that happens, of course, it's probably necessary to keep the staff that's going to be so tired. Every study needs to have a staff. You didn't get 90 or so. We also believe that a large portion of the budget is earmarked because if there is no operational activity, where will the money go? We'd appreciate it if Mr. Secretary would enlighten us on this matter. The budget wasn't enough, look, the budget for the Undersecretary isn't enough, and it's being taken from a covered grant, and there's no operational activity. We'd be happy if you'd share those answers with us, with the public, Mr. Secretary. And there's also a joint agency that's been established as an undersecretary of the Anti-Terror Coordination Board. Now, in order for this Anti-Terror Co-ordination Council to function once, Turkey needs a truly serious, nationally acceptable definition of terrorism. Otherwise, as it is today, Minister, we are number one. We would like Turkey to be number one in freedom of thought, freedom of expression, freedom of organization in the world, but because we use freedom of expression, we are number 1 in the ranking of countries in the world who are tried as terrorists for using freedom of organization. So, when it's this clear, clear, and in the middle, this undersecretary has it figured out, so the information you've acquired today is clear, it's obvious. Everyone from student to journalist, health worker to educator, politician to street walker can be judged as such. Of course, there's also a question of legitimacy in society. So there are some adjectives. Despite its location, it is clear who it is who it is who it is that it is who's the manager, but it also opens the way for the community to remain silent under the name of Ergenekon. Now, from here, we think that if this area, if the most important mission of our undersecretary, in the field of counterterrorism, is to create policy and strategy by doing research, analysis, monitoring, evaluations, then its greatest service should be a new definition of terrorism. This could pave the way for improvements in lower-law norms, and perhaps help with some of the new constitutional studies. Of course, we face the fact that these policies and strategies, these policies and strategies, are being produced, in the political genocide operations under the name of the KCK, which are specifically targeted by our party's organizational activities. Mr. Minister, in February, we learned the indictment of the 5th TK operation in Batman province in the first place last month. The indictment says: 1) Taking care of the funerals, setting up tents, offering condolences to the families. 2) Building commissions in neighborhoods, operating. 3) In this sense, making a press release, making studies to inform the public. Now, being a political party has its basic practices. If the Law of Political Parties in Turkey has been put on the shelf, tell us this, and we'll know it, and we'll set up a strategy based on it, but you'll accept it as a political party, and you'll say, in a constitutional sense, you can't even do a press release. You can't even offer condolences to your citizen, to your own constituency. Leave him alone, you can't try to organize. Mr. Minister, let's be clear, so if there is a law and there is a rule of law, our charter has passed through the Supreme Court and there it says: "Yes, BDP can form parliaments; it can build city councils; it can build neighborhood councils; it can build street councils." But now we're learning from the last operation, the operation was carried out five days ago in Batman. 31 people were arrested. Last year, October 2010, we had our last convention, we had an operation in February, and then we had another operation in our municipality and some of our friends were arrested. With this operation, we have a backup, noble, audit, discipline, a total of two friends left. Now, we're protecting those two friends, of course, and we're going to the new convention, but the next thing we know, there's lines at the gate of the county, and people come in and we want to volunteer to run the political party. Just so you know, work on your strategy. Yıldız Aktaş, Mahmut Kaygusiz, Ayşe Algat, Abdulmenaf Eripek, Şükrü Tapkan, Mehmet Zeki Tangüner, Medeni Algat. Our star Aktaş central executive board member came to Batman after the operation was launched in Batman. All my friends, whose other name I'm counting, are county managers. They all sat down together, and after the operation, they discussed what would be the distribution of duty in the county, whether it would be an appointment or a convention. Our city administration, our county building, has been bugged, and after the wiretap, the labeled town council meeting. Minister, I think you need our information on this matter. Now, this undersecretary, one, has become the undersecretary of control of society, intimidation, rustization, monotype, creating a frightened society and planning. We said it last year, there's no need for that kind of undersecretary. There's no coordination between intelligence agencies, no politics, no strategy. Another dimension: For years, society has been pushed into mistrust under the name of security. What kind of person trusts this community? Is there anyone in this community who can be trusted, no matter what part of society they are? Isn't anyone who wants to create a peace, a place of trust made a target? He's on his way. Then we believe that this strategy, this policy, where knowledge, free thought, and creativity are being tried to be controlled, should not be the human mind. If this is the country's truth, and some strategies and policies are to be produced in accordance with the reality of this country, it has to be rational, rational, right, right. If you call them city councils for a new operational reason, which we need to create by our charter, and after that, we're going to create it -- there's only one fact: you're thinking, the opposition, the project he's set out to be accepted in society, or maybe you're trying to create a sense of threat in society, the project that will guide you at the point of a new operation. Mr. Minister, the point of operations under the name "KCK" is division of society, polarization of society, dissension of society, dissension of society. If you insist and continue at this point, there's only one thing we can say, Amenna! No one is alternative. We'll discuss it, and we'll sit down and discuss it with you. We've been arguing over how many years there might be a solution here, but the political process you've been involved in since April 2009, and the practice you've been involved in since April 14th is not right, it's not rational, it's not rational. If society is to be left without politics, if politics are to be neutralized, one, the BDP has made its decision here, not without politics, nor will it be weak; two, if you neutralize politics, you refer to vehicles other than politics. Then you'll go out and give the public the right information. We refer to non-political methods because we see politicians as a target and we judge them. And from these trials, we're hiding the results from the public. We're arresting and arresting journalists who give public information about this. We target NGOs that produce scientific work on the subject. Well, what's the outcome, Mr. Secretary, I'll just say it and finish it. Our sixteen-year-old daughter, Barýþ, was taken into custody three years ago. We met with his parents when he first started working. I told him you're 16 years old, Batman High 1st. He said he wanted to be in the study. He was later taken into custody and released because he was underage. Then he was taken again, then released because he was a victim of TMK. In his last trial, I visited him in İstanbul Bakırköy Prison. He said: Mr. Deputy, go and tell the politicians. My mother told me that you're my daughter, you're the school number one, you're Batman High 1st; read. So I said, "Mom, what am I going to be?" You become a professor, you become a deputy, you become a journalist, you become a lawyer, you become a doctor. Now, I'm in Copperville Prison. Our former MP, Fatma Survivan, is with me -- for then -- Prof. Dr. Ersan is with me. There are reporters, they're all -- 30 or so -- with me. In Ankara, health students are under arrest, and like me, they are political hostages. There are numerous operations against KESK, which are being judged. There is only one thing to say in this case: Social opposition is made a threat to all prisons, and it is not possible for everyone to maintain social peace. This mind is not a right mind. We need to get out of this as soon as possible. Since this undersecretary failed to carry out its duties, it does not need to be separated by taxes collected from the people. It has to be closed on this condition. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0052par0376	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the second speaker is Adil Kurt, Hakkari MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0053par0378	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the budget of the President of Disaster and Emergency Management. I salute the High Council. Turkey, along with its geological properties, is a country where natural disasters are very common with climate, topography and geographical structure. The most common of disasters are the earthquakes, as we know. In different geographys, according to climate variations, disasters such as landslides, floods, fires, storms, and avalanches also occur in our country. But, especially in our geography, where disasters are so common, there's no way that we're getting out of traditional ways to develop counter-facts. When we consider that only 5 per cent of the 16 million dwellings in our country are insured under mandatory earthquake insurance, it is true that there is a serious lack of awareness of citizens' awareness of disasters, especially earthquakes. In Turkey, the picture that emerged from the earthquake zone map is also frightening in that sense. Ninety-six per cent of Turkey's territory is at risk of earthquakes at various levels, and 98 per cent of its population is seen to live in these areas. Thus, as we continue to live in such a grave picture, the state must take effective measures against earthquakes, against natural disasters, against the awareness of citizens and the development of measures. A few days ago, examples of an earthquake in Japan were given, and the media did a lot of work. Interestingly, for example, an earthquake at 7.3 caused only nine citizens to be injured -- because of panic. Earthquakes in our country around 7 or even 6 have resulted in people's deaths. Why is it happening? So is Turkey's geographical ground much more risky than Japan's? It's not. Their sense of caution, their perception, is based on modern understanding, and they've developed their precautions. As for us, unfortunately, from the central government to the local authorities, it shows that there is no precautionary development policy on this issue. And when you think about it in front of this institution -- and when you think about it in terms of AFAD -- we're talking about the current staff structure, the capacity to intervene in extraordinary situations, and when you evaluate them all together, we're talking about an institution with a name. The institution's understanding of the prevention of earthquakes or natural disasters is to keep the tent and blanket ready. As a state, we can only give citizens tents, blankets, so, on the basis of charity, we can give them hot bread and feed them. This is an extraordinary development for us. If you say so, you are lacking. Mr. Elitaş is here. In fact, a sentence from his speech on the overall budget sums up the government's approach to these issues in a way. What was he saying? He said that every citizen is asking us for an imam, every citizen is asking us for an imam to his village. Why? He's explaining it. I mean, it's not a one-on-one sentence, it's in the transcripts. Because when you're born, our citizens care that you have a midwife to escort the birth, they care that you have an imam to wash their funerals when they die. So it's just a sense of state that deals with the birth of a citizen, with his death. By the way, there's no sense of government, no sense of government to build a citizen's safe life. Citizen born and dead, that's all. What kind of life did he lead, what was his safety? These people don't have any sense of government that has anything to do with it. We need to get out of here. We care about AFAD, especially as an institution, you put it as a template, we care about it. It's how you fill it. Once you can't fill it, the existence of this institution, the absence of it, changes nothing. There is no difference between AFAD (AFAD) and Kızılay in the present, just a difference in coordination with the transfer of tents or co-ordination ease... Other than that, AFAD has no job, no function. In this institution, we need to develop a policy of employment in accordance with a serious restructuring and position. They don't exist. Now, this policy, which has been developed on the approach to wrap it up, must be abandoned immediately. I was a guest at a citizen's home in Germany, Minister. I asked: "How old is this building? It's 100 years old. I said, "Aa, it's a very old building." He said, "Why do you call this building old?" Because we have a 50-year-old building that's going down, that's why I said that. No, here is the 100-year-old building, 150-year-old building, which is the new building. If you can remove a piece of concrete from our wall, if you can remove plaster, this building is old. You can't because we're making it solid, we're building it basically solid. He said. Our 20-year-old building is a solid building? I wasn't going to, but when we talk, we have to come in. For example, Van... our stately preparedness for natural disasters emerges in the profile there, the Bayram Hotel profile. When you make up the material, when you build a glass wall on the outside, we're protected. I'm afraid not, we're not protected. To destroy what is available is also an important measure of self-restraint to go to a improvement in the development of the new structure, just by weighting urban transformation policy, but a serious policy on improving what is available needs to be developed. And finally, let me put it this way: we've been talking here all the time for two years. Government officials, ruling party officials have always denied us about this, but the final, especially as a member of the Plan and Budget Commission, including the Foreign Minister, I have seen at least 10 ministers build their policies, propaganda on the Van earthquake and later developments, and I have witnessed the proceedings. But the last time a minister returned the right, he told the truth. In particular, Van admitted that the government did not apply the earthquake law, the Natural Disaster Law -- the 1959 earthquake -- as a result of this earthquake. What was that? Now, that law says that the earthquake-infested region and the earthquake zone divide the disaster zone and the disaster-infested region. Van was a disaster zone, that's the definition of the law, but the government was never involved. It's more like he brought the job to demagogue with a disaster zone ad, and the policy of reproducing all the rhetoric against it... Finally, I'm going to say -- I'm going to end it in the words of our Minister of Environment and Urbanism: "Friends, we, of course, will not go in there." There's a right to be exposed, to be declared a disaster zone or something like that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Despite the fact that we have always brought to your attention our findings and our segregations on the subject of this disaster, in response to all denial, rejection policy, a joyful, discreet voice came out of the government, saying, "This is true, this criticism is right." So in my speech, I chose not to talk too much about the Van specific and to share with you the general definitions. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0054par0394	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the final speaker is Altan Tan, Diyarbakır MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0055par0397	Mr. President, members of parliament, I'm starting to call you MPs, of course, but unfortunately, there's not 95 percent of Parliament here, especially not members of the Justice and Development Party. Surely the Lord of the Worlds has given all knowledge, and has put it in their breasts, and they do not need to hear. Those who have already listened... those who do not accept... are accepted. Or not. They say what they want, they have no purpose. Anyway, let's start talking to the General Assembly again. Is there anything wrong with what I said? If you have it, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0056par0399	There's usually two people there, but they're here today anyway.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0055par0400	Yes, my dear friends, today I have taken a pledge on the budget of the President of the Religious Affairs, the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Community, the President of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency. Last year, I had a long, detailed conversation about the chairmanship of Religious Affairs -- and I had more time. Starting with the history of religion, from Christianity, from Judaism, from the position of sheikulism, here, from Byzantine relations of the Byzantine state, from Byzantine Republic of Turkey to Ottomans, from Ottomans to Turkish Republic. At that time, however, the answers given by our Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the Diabetes, who had also graduated from the seminary, were even simpler and more irrelevant than the answers given by an imam-responsive student. I don't want to go into all this stuff because I have a limited time today and I need to talk about other things. Just a brief summary, and I'd like to end my conversation with the touching, so to speak. Dear friends, there's been a lot of talk about religion. First and most importantly, when I get a chance to talk about this at almost every opportunity, I say that religion is not at the government's disposal. There are four or five professors of theology I know in the EC PARTI, including the other members of the government, including the Deputy Prime Minister, including professors of professors and doctors. The professors of theology, I'm speaking to all the friends who've been trained to say, "Come, come out and say, if you can say that religion may be under the government's law of Islam." If you can say that, be it lawful, the rest is a myth, demagogy is a punctuation, and I'll say it in three languages. That is the first great sin. In secular governance, religion does not belong to the state, neither in an Islamic government that has a religious basis for reference. So is this Imamazam, according to Abu Hanife, and according to Imam Malik, and according to Imam Shafii, and according to Imam Hanbel, and according to Imam Jafer, and according to the 12 Imamites. If anyone claims otherwise, let them come forward and say otherwise. Abu Hanife of Imamaazam stood up to Abbasi caliph, a bearded man, a pendejo, who prayed five times in prayer, and died in torture. So, why don't you autonomize this Diet or leave religion to civil society? Speaking of which, I also have a criticism for CHP. Every chance they get, they say this AK PARTY has a secret agenda. These are the lawmakers, these are religious people, they want to establish a theocratic government. They have no concern about forming a religious government, building an Islamic government, no concerns about building a liberal democratic democracy, because if they had a claim to establish an Islamic government, the first thing they would have done was to free religion again, if they wanted to establish a liberal democratic legal system, they would still have to sever the bond of religion, separate religion, leave religious affairs to civil society. There is never such a thing, you criticize it in the wrong place, and with this wrong way of criticizing it, you make it stronger when you're constantly trying to weaken power. I'd appreciate it if you'd consider this a warning. Dear friends, why does the dianetite need to be left in the civilian area? Like I said, I told you last year with all the historical references, I'm not going to repeat it this year. But today, the president of the Religious Affairs is under the control of deep structures more than the National Intelligence Agency, the National Security Council, the General Staff's military intelligence -- in a nail. And as a matter of fact, before and after September 12th, a president of the Dianet Affairs, who was said to have very close ties with the National Intelligence Agency and even had an employee, brought his night into the day and day to strengthen the national religious structures against the national opinion and other structures at the time of the organisation of all the Islamic councils and organisations in Europe. We ask at this point: If this Religion is not in a line of Turkish Islamists and Hanefi, why don't our citizens of Alevi have demands? Two: We have Shiite citizens in Turkey, especially the Iğdır region. Why aren't the Religious Affairs working on these things, depending on the Jafari sect? And again, there's an important Shafii population in Turkey, why doesn't it work on them? I'm giving you questions, and the answers are a celebration to the houses: "Sir, we're not looking at Shafii, Hanefi, Maliki when we're giving a fatwa, we're answering the question of the citizen by studying all the sects. We ask: "Can you preach in Kurdish in mosques? " Again, there is no proper answer. Brother, if you speak in the name of Islam, you say it can or cannot be given. Wheresoever he is given, how he shall be given, and how he shall be given. This is a separate issue of discussion.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0057par0407	He says that on behalf of the government.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0055par0408	I'm afraid there's no proper answer to that either. Dear friends, it has come to such a point that there has often been a repetitive mention in the press lately:...Dindar Kemalism.... and if friends agree to this, let them say they did, if they refuse, go out and explain to us what the religious, secular, liberal, world-approved law-ordinance relations are like, come and explain it to us. Words games, demagogues, puns don't solve anything. We're really sick and tired of this stuff. Dear friends, I'd like to say a few words about the Turkish abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives. Now, for once, the name of the organization is controversial, the international Turks..... who is the Turk? Sir, a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. In fact, when we say Turkish, we refer to all our citizens, who have a common background on all these lands, regardless of their ethnic, racial origins. That's what they've been saying, and we've been objecting to it for years. Let's think about what you're saying for a moment. So, if you're doing all this work, all the citizens in Turkey, the citizens of the Republic of Turkey, the Turks, the Kurds, the Arabs, the Serbians, the Lazlar, the Pomaks, all of whom you consider to be Turkish citizens of the Republic of Turkey and culturally, are your activities abroad in this framework? You're looking back, you're going back to work, here's the story of the Prime Minister's speech on the budget, and there's a lot of talk about studies, restorations, renovations, courses, film festivals, documentaries. You see, you have nothing to do with Kurds, Arabs, Suryans in Turkey, which you consider Turkish as a citizen of the Republic of Turkey and in a nail. Why not? And that's where the trick, the trick, the Kurdish Mehmet watch; it wasn't like that again; it wasn't like that, but we said, "We didn't do this, but we did this." 300 students only study in Turkology in Skopje. That's in your statement. So, what about the Kurds, what work do you have? Is there anything in Erbil, and in Solomonia, and in Hamishli? No. In Turkey, the University of Artuklu is opening a test to raise 500 Kurdish teachers, including the knowledge of the YOK. He meets with the Ministry of National Education, meets with the President of the Education and Discipline Board, prepares a textbook every three months, prepares a perfect book in Kurmanci and Zazaki dialects, both of which present the President of the Board of Education and the Board of Discipline and what he's told him is: "Take as many students as you can to raise teachers." He opens a test by announcing that he will receive 500 people, but before the exams are finalized, the ACJ reduces it to 250 · Global Voices in July. On the other hand, it allows 300 students to study in Turkology in Skopje. Let him provide it everywhere, but if there is a brotherhood, a law, a union, let him give it to everyone without calling it Turkish, Kurdish, Arab, Muslim, non-Muslim, Alevi, Sunni. And one of the most important problems is friends, the Turkish people who live outside Turkey, the Turks, as you call them, in Turkish terms, with Kurdish, with Arab, with Alevi, with Sunni, with their religious, with their secular people. We're all going abroad from China to America, from Russia to South Africa. There are citizens of the Republic of Turkey all over the world right now, and they have huge problems; they have social problems, they have economic problems, they have commercial problems, they have cultural problems, they have legal problems. They both have serious problems with the countries they live in, and they have serious problems with their relationship with Turkey about the motherland, about all these issues I'm counting one by one. Is there a government mind that's interested in these things? You can't knock on a lot of embassies, you can't knock on a lot of consulates' doors, you're regretting knocking. In Uzbekistan, with a commercial delegation leaving Diyarbakır, we visited the embassy's economic advisorship -- and there is now an AK PARTİ MP in this visiting delegation; neither of us was an MP at the time, you can ask him -- we regretted our future. So what he's telling us is: Aman, you'd better not come here. So come, do this; do this; do this; this is the challenge; this is the easy thing; we can provide these things; instead of saying, "Why did you come here?" we're almost faced with the treatment. Likewise, with that fellow member of the EC PARTY, we went to Egypt again with a delegation of dignitaries. Dear friends, we haven't been able to locate economic guidance. We couldn't reach the ground for two days. The last time, just before the plane left, we cut off the plane, and went back again, and tried to find it by 20 - 30 phone calls, and tried to find it. The gentleman didn't bother to come from the southeast and say, "Welcome to the hotel." He didn't even say. Now, there are serious problems; there are problems with assimilation, there are cultural problems, there are language problems, there are serious problems with the punishments they've been doing, there are, there are... So, what do these organizations do? It's just ideological, show-of-the-art activities, and there's no serious work to be done beyond them. So, I would like to say that we will vote on these budgets for all these problems, all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit01spe0058par0421	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0058par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We will continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Act in 2013 and with the Central Management Act in 2011. The commission and the government are in place. Now, in the third round, Mesut Dedeoğlu, the deputy of Kahramanmarash who asked for the National Movement Party Group to speak for him.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0059par0006	Mr. President, as part of the Central Management Budget Bill of 2013, I have been promised by the National Party for Action on the budgets of the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security and the President of Disaster and Emergency Management. I hereby salute your high council. Members of parliament, the Central Budget Bill of 2013 is the 11th budget of the AKP government. Budgets show how much the government has invested in what areas and how much resources it will provide to which areas. The 11th budget of the AKP government is fully prepared for tax-based resources, just like its previous budgets. The government plans to provide these resources by giving rise to many products that society uses daily. At the top of the government's revenue sources, fuel increases are ranked number 1. For this reason, Turkey has been using the world's most expensive fuel for the past ten years. The AKP has raised its power to $4.76 after the recent increase in gas, which is $1.6 in 2002. The government has not only increased fuel, but has continued to increase and increase many products before and after the budget. The government has made it a habit of putting budget deficits on citizens' backs by raising them. High rates of increase before and after the budget are also a clear indicator. The government has increased power prices by 21 per cent in 2012, natural gas prices by 29.3 per cent and LPG prices by 25.9 per cent in 2012, due to a lack of budget balances. Augmenting taxes from motor vehicles, the government redesigned 16.5 per thousand of the fees taken from the property transactions to 20 per thousand. All these increases were soon reflected in the market and increased prices. Mr. President, in this budget, as in the past budgets, the government has forgotten the worker, the officer, the pensioner, the business owner, the farmer, the minimum wage, and the low-income. In this case, investments in the province of Kahramanmarash, which have been slow for years, will not be completed due to resource shortages in 2013. Heromarash is awaiting state investment. The heromarash is waiting to be remembered by the state. The wrong economic policies imposed by the government continue to increase the number of people living under the border of hunger and poverty in our country. The majority of workers and pensioners, especially minimum wagers, have been condemned to live below the age of starvation. With this happening in our country in economics, the wrong policies followed by the AKP government continue to make terrorism the most important issue of our country. In 2010, the government established the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, as part of the Ministry of Interior, on the grounds that there was no co-ordination between anti-terrorism agencies. The government stated that they intended to work efficiently on terrorism by referring to the lack of co-ordinatorship as the basis of the bill he had drafted at the time. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have found their current agency, which has worked for almost eight years, inefficient. The Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, which was first established in 2010 under the Ministry of Interior, was later linked to the Prime Minister in 2011. Public Order and Security stand before us as a very important need for growing terrorist incidents in our country every year. This institution is really taking on a great deal of work in our country. There is a great public expectation that the government should run this institution more effectively, but the government's preference to negotiate rather than fight terrorism has soon disappointed these expectations. The policies the government has launched on the opening and the road he has followed have escalated terrorism. The government, which stepped down from each pre-election opening policy, continued its post-election re-opening policies after receiving the voter's vote. Following the opening policies are taking Turkey step by step to divide it. Our citizens are uncomfortable with these opening policies. At this point, the decision by the government to choose a debate over terrorism has not ended separatist terrorism in our country, on the contrary, has increased terrorism. That is what research shows. Unfortunately, a total of 1,163 of our security officers in the last ten years have been killed in treason by our separatist terrorist organization. Our country continues to pay heavy prices for terrorism. Publicisation policies have taken Turkey to an even worse point in terrorism. The government must launch a more effective fight against separatist terrorism immediately. Terror must be ended, the country must be restored to peace and trust, and it must be ensured. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in this part of my speech, I'd like to address the budget for the President of Disaster and Emergency Management. In our country, catastrophes such as landslides, earthquakes, floods often occur, and many lives and possessions have been lost. The number of cities in our country are already located on the earthquake belt as a geographical location. One of these provinces is Kahramanmarash. The earthquakes that have occurred in our country so far have caused a great deal of loss of life and property. Therefore, disaster and emergency services are of great importance in our country. These services must be provided as quickly as possible with advanced manpower and modern tools. The chairmanship of disaster and emergency management was established in accordance with the Law on the Offices and Missions of the President of Disaster and Emergency Management 5902. Turkey's General Directorate of Emergency Management, the Ministry of Interior Civil Defence General Directorate and the Ministry of Public Works and Housing Office have been eliminated by Article 18 of the same law and has been replaced by a state disaster and emergency directorate. Mr. President, there are a number of difficulties among the employees of these two institutions, which are almost the same goal. One of the major problems with staff, whose roots are old and whose organization is new, is that the institution works physically separately, depending on the disaster and emergency department. The fact that these offices are part of a financial and private administration has brought many difficulties. According to Law 5902, employees who work under the disaster and emergency directorate are covered by the budget of the President of Disaster and Emergency Management, while their expenses are covered by the state's private administration budget. According to this law, private administrations must also give social benefits to their staff to personnel who work for the disaster and emergency department. Problems in this matter have also been moved to the judiciary. The rise in the mission has not been done in this institution, as has been done in many institutions. Some officers who work at this institution receive special fees while staff working in the general management service class are deprived of that fee. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we view the government's 2013 budget as a budget that can't solve problems in our country, can't provide investment and employment. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0060par0023	Thank you. Mustafa Erdem, the 2nd speaker on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, is Ankara MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0061par0027	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to explain the views of the National Movement Party on the budget of our President of the Religious Affairs. I salute you all. Our Ministry of Religious Affairs is a great institution that has established the spiritual structure of the Turkish community since the day it became a Muslim, which has ensured its happiness in the world and the afterlife, and has also taken over the Ottoman state during our reign. According to the Republic of Turkey, which we are honored to be and to be a member of today, the presidency of the Religious Affairs was established on the same day that it was founded, as its current representative of the ruling office to carry out the same function. Members of parliament, the will to establish the republic, the will to establish the state, the spirit of the State, the social, cultural, religious, even demographic structure of our presidency in the circumstances of that day, has removed its structural form today, and has established the values that will forever be the basis of the Turkish society. On the days when our Ministry of Religious Affairs was established, it is extremely important to the community how important it is to be one of the two prime ministers, as well as to be one of the two presidents. Because this institution, which has been tasked to solve and conduct the needs of society of faith, worship and morality, by preparing important resources from the state budget before the Chief of Staff, will continue to be extremely important and important to the Turkish nation today, who is in a desire to wait. St. Lawmakers, our President of Religious Affairs today has taken on an important task and responsibility to meet the needs of the people who are hungry for the dignity of the Turkish nation, the dignity of the Republic of Turkey, and the faith -- not only in Turkey, but also outside Turkey. Today, our President of Religious Affairs is also taking on an important task and responsibility for performing and representing our state in places where no state institution has access to the Republic of Turkey, and no state officials have. On the days of the establishment, our Ministry of Religious Affairs has brought to our day two remarkable works, so that mankind can be enlightened in religion, to be rid of superstition, superstition, and ignorance, and even today, our President of Religious Affairs has failed to produce the likes of them. Kamil Heritage and Ahmed Naim, which our teachers prepared, the translation of Tegrid-i Sarih/ Sahih/i Buhari-i Yazhir, and the one written by the late Hamdi Yazr, is still a means of pride and pride in having the works of that period, which even our professors of theology failed to produce. In order to meet the needs of the community, I would like to remind you that in the statement of the late Ahmet Hamdi Yazr., the late Ahmet Hamdi Yazir, we still have to think that a camel should not be driven along the railway and that today's human needs must contribute to the solution of the religious problems he faces. Likewise, in the words of the late Aqif, we have a great task and responsibility on the shoulders of our rulers to present Islam to the understanding of the century by taking inspiration directly from the Quran to the truth. Thus, to be successful in this regard, to be able to offer the information our people need, and to address the spiritual problems they face, our Ministry of Religious Affairs budget is not at this level, but also more than that, and must be provided for them. Our religious officials are model people of society, exemplary people, and the people who followed them have always had hope and expectation that both the world and the next will be successful. Therefore, it is not for our religious officers to be educated, to be educated, to be sent abroad, to be sent abroad, to be sent to France, to those who know English, to Germany, to whomever they truly are to serve, but to be assigned to those who know the language, the religion of that society, I believe, to prove the greatness of Islam in this world of interfaith. St. Lawmakers, if our President of Religious Affairs is going to be a model for humanity as of today's possibilities, they need to feel that they are models at this point. It seems to me, sadly, that today, the appointments made in our Ministry of Religious Affairs, that in some way, the right to serve, justice, righteousness, and rights are ignored... that those who need to teach others the moral responsibility must first be sensitive about it. I don't know how much it fits with the measure of justice that our muftus have come to the center of justice, but I'm sure it makes me sad that after two years of organization law change, it makes everyone who has fear of God tremble in his heart, not just in a institution where the financial rights of those who can be head of the agency have been ignored by commission. Congressmans, there's been another practice in the near future in our Ministry of Religious Affairs. Within this month, our chiefs and ministers are concerned about being sent away under rotation. At the very least, I would like to remind you that because of the winter conditions and the weather opposition, if this is going to be a rotation, those people are going to be moved to a more convenient time, given their families, their children, and the circumstances of their lives, I think it's a matter for the authorities and their influence to take into account and ignore the organization. Very saintly guests, precious guests, beloved MPs, and I want you to remember that religion is an important institution. The importance of diabetes is proportional to the fact that it's a place of honor. So, our friends in the Ministry of Religious Affairs... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I urge the officers to fear God first, then to be conscious of serving his state and his nation, and thereby to take over the Dianet, and to salute your great coven with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0062par0041	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the third speaker is Reşat Right, Khakat MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0063par0044	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have taken a pledge on the budget of TİKA and the President of the Foreign Turks and the Associations of Relatives. I salute the High Council. More than 250-300 million Turks live in the world outside Turkey. About 3.5 million of these living populations are citizens of the Republic of Turkey. Therefore, with the TİKA (TİKA), the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys has to work very hard on this population, to address the problems. We expect the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, founded on 24 March 2010, to be more active, even though he had done important work from the day he was founded. This presidency, like TİKA, should open offices abroad and be with our citizens. I appreciate the meetings held in Ankara on June 7th, 2011, with Turkish NGOs living abroad, as well as the meetings they held in Germany for the 50th year of migration, and with the work they did in the Balkans, and I find it positive. Such meetings should be invited, not only to specific think groups, but also to be given the right to speak, to cooperate. Turkish federations in European countries must also be called to these meetings, dealt with because Turkish feders have done very important services in Europe and continue to do so. Overland, especially in Europe, Turkish youths have huge problems. They need to be trained to have national and spiritual values. Besides, our young people must be brought to our country to know and love our country and values. Today we have young people abroad who don't know who they are, who don't know what they are, who don't know what they are. The government doesn't take care of them. Also, drug addiction in European Turkish youth, particularly drugs, is increasing day by day. In the years to come, this problem can reach many different dimensions. I'm asking the government, how many Turkish citizens are currently in European prisons? For what crimes are these found in prisons? That's what we want to know. Hence, we must take care of their families and children. In addition, the important fact is, lawmakers: When young people in prison for drug crimes in Europe are sent to Turkey, they send them to their villages, and they infect people with that infectious disease like a time bomb, it should be noted. There is also the Office of the International Office of Students for co-ordinating students from abroad. This presidency should adopt and protect these students, who are our guests, in the form of a family home. Not just to increase their numbers, but to be given new opportunities, to establish good relations with them, to be loved by our country and people. Members of parliament, there are Turks living outside of Ataturk (Turkey). The Republic of Turkey should establish relations with them as a state and be prepared for developments there. Ataturk's goal is one of the most important issues of our country, the issue of the foreign Turks that the late Prime Minister Alpaslan Türkesh entrusted to the ecclesiastical authorities. In addition to six independent states outside Turkey, many countries live with Turks on their borders, so it should be the duty of governments to take care of these areas. If interest in the European Union, the Western Union, was shown to the Turkish world in a real way, the world's axis would change, but it's not done, it's all done for the West, for the West. Turkish states gained independence in Central Asia as a result of the dissolution of the Soviet Union. As a result of independence, Turkey established close ties with those countries, primarily with various institutions such as TİKA. TİKA has also performed very important tasks since its establishment, but in recent years, a change of direction has been made with the AKP government, as well as openings to Africa and Asia, but the aim of TİKA is to develop relations with the Turkish world, not to be forgotten. Twenty years of independence is not a long time, so there is much work to be done in the Turkish world. Given the situation of people in the Turkish world, there are many issues involved in TİKA's duties. The people of Turkish states are very poor, some countries' wealth has not yet been reflected in the public. Projects for the public must be brought, be with them. Common history, literature, language studies must be done. For example, in the Turkish world, there are schools that belong to the Ministry of National Education. The physical position of schools is very inadequate. Fifteen to twenty years of computers, poorly trained labs, I'm afraid. THIS is where TİKA (TİKA) is assigned. All schools in the Turkish world must be renovated by TİKA, equipped with all technological tools that are age-appropriate. Those children are our children, and the nation is our nation, and we can't leave them alone with their fate. Members of parliament, Stalin took the Turks of Ahıska, who lived in the Ahilkelek districts of Georgia in 1944, and distributed them in various parts of Russia. The humble Turk has not returned to his native land; he is scattered, unidentified, in many parts of Central Asia. Even in 2012, these people are still suffering. But these people are our brothers, so why don't we help these people get back to their homeland? Because of Georgia's assurance to the Council of Europe, how many people have benefited from the return, how many have returned to their homeland? Unfortunately, there is no turning back because the government of the Republic of Turkey has not shown that support. The AK PARTI government did not claim the Ahiska Turks, it did not support the return to the Ahiska region. However, if part of the support for the Crimean Turks had been given to the people of this region, the Land Society would have sent the Athletics back there. That's not how it happened, it's just that the Turks of Sasquatch are unclaimed. In Iraq, the Turkmen are also undocumented. In 2003, the invasion of Iraq by the United States and coalition forces causes Turks to lose every day. Kerükük, Telafer, and Tuzhurmatu. In Tuzhurmatu, the pessimarchs even painted the hepmerge flag on Mount Musa Ali, which the Turks considered sacred, and the people were very nervous. Recently, there have been many problems between the Iraqi central government and the follow-up. As a result, tension between the Iraqi army and its angular forces is under way. This can be prevented by certain powers to the Turkmen, at the point of improving the condition of the people there. From Turkmen, security forces from the region's people can provide security in the region. Kerkok has been a Turkish city for hundreds of years, and no one, no one, should forget it. Under the Arab-Kurdish conflict in Iraq, there is an effort to get more out of Kerkuk oil wealth. Barzani is not Turkey's friend, he keeps his own interests above all else. The Ovaköy border crossing, which Turkey has been demanding to open for years, does not want to be opened. The Ovaköy gate is the shortest route to the Turkmen region, Musul and Kerkuk. However, according to an interesting government protocol, the second border will be opened in the hepmerge region 20km from Ovaköy. Besides, it's interesting, because the U.S. wants it, there's an oil deal with them. Turkmen and Arabs are being excluded. Turkmen are forced to be with the angers, to act together. That's not true. The Iraqi Turks are our brothers who must be taken care of at all costs. Members of parliament, what happened in East Turkistan must also be the top topics in the Turkish world. China is implementing violent policies against the Uyghurs to keep East Turkistan in its sovereignty. Education policies are being implemented to destroy Turkishness, to make it Chinese. The Chinese language is obligatory. Uygur cultural values have been tried to weaken. The Chinese were placed in the Sincan Uygur region, trying to break down the population density, demographic structure. The Uygur Turks are being pressured every day. Turkey has not claimed the Turks of East Turkistan, and has not announced their injustices to the world in sufficient public. Besides, Rabia Kadir, leader of East Turkistan's exile, has been denied entry into our country. Japan is holding conferences on East Turkistan, and leaders from all over the world are invited. We, as a government, don't attend those meetings, and we don't even allow their leaders to come to our country. That's not true. There are many problems throughout the Turkish world. Today, Azerbaijan-Turkey relations are not normal. Azerbaijan territory is occupied. Turkey should tell the world about this, help the Turks of Azerbaijan. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0064par0065	Thank you. The fourth speaker is Sumer Oral, Manisa MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0065par0068	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party on budgetary bills of 2013. Mr. President and the esteemed MPs, I salute you all. The fragile structure of the global economy continues, as does the low growth and rising unemployment rate in developed countries. According to IMF assessments, global growth will be seen at a level of 3.3.5 per cent in 2012 and 2013, well below the level of 5.5 per cent of the pre-crisis. In the United States, a growth rate is expected at less than 2% or less than normal potential. The front for mutual negative impact between the banking sector in the Eurozone and the public finances has yet to be taken. There's no doubt that the Eurozone is expected at least in the mid-term to have low growth rates. Meanwhile, an important warning in the context of the stabilisation measures is not overlooked in the euro area: be careful not to kill growth altogether while taking the precautionary measures. All of this shows that we are discussing the budget of a difficult year, even more complex than 2012. The year we left behind in 2012 was essentially a year of serious deviations in budget targets. Although it has been applied for additional tax measures and once-in-a-lifetime revenue sources over the year, the 2012 budget deficit appears to rise to $33.5 billion instead of 21.1 billion. If these measures hadn't been taken during the year, the budget deficit would have been that big. There's a 25 percent deviation in the growth goal. The latest report shows that this deviation will increase even further, given the growth of the third quarter of this year. In the inflation forecast, a 35 percent deviation occurred. The difference between expectation and what has happened is that 2012 has been considered as a normal year. Although he does not wish to, there is a very good chance that he will encounter a similar picture in the 2013 budget. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, strong economies are economies with sound public finances. The permanence of the healthy structure in public finance depends on the continuity of structural arrangements. Unfortunately, it's impossible to suggest that the ten years we've left behind have been shown the necessary sensitivity in this area, in structural arrangements. Although there have been some attempts lately, he must be very late and not well enough. Especially before 2008, there was a period that had been abducted from this angle. As of today, the income foot is based on a highly unsanitary tax system, and the expense foot is largely disintended, solidly qualified budget structure. Among our tax revenues, the share of indirect taxes has increased from 65 per cent in ten years to 69 per cent, which further undermines income justice and undermines the balance of the real economy. While the Finance Minister of Time submitted the 2003 budget, he indicated that the 65 per cent in 2002 was high and that it would be pulled down. Instead of falling down in the last ten years, the rate has increased by four more points. As a result, the Treasury Undersecretary's job, which will compensate for the time and space difference between the state's costs and revenues, has also become very difficult. Our country continues by increasing its public importance in the balance of domestic savings and current transactions, leading to the fundamental structural problems of its economy. The domestic savings rate was 20 per cent in 2002, while today -- in 2012 -- has dropped to 14 per cent, while the current account deficit has increased to 10 per cent of the informal domestic market in 2011. This ratio, as you know, is the deficit of the two highest countries in the world. Also, the financial quality of the current deficit is getting worse and worse. There have been significant setbacks in direct investment entries in recent years. $350 billion from 2003 to 2012 has been announced outside. Compared to the explanation before 2003, from 1923 to 2003, we will have actually seen frightening differences unfold. In 2013, it also needs around $200 billion in foreign balance currency. There's bound to be this exchange, no doubt, with interest and currency policy going on just like that. Another important thing I want to focus on is that Turkey has become a more indebted structure during the ten-year AKP period. The country's total debt rate -- the public, plus the real sector, plus the household population -- was 107.1 percent of national income in 2002, not nominally. Today, in 2012, as of August, this rate rose to 117.7 percent. So in ten years, Turkey owes 10.6% more. In 2002, the debt of our citizen, the debt of the household, the debt of the citizens concerned directly with our people, increased to 1.9 per cent of the national income, to 17.5 per cent in 2011 and 18.5 per cent in 2012, as of late August. Clearly, our citizens are literally 10 times more indebted in ten years. Citizen, I suppose, takes this debt to consume it, goes to debt to pay off what's not enough. So the growth didn't get much of this cut. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to make this occasion a brief discussion of a few issues that have been frequently brought up. One is the matter of paying the debt to the IMF. During the rule of the Justice and Development Party, the debt paid to the IMF (IMF) in the ten-year period is not just a loan paid at the time of the previous government. AKP governments borrowed $13 billion from the IMF from 2003 to 2008. The payment was not only 22 billion in debt taken over in 2002, but 13 billion in debt as capital, but we were told by the public that we did not borrow money from the IMF. We've paid off the handover. It's expressed in terms of terms. I'd like to share that with you. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers; the Banking Editor and Control Agency is an important regulator and controller in the banking sector in 2000, at the beginning of the 21st century. In the same period in 2001, the establishment of an independent status of the Turkish Republic's Central Bank transformed the long-standing sector of the Bank of Banks into a strong structure in order to improve the standard of the system. As a matter of fact, the contribution of this new structure has been tremendous, since our country was not affected by the 2008 global crisis of banking and finance. The Capital Market Board got its new law last week. It is also a great wish for us that this new arrangement opens the way for Istanbul to become one of the world's most important financial centers. Independent, regulatory and controlling senior institutions are the modern institutions that boost the competitiveness of the country's economies and give them the strength to resist global crises. Just as the earthquake was damaged, there's something similar here, depending on how far away it was from the earthquake, or how far it was from the earthquake. Just as you solidify structures to reduce the destruction of that earthquake, you have to strengthen your structures in financial or economic earthquakes. If you don't keep your economic structures strong, you'll be affected no matter how far away from the financial crisis. See, these are the structures that increase the power of economies, independent and regulatory institutions, but they have to have their own status. These upper institutions, as I have just stated, are extremely important in terms of competition and global earthquakes, in terms of financial earthquakes, but their independence is the situation we should be shaking on, which is the indispensable quality of these institutions. And you shouldn't be bothered by the structures of the corporations. That's what they're all about in the countries ahead. Recently, examples show that the principle of independence has been severely damaged. Let's not lose this kind of gain that's extremely important to our system after so many years. Mr. President, esteemed MPs, I salute you again, and wish you the best of budgets.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0066par0083	Thank you. Now, it's Hasan Karal, Congresswoman of Rize, who wants to speak for himself.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0067par0086	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself regarding the 2013 budget of our President of the Ministry of Religious Affairs. I salute you all. The Head of the Religious Affairs is an institution that manages the works of religion, religion, and morality, in accordance with the duties and powers vested in it by the Constitution, the law and other legislation, which enlightens and governs places of worship. The Ministry of Religious Affairs, which considers the best way to carry out its mandate by law, also fulfills a sense of service that takes into account the changes, urbanization, migration, education and so on, while caring for the right information, experience, unity and unity, mutual love and respect, tolerance, social assistance and solidarity. At the head of the Republic, the late Ataturk established both the Chief of Staff and the President of Religious Affairs simultaneously and with the same law. It's obvious they're both important. The more important the army is to the country's survival, the more important it is to the President of the Religious Affairs. Ministerial and educational services for our citizens abroad and abroad of the Ministry of Religious Affairs are also important not only in a religious way but also in the interests of national, historical, social, and cultural values. The Ministry of Religious Affairs has taken care of the quality and knowledge as an open and transparent institution, which speaks not only to the community, but to every part of the community. It is clear that a multi-part structure would be revealed if you were to construct the Ministry of Religious Affairs based on sects or cults or other structures. Today, everyone knows that the Head of Religious Affairs is a vital task on the religious and religious community, according to the Koran and circumcision of Islam and the basic sources of Islam, to enlighten, to inform, and to manage places of worship. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the main tasks assigned to the President of Religious Affairs is the subject of religious education. In this area, Koran courses and training centres continue to re-examine physically and educationally, and programmes that have been implemented both in Koran courses and in service training have been updated during our administration. The Koran courses, based on the diversity of services produced by social demands, have been significantly reorganised and more functional in the era of our government, the bans imposed on education, teaching and social activities. Increased, improved and supported the number of events is one of the indicators of the importance of the power of the EC PARTY to rationality and science. As a government, our goal is to offer religious service to our relatives and to every country that humanity needs and to support efforts that will allow the age-old Islamic people to get the right understanding of all human beings. The Society of Religious Affairs Act was annulled by the Constitutional Court in 1979. Although the law has been handled many times, it has not been ruled out. Religious Affairs has been tried to be run by 31 years of generalization, and during our government, this patched-up law has been re-organised into the Ministry of Religious Affairs. Ministers, imam-wits, or some other officials who served in the Ministry of Religious Affairs were not considered officers of criminal law, such as other civil servants. There was a direct examination of them, an investigation, a trial. In violation of the principle of equality, this situation has been redacted in accordance with the principles of equality and the requirements of the legal state of the Constitution. There was a structure in the law concerning the age of 12 that was incompatible with the principle of human rights and equality. When the children went to learn the Koran, the 12-year-old barrier was available for summer Koran courses. Such an antiquated ban has now been lifted. Taking into account the state of our disabled citizens, the physical conditions of our mosques continue to conform to the disabled and to study the laws in sign language. As of today, in our 17 counties, 22 mosques are offered to the benefit of our disabled citizens in sign language. Mr. President, my dear lawmakers, the ruling opposition wishes that our president of the Dianet Affairs, which is one of the fundamental stones of our society, which he does not want to be harmed by our political parties, should be a source of good for our nation and country, and I salute your grand delegation with my greatest heart again.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0068par0098	Thank you. Now it's Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay who wants to speak on behalf of the government.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0069par0101	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first I salute you all. I want to thank all my friends, who are talking about the budgets of our institutions, sharing their valuable ideas here, and representatives of the ruling opposition parties. I, for short, will focus on two of our institutions, the President of Disaster and Emergency Management and the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security. My time is short. I leave more time for Mr. Bekir and Mr. Ali because I spoke yesterday. Dear President, the esteemed lawmakers, the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, as it is known, is not an operational institution; it is our organization to produce more strategies in the fight against terrorism and to coordinate. And again, part of this coordination is to combine them by taking strategic intelligence from intelligence agencies in our country and taking advantage of it again. That's how he works. It was founded during my Ministry of Internal Affairs, and now it's up to the Prime Minister, and it's my responsibility again. It's not an operational institution, as I said in the beginning, but it's done very well here, it's done very well, it's done very well; it's done sensory research, it's done social research, it's analyzed, it's shared with our institutions. As you know, I run the High Council of Anti-Terrorism. Our co-ordination is there, all our institutions are there, and the data from the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security is being evaluated. In addition, this institution has studied the anti-terrorism action plan, completed it last year, it's been approved, it's been approved by the National Security Council, each of our institutions has something to do with it, and they share it with our institutions now. In the international area, he is especially working with our foreign ministry in the European region. Our Intelligence Co-ordination Center is currently fully operational. One of our intelligence agencies has been recruited here, and our Undersecretary of Public Security has been coordinated. In the coming period, the work here will grow, I believe in it. It is also a serious archive, information center, and studies of international developments on this issue. Two issues in the talks brought up here: Foreign personnel: There are no foreign experts working here at the moment. Second, what Mr. Akat is saying here has nothing to do with listening and so on and so forth. It's obvious in our listening code, which institutions will do it with judicial decisions. There's a small amount of covered funding, yes, but I've seen that 20 percent of it hasn't been used in recent years. All security units are already covered. As for AFAD, I'll tell you: AFAD, you know, it was just founded, set up two years ago. There were different institutions in our country for disaster, for emergencies, to coordinate this, and the integrated disaster management system and its primary priority were a sense of risk management, rather than crisis management. This model predicts prerecognising the dangers and risks caused by disaster and emergencies, preventing and minimizing the damage that could have been done before the cataclysm, and providing effective intervention and coordination in disaster and emergency situations, and that's what the AFAD is doing. What's he doing? I'm just passing through: In fact, for the first time, a disaster management in Turkey has prepared the first strategic document of our history, UDSEP. In fact, with this document, we have the responsibilities of all our institutions related to the earthquake, the responsibility of the disaster, and it's clear what Turkey is going to do, and these studies will be completed by 2023, and we are taking steps about it right now. This is the National Earthquake Strategy and Action Plan, UDSEP 2023, preventing or reducing the effects of physical, economic, social, and environmental political damage that earthquakes can cause, and creating new life environments that are safe, prepared, and sustainable; we're working on this, very comprehensive and fundamental solutions. In particular, 2012 was a busy year for a new plan. From the beginning of 2013, you will see much more of the work of the AFAD (AFAD) in public, open to the public. What was done in 2012? The Urban Transformation Act has been passed, our Ministry of Environment is running it. The Disaster Insurance Act has been renewed, and now he can't even get an electric subscription that doesn't even have insurance, so we find it very important. The MTA (MTA)'s living fault map has been renewed, the National Earthquake Research Programme has been activated, the National Platform for Resolving Disaster Risks has been established, projects in the creation of integrated disaster hazard maps have been launched. In that sense, there's really a lot of extensive work going on in the future.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0070par0115	There's nothing there.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0069par0116	Mr. President, our valued lawmakers are being established, especially if our AFAD (AFAD) is under its strategic plan of 2013-2017, the system of integrated risk and disaster management is being established. The campaign for national education to improve and dominate disaster management standards, to prepare for disaster, to be a growing and learning institution -- a more resistant society for disasters -- is the focus of our current work. Here, valuable speakers have also expressed, the way of reason is one, Turkey will surely succeed. Yeah, well, maybe a lot of buildings are going to collapse, but we're going to take those risks, so for the future of Turkey, we're going to do this so that our people's life doesn't get lost. Mr. President, as part of the study, the year 2013 will be the year of training in order to increase disaster awareness and sensitivity. From the beginning of 2013, we will start implementing serious projects such as family ready for disaster, school ready for disaster, and work place ready for disaster, young people ready for disaster.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0071par0119	And last year, you were saying, "2012. "
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0069par0120	Mr. President, we have a field study about Turkey, which means we need to be more prepared. I'll tell you about them the rest of the time. We have now divided Turkey into 15 regions. This is a study we did in 2012. In these areas, everything will be ready from the tent to the heater, to the first-minute emergency search and rescue equipment, given the risk of disaster for our communities. We're doing this with Reda, and we've produced 65,000 of them now -- the tents that fit our territory, the seasons, the Turkish family structure -- with the compartments in them and so on -- and we're moving on to a system that's going to reach 100,000, hopefully. We've also started the work of setting up temporary housing centers ahead of the disaster, preparing the infrastructure of these centers. Turkey's risk zones are clear. From every angle - God forbid, I hope we don't see disaster - we'll know what to do when the disaster happens; we'll know it, all of it. That is what we have agreed on in our institutions and in our Emergency Oversight Council of Disasters, where 11 of our ministers have recently attended. That's been discussed with all of our agencies right now. From now on, when something like this happens, it's clear who will do what, what our institutions will do. When the button is pressed, all the public, civil, local organizations in Turkey know what to do and will act. Hopefully it won't be a disaster, but there won't be any surprises when something happens, the materials will be ready in the nearest warehouses, our institutions will act immediately. We see this system very important, we are working very decisively on it, and our government and all our ministries will do their part in it, and, frankly, we find it very important, very valuable. Of course, the AFAD (AFAD) now has very important work to do. My dear friends here mentioned that we had a Van incident -- Mr. Burhan Kayaturk and Haci Bayram Türkoğlu. Praise be to God, we've come out of it with our faces flowing. Currently, there are Syrian asylum seekers today, whose number has increased to 138 thousand. The AFAD is co-ordinating all of these studies. They're housing, feeding, education, school-age health care, and we're coordinating them all again. I thank you for your interest in the budgets of our institutions, for your support, and I salute you all with the utmost respect, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0072par0127	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0073par0128	Mr. Secretary, you haven't answered any questions about the religion.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0074par0129	You said the same thing in 2011 for 2012; you said the same thing about 2013 in 2012.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0072par0130	Also on behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ is the second speaker.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0075par0132	Mr. President, I'm here to respond to assessments of the budgets of the President of Religious Affairs, Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency and the President of the Foreign Turks and Associations and to express the opinion of our government. I hereby salute your esteemed delegation. Dear lawmakers, the Constitution, the Law and other relevant legislation shall carry out its duty to carry out affairs related to the beliefs, worship and morality of the Islamic religion, to enlighten the people in matters of religion, and to manage places of worship. As one of the oldest and most fundamental institutions of our Republic of Religious Affairs, the President of Religion of Islam has performed very important tasks to teach, to be taught, to be taught correctly, and to govern places of worship, a cement of our country's unity and unity and order. As of today, the number of personnel is among our institutions, which have been employed until they reach the most remote part of our country. Therefore, the chairmanship of Religious Affairs is a large organization that is all over Turkey and is producing services everywhere. On this occasion, I would like to thank all of our friends, who have served in the Ministry of Religious Affairs, for their duties. While reviews of the budget of the Ministry of Religious Affairs have been made, of course, the surplus of the dianetite budget has been paused and criticisms have been made. In particular, we want to highlight one thing: The budget of the Ministry of Religious Affairs is not a very large budget; about 96 per cent is a budget that covers staff costs, almost no investment budget. With such a structure, the President of Religious Affairs is signing major activities both inside Turkey and abroad, and he will continue to do so. Why don't we just stand here and maybe criticize the government and increase the investment budget of the diet? Why don't you put more investments and other resources here? If we get criticism, then maybe we can say more righteous things, our friends. But let's say that the government doesn't pay the workers in the Ministry of Religious Affairs. It's different if they're trying. But no, where do these coins go? Each time we explain the numbers. This money goes to the expense of staff costs and businesses for lighting, telephones and so on. All mosques in Turkey are made through charities and foundations established by our philanthropic citizens; at this point there is no transfer of funds from the state budget. From time to time, construction is provided with a very small amount of support. Today, all mosques in Turkey, all of the places of worship are made by the contribution of our nation's heart treasure. While the Ministry of Religious Affairs continues to serve, of course, it does so with its staff, and it does important work to improve the quality of the staff. In the 1990s, he took an uplifting step to the level of education by starting the Theology Prelicense Completion Programme, later the Theology License Completion Program. Religious training centres have been established as part of the online training. Today, in exactly 16 locations of our Turkish education centers are working on the better services of our religious officials through service training. In addition, religious high-intensity centers have been established, envisioning the establishment of 10 by law. Three have been activated so far, others will be activated in the coming days. At the same time, 250 mosque guidance staffs were committed to ensure the introduction of historical mosques by competent people. From now on, those who come to mosques, visiting tourists, or for other purposes, will be given the right information by those who know the mosque, who know the culture of the mosque. The Ministry of Religious Affairs also does important tasks in the general education of religion. He takes important steps in this area, on the one hand, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the other. Finally, the prophet published an event of the Lord's events called "Islam" in events and introduced it to the public of Turkey and the world in the State of Eurasia. So far, five religious publications have been organized. He also founded the Head of Religious Affairs, the Religion TV. In 2012, Religious TV was established under the protocol with the TRT. TRT broadcasts Diet TV via Anatolia. For now, the test is broadcasting, and some time later, this broadcast will return to normal broadcast and become a television broadcaster for 24 hours. Of course, in order to satisfy the need for religious services for our citizens living abroad, our Ministry of Religious Affairs has signed under many studies. He serves our citizens there now with 1,804 officers. We also launched the International Divine Project to meet the need for religious officials because some of the countries in which our citizens live abroad do not accept religious officials from Turkey. When our relatives, citizens of foreign countries, return here with a degree in theology, they work better at serving there, and many such work is carried out by our chairmanship of the Religious Affairs. Mr. President, the valued MPs are the TİKA with the President of Turkish and Relative Communitys abroad -- as well as one dimension of the Religion -- about our citizens living abroad, about our relatives. Here, valuable speakers criticised the Turkish world for its involvement. THE EC PARTY governments have taken important steps to take closer care of the Turkish world, to strengthen bridges between us, religion, language, culture, history, economics, politics and so on, and to take further steps, making very important decisions. I'd like to share these with you, if I may. At the beginning, the most important structure is TİKA (TİKA). When the President of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency was founded in '92, it was founded with a structure that gave priority only to certain regions, and when we look at the law, we see it. First of all, he talks about the Turkish world, but then he says other things. The law remains to help the development of developing countries, especially the republics where Turkish language is spoken and neighbouring countries to Turkey. Now, Turkish-speaking countries, neighbouring countries and developing countries. What did we do? We took important steps regarding Turkish-speaking countries, taking important steps related to neighbouring countries. By taking further steps, we have reconstructed the TİKA (TİKA) in line with the purpose of this law, and today we have transformed it into an organization that serves five continents. By the time we arrived, there were 12 other offices abroad, and we have now increased the number of such offices to 33, and the number of countries he served was not nearly 20, but we currently run the development-based services in more than 100 countries. Look, my dear friends, in 2002, TİKA offered a total of $86m development aid, while the OECD Development Aid Committee's norms raised it to $2 billion 363 million in 2011 by increasing it 27.5 times. That's a big number. In 2011 alone, $1 billion,273 million is an official development aid, while the rest are aided by NGOs and other means. Therefore, the OECD Committee for Development (DAC) has declared Turkey a rising donor country and has placed it among the star states, and its president himself has come to Turkey -- Mr Babacan, and he has come to me -- has sent his invitation for Turkey to become a member of the DAC. While Turkey is trying to become a member of many international institutions, you're looking at it now. There's another structure that says, "Come join us." This is a sign of Turkey's power, Turkey's strength. Another issue: TİKA implements a total of 2,241 projects in 1992 to 2002, while in our administration, 10,086 projects in ten years have not been included in the 2012 figures. When you look at Rakama, when you look at the result, we have spread Turkey's power, its resources, its Turkish-speaking countries, relatives, places that need development assistance, and we are careful to spread it. Well, if you look at where these projects went, there's some pretty impressive numbers there, too. I'm giving you the figures in 2011 before going too far back: 805 (805) of the projects were carried out in the Caucasus and Central Asia; 425 (425) was carried out in the Balkans; 202 (202) was carried out in the Middle East and Africa. When the Turkish world was neglected, the Balkans were neglected; there is no such thing. We've been careful to be everywhere in the Turkish world, all over the Balkans, where the foot of our profession, where it's touched by its work, where it's been. Today, go to Mongolia, where the monuments of wise Khan and Ash Tigin...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0076par0149	Do you have any in Erbil, in Süleymaniye, in Dohuk, in Zaho?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0075par0150	When you go, you'll find that the Turkish Republic restored it during the AK PARTY, and the 46km road was made hot asphalt.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0076par0151	Come a little closer from Mongolia.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0075par0152	When you leave, Mustafa Pasha Mosque in Skopje will greet you with respect from Sinan Pasha Mosque in Prizren, Kosovo. It was repaired by TİKA and opened to the ministry. (AK PARTI) Again, in Kazakhstan, in Kyrgyztan, in Uzbekistan, in Turkmenistan, wherever you go, I don't say dozens, hundreds of projects will greet you there, along with the logo of TİKA, which carries the moon-star flag. We're everywhere; we make sure we're everywhere. I'd like to share a memory of myself in the city of Pljevlja, Montenegro, where we are visiting a mosque.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0076par0154	You were against ethnic nationalism. What are you doing in Mongolia?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0075par0155	The president of the religious affairs said: "There is a sad story here: What is this story?" When I asked him, he wrote a letter to the Ottomans to fix this mosque in 1911, but we left the Ottomans in 1912. The letter hasn't been answered. When Mr. Recep became Prime Minister, we presented ourselves once again. This place has been restored under instructions. In the month of Ramadan in 2011, he went back to worship on the Night of Kadir. He added: "Mr. Minister, please don't wait a hundred years to answer our letters again."
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0076par0157	Restorate the tomb of Hulagû!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0075par0158	Now, wherever it is in the world, letters to Turkey find the answer instantly.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0077par0159	Minister, Kerkuk, Kerkuk...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0075par0160	He says, "There was no visit to Kirkuk, and there was no interest in Kerkuk. " Look, after seventy-five years, the first minister to go to Kerkuk was the Foreign Minister of these governments.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0077par0162	What happened? What happened?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0075par0163	Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu is gone. Why hasn't anyone been there yet?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0077par0164	Mr. Secretary, you've given up on Kerkuk.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0075par0165	That's not true! Look, the first Turkish Prime Minister to go to Urumchi was Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0077par0167	Look, don't mislead the MPs, give them the right information!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0075par0168	It's been discussed so far, but we're doing it. We are in Urumchi, we are in Kirkuk, we are in Africa, we are in all over the world.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0078par0169	You're not in Kurdistan, you're in Kurdistan!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0075par0170	Because we've established the presidency of international Turks and Relatives wherever a citizen, a family member, wherever a relative is and we're acting on it.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0078par0172	Ethnic nationalist, you're in Mongolia!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0075par0173	Look, they're asking us all over the world, they're asking us in Turkey, they're asking me in the Middle East, the Westerners are asking us, they're questioning our intentions.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0079par0174	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0075par0175	I'll leave it to you. I wish you good luck on the budget.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0080par0178	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0081par0179	You've told a lot of lies, Mr. Bekir!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0080par0180	On behalf of the government, the last speaker is Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0082par0182	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our Undersecretary of Treasury, to our Banking Organization and Control, to our Capital Market Board's budget of 2013. I salute you all with respect and love. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers have yet to emerge from the global economic and financial crisis in the world of 2008-2009. This crisis continues by changing phases, altering extremities. In particular, problems in developed countries are getting deeper and deeper by the day. Today, when we look at the European Union, we see serious banking problems and very high public debt problems in many countries. The United States of America currently exceeds 100 per cent of its national income. Once again, when you ask the European Union about the coming period, what kind of economic policy will be implemented in the United States, and even Japan, the third largest economy, you can't see the answer, unfortunately, there is a serious indecision, a serious uncertainty. Especially this year, in developing countries, we began to see the effects of this crisis. Growth figures have been revised downward in China, India, Brazil. In fact, compared with this period of last year, the world's growth, the growth of developed countries, the growth rates of developing countries have always been revised downwards. So, in such a deep crisis, in the deepest crisis the world has seen since World War II, the economy of Turkey is doing a very good performance in many areas, thank God.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0083par0185	What's the rate of growth? 1.6.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0082par0186	Of course, political stability in Turkey and a strong political will have a very important impact, but the economic policies that we have implemented have also contributed greatly to our success. Before the crisis, many of the reforms, banking reforms, reforms on public financial management and control, and the reforms that we've done in the field of social security and health, especially lowering our budget deficit, lowering our public debt supply, all of which brought us to the crisis with a strong structure. Right now, the two most important issues of the crisis are public debt and banking. Turkey has entered this period strongly in both areas. For that reason, the impact of this crisis has been very limited on Turkey. Not only what we did before the crisis, but what we did during the crisis separated Turkey. On the one hand, what we're doing is more than half of our exports -- which is what it was in 2009 -- the European Union, on the other hand, is a particularly difficult external structure that we're dealing with in terms of finance and trade, is a difficult external conjunctive, but on the other hand, when we think about the policies that we're doing in terms of the period, we've had a very good outcome. During the crisis, many countries in Europe were making decisions to overcome the crisis by increasing public spending, by increasing public deficits, by borrowing more and more, while we took the opposite path. We said: "Trust in the state is essential. We will continue to reduce our public deficit, our budget deficit, and continue to lower our debt supply. This is the crucial point of the Central Future Program, which we announced in 2009, and after announcing this program -- which is now the third year -- that programme -- the public debt stock in Turkey continued to fall, and all the confidence indicators in Turkey have risen. For the past two years, we have also been taking measures against a particularly domestic consumption-based economic structure. In 2010, we saw very high growth rates in 2011, that's true, but in this growth, especially internal consumption, especially when our people are spending money from banks, and so on, we're obviously scared. So in order to be able to walk on a more stable, solid ground, we've taken measures to our banks, we've taken measures to deal with monetary policy, and this year's internal consumption is almost head-on, and this year's growth is mainly external demand-heavy growth. That's why we've had a very important and successful restoration process in our economy in 2012. Inflation closed at over 10 per cent last year, you know, we're now down to 6.37 per cent by the end of November. Cari saw 10 percent open last year, so hopefully this year we'll see about 7 percent open. As for growth: When we look at the 2010-2012 growth rate, this shows us the highest growth rate among the European Union and the OECD countries. In 2013, our four percent goal shows that the European Union, again, will be the fastest growing economy in Europe. We've also had good results in employment. Since that deepest day of the 2009 crisis, the total number of employees in Turkey has increased by 4 million, and Turkey, among members of the International Labour Organization ILO, is the first country to reduce unemployment as the fastest. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are growing a total economy in Turkey, while the national income per capita is growing, while we see that this income is distributed more fairly, which is an exception. According to the OECD reported last year's income distribution report, Turkey is the fastest-resolved revenue distribution in all OECD countries. In most OECD countries, revenue distribution is rapidly failing, while Turkey is ranked number one among the few countries in which revenue distribution has improved, and in this group, as the fastest country to improve revenue distribution. That's what we see when we look at absolute poverty indicators. Look, we're now a population of less than $2.15, thank God, we're out. We're looking at our population under $4.3: in 2002, 30.3 per cent went down to 2.79 per cent, as the latest TÜİK (TİK) announced a few days ago, and Turkey, hopefully, will enter the high-income country group, according to the World Bank's classification of 2015. You know, there are four groups of countries in the world: low-income countries -- we divide middle-income countries -- lower middle income, upper middle income, and higher income. Turkey is currently in the upper middle-income country group, and Turkey will enter the high-income country group, hopefully in 2015, according to the World Bank rating. The figures of the latest medium-term program, as well as their goals, show this. Meanwhile, Turkey's public finance structure continues to grow rapidly. Look, from 2009 to today, public debt has increased rapidly in many countries, while in Turkey, by the end of 2009, the rate of public debt to national income is 46 per cent; in this year, hopefully, we're ending at 36 per cent, so in the middle of the crisis, we're down by 10 points in the rate of national income, as debt is increasing almost everywhere in the world. To the public's net external debt: This is very important friends -- the total public sector, the central government, municipalities, all of the CSCEs -- what is the public's external debt clearly, what is it now? I'm just saying it's net, because in this net account, we're dropping the currency assets in the public's hands, and we're getting a clear number after we've removed the currency assets from the currency debt. Look, 2002, Turkey has $54.1 billion in net public foreign debt, $54.1 billion, the amount left after its assets dropped. As of the second quarter of this year -- which we have at the end of June this year -- we're down to less than zero, plus $1.9 billion, so the total public exchange assets are more than in exchange debt. We've reset the net external debt -- thank God -- and we're even back to plus. Look, yesterday's debt tender has been the lowest debt rate in history in the domestic market, such as 5.77 percent. Again, about a week ago, the interest in 2041-term foreign debt was 4.35 per cent, the lowest debt interest in history, dated 2041. We're looking at the fact that the U.S. treasure dated 2041 is being borrowed in terms of its own money, and we're only under 1.6. So today, the difference between the German treasure and the American treasure and the Turkish treasury's debt interest has been reduced to historically low levels, which we call the prima. Turkey's risk premium is currently at historical low levels. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, while we're actually doing all this, we've come to clean up the burdens of the past, the troubles of the past, and pay for it. Look, it's $111 billion, 111 billion, and 111 quadrillion in old money, because of the private banks that went down and the public banks that went down and the debt that we paid during our administration. There were special deposits for the banks that went down in our government -- friends who followed those days -- special arrangement, state internal debt bonds, we paid them all, we finished at the end of 2010, we paid $111 billion. That's the number we get when we add up the numbers as a nominal. And if we didn't pay for it, so if we didn't have that banking crisis that day, where would Turkey's debt be? We're comparing it to the day we paid it, and we're bringing it back to today with the treasure interest -- 231 billion dollars. So if it wasn't for the banking crisis, if these banks didn't have such a burden on the country -- public banks plus private banks -- our internal debt today would be 231 billion dollars lower. Thank God we're getting those results by paying the bill for all these past crises. When you talk about public banks, look, the Agriculture Bank, the People's Bank, they were the banks that were remembered for their mission losses and walked with the support they received from the treasury every year. In our time, we didn't transfer a dime to the Farm Bank or the People's Bank. But what we did was we did this: the Agriculture Bank and the People's Bank profited, and they paid their surplus resources for the treasure as collateral; the amount is $16 billion. Moreover, they profited and paid a tax on the finances, a total of $10 billion in this period. One period of losing banks earn money, the finance pays taxes on institutions, 10 billion, and the treasury pays a profit share of 16 billion, within this period. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are also closely monitored and supported by international circles in Turkey's economic performance. Look, in 2009 we hosted the World Bank and International Fund annual meetings, the largest comprehensive meeting in the world's financial community, attended by about 15,000 people. The minister and head of the central bank from 186 countries came to our country, hosting what we would call an economic and financial fair. To get this, we received 90 percent of the game in 2006. There's an 85% limit, and if you don't get 85 percent of the vote, if those countries don't support you, you can't host these meetings. We got this by 90%. This year we were elected chairman of the OECD. At the OECD Council of Ministers meeting in May, Turkey led the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers. We were elected President of the G-20 term for 2015. Hopefully, during 2015, Turkey will be president of all G-20 countries, and all the summits and ministers' meetings of G-20 will be held in Turkey. Again, we've made decisions to ensure that the annual meetings of the European Bank for Development and Development were held in İstanbul in 2013, and we've made this choice. All of these are, like, the most important indicators of how the world's public perceives Turkey, how it sees the Turkish economy. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to talk quickly about a few of the issues mentioned by the speakers before me and then finish what I said. In Turkey, consumer loans have increased, right, but at the moment, the GDP rate of consumer loans is 20 per cent. The European Union averages 66%. But perhaps the point of Turkey's attention is that we arrived at this 20 per cent very quickly. And that's why, from mid-2011, we've brought a limitation and a more measured arrangement for loans. Again, there was a question about the BDK, whether new licenses will be given, whether the number of banks will increase? Dear friends, we are very clear about this. In Turkey, it is true that new bank licenses will now be given, but one; a very strong capital structure, two; and only with a very strong reputation can this be possible and a strong capital, plus a very, very clean past, very, very clean reputation, will not be possible to obtain a banking license in Turkey. It won't be possible in our time, just as it hasn't been possible until now. There was something about the IMF, about the IMF debt, and I want to finish what Mr. Oral. We made a new stand-by agreement with the International Fund of Money in 2005, correct. But the loans we used during this stand-by agreement were always below the number we paid, so we have always been a clear lender to the IMF throughout our own administration. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll thank you all again and pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0084par0210	Thank you. Abdullah Levent Tüzel, İstanbul MP who asked for a personal word. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0085par0214	Mr. President, I salute you on behalf of the People's Democratic Congress, the united movement of Turkish workers, people. We're talking about a budget for a system that's going down, a country that's been broken down. This budget shows the illegality of government and budget, which says corruption is bad, and documents of corruption prevents Court reports from coming to parliament. The AKP's 11th budget is a public enemy budget that denies its commitments to the public. For millions of people, it's the budget of poverty, debt, unemployment, warfare, hunger. A group gathered around the government is the budget of promotion, tax exemption, privilege and corruption, crisis opportunism, embezzlement. Not with the effects of the crisis, but with the soft landing, the economy that's going downhill is a more open budget. As always, this deficit will be billed for belt tightening with VATs paid by the labourer, with increases in OTV, electricity, natural gas increases. Look at a country created by the AKP government, which sleeps the country with the words of the powerful Turkish government, who claims to have taken the people to their destination in 2023: millions of young people struggling in the vortex of unemployment, 183 children killed in the middle of the conflict, 183 workers who have turned their budget with credit cards, 45 million workers under construction patterns, drowned in horny waves, poisoned by chemicals, killed 11,000 workers in business killings. Let's hire the teachers under construction patterns, including 11,000 people who have been poisoned by chemicals, I'm going to send over to the country with a total of 253 patients. I'm going to send over to the country to the country with a total loss of 1,135 000 people who are suspected in ten years. The AKP totalitarianism, which has not dropped democracy from its mouth but has not yet brought 8 MPs to parliament, can be extended. What do we hear from the Prime Minister in front of this painting? Phones, refrigerators, car sales, construction numbers, highways, railway miles, but the Prime Minister doesn't talk about workers who can't pay their bills with electricity, natural gas hikes, who don't talk about people who die of floods in constructions that are corrupt. 41 citizens who died in the faster train delusions have not been accounted for. We have increased the price -- the amount of bread -- by 740 -- to 3 per cent -- to 5 million working families should also tell us how to live. In Kayseri, we handed pepperoni to 3,500 people. I'd like to remind the Prime Minister of another Kaiseri view, who said, "It's not the CHP, it's the people." In the crisis, the bosses who employ workers for 16 hours without permission, without sending them to the bathroom are building new factories. 700 teachers are down to norm. Students who rise up as workers at the morning prayer are referred to the Qur'an without asking their guardians. There are women workers who are dressed in a lot of scrubs so that their body lines don't show up, mothers who go to work without seeing their 5-year-old. Those who say, "We will not be rich like Karun" and throw the cover at the AKP have questions for the Prime Minister: 1) When will the torpedo applications of personnel takeovers end? 2) Make 3 children. You say, "But we haven't been able to get a job and get married." And, of course, we voted for you. A mentality that governs the people with gas, water, baton violence, and now Patriot prepares for a new war with AWACS NATO bases. Those who claim public order and security will not be erased from our memory who slay the people in Roboski. This is human-centered life, not by dividing people by their identity and beliefs, but by bringing them together with equality and freedom. Finally, representatives of workers who ask for human wages representing 5 million minimum wage will be in parliament on December 19th with their signatures. As messengers of the united, organized workers, they will know to get rid of this public enemy budget and of its government. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0086par0224	Thank you. Members of parliament, you will be asked and answered for 20 minutes. Mr. Çınar, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Akçay, Mr. Yeniçeri, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Türkoğlu, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Imlum, Mr. Cüreli, Mr. Moroğlu, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Kurt and Mr. Demir. 20 people. Congressmans, Mr. Gürsoy Erol, since I cannot enter the system, I respectfully submit to the assessment of my request for a statement in the QA section. If you'll excuse me, I'll also grant Mr. Gürsoy Erol. Mr. Chanar, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0087par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is it true that people with low KPSS scores for the President of Religious Affairs have been taken and transferred to other institutions? If this claim is true, how many personnel have made that transition in the last three years? Do you plan to employ our imams who serve as proxy imams? Do you have any work on this? How many experts are still employed in the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security? Are there any foreign experts among these experts, if any, on what missions?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0088par0233	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0089par0235	Thank you, Mr. President. The plans by Istanbul, the cultural capital of Europe, and by the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality and Fatih Municipality in 2012, have been seen in the latest years, from plans in which 212 artifacts were not seen in the new plans, and replaced by commercial spaces. Why is the Ministry and the Ministry of Religious Affairs silent, as there are about 100 mosques in previous records, not in these new plans? That's my first question. My second question: Mr. Cemil Cicek is that the mosques of the Islamic religion are the places of worship for the request of an MP. Does the forced places of worship of our Alevi citizens form a means of oppression for our 15 million Alevi citizens living in Turkey? I'd like the Minister's opinion on this matter.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0090par0238	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0091par0240	One, Mr. Minister, news has come from the press that Bakırköy Mufti Zakir Uzuk was assigned to the Kütahya Mufti Deputy for his participation in a party of Republican People's Party. On what grounds was the appointment of Mr. Mufti Zakir Long? But if you say that, if you say that, we know who's never been to the rotation. This is another question: Do you have any work on this because the military Supreme Court has failed to check the positions of the Supreme Court for the approval of the ministers of the Supreme Military Court and those who have been issued with the verdict? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0092par0243	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0093par0245	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how much did you budget for the Turkish world during this time of your bragging about loaning $5 billion to the IMF? It's probably the most concrete indication of how much you care about the Turkish world. Again, how many students have been accepted into our country in the 2012-2013 teaching year under the Grand Student Project, launched after the Turkish republics gained independence? How many of them have come to our country from the Turkish republics? Again, are there projects in Mosul-Kerkuk, which are run by TİKA (TİKA) and the presidency of the Turkish and Relative Community abroad, if there are any, what are they? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0094par0250	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0095par0252	Thank you, Mr. President. Do you find it correct that imams are appointed principal of schools when the number of mosques in our country is 9,185? Why are imams assigned to schools instead of teachers waiting for an open appointment? There are differences between bank promotions of all working public officials, will you resolve this injustice? Do you have any legal arrangements for the employment of employees employed under Articles 4/B, 4/C of State Officers Act 657, and for the benefit of legal regulations and family, child welfare and additional payments? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0096par0258	Thank you. Mr. Right... no. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0097par0261	Thank you, Mr. President. The head of the first and most important institutions of the Republic, Mr. Yüzlmez. We have read that no one has the right to try to make our presidency look like a burden on our nation for those who criticize the institution's 2013 budget. In the first place, one of the rights of all the MPs under this Parliament was to criticize, but how did Mr. Gormez, as a civil servant, have the right and right to speak those words? What do you think about that? I'd like to mention one more thing. You will remember the words of the deputy of Yozgat, who spoke to the girls and to the boys. It's called a wanker. He said to his wife, who played at the wedding, that he wouldn't speak to her. I'm told there's going to be an investigation due to these statements. I'd like to ask Mr. Bozdağ, who is also from Yozgat, the fate of the Deputy Mufti. How can it be explained that the person in question is still on duty despite his promises? Does that not encourage other religious leaders who share the same mentality? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0098par0265	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0099par0267	Thank you, Mr. President. And I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary, what criteria did you make for these mele assignments? Of all the imam-gatherers and theology graduates in our country, what did you take as a criteria? Are these adjudications the result of your opening policy or your opening policy, which you express in that way? Or are you trying to get the madrasses to work? Do you plan to take these madrases to the educational institutions of knitting? Also, the village of the Doganian village of Kozan has not been imamed for a long time. Do you intend to perform this appointment? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0100par0271	Thank you. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0101par0273	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Bozdağ: What is the number of Koran courses that have been opened, closed, or suspended from teaching in the last decade? What's the number of church houses that have opened in the last ten years? For what purpose do church houses open in places where only one Christian or non-Muslim citizen lives? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0102par0277	Thank you. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0103par0279	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is Mr. Bashir Atalay. The Grand Prophet of Islam says to draw near to sin as close as you can to the fire. At this point, when you're spending people's money, you have to get close to people's money like you're getting close to the fire. The cost of today's budget, which is beneficiaries, requires such sensitivity. Buildings that can be bought with three or four years' rent are rented by the ministries on behalf of the public. In this regard, is it strategic that the Office of the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security is located at the centre of the Kızılay? If not, why is this building rented at the most expensive location? What is the cost of repairs, repairs, maintenance and repairs by the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security during the holding of the building in which it operates? However, there are allegations that the building has been spent around $6m in Turkish liras for renovations. How many years has this building been rented? What is the monthly or annual rent rate of the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0102par0281	Thank you. Mr. Halaman... no. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0104par0284	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we spoke at the 2011 budget talks. Why did you appoint an ambassador to the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security? Didn't we say there was no governor, no governor, with any security experience? And you praised the ambassador. Then, the crisis you had with that ambassador caused a certain smile in Ankara's bureaucracy, and you finally did the right thing by appointing a governor there. Why does AFAD depend on the Prime Minister who isn't acting? Would it not be more appropriate for the executive minister of civil defense to be connected to the Ministry of Interior? But you ignored it. Now, the large toxin law, which will divide the country, operates within the special administration of AFAD in 29 counties, the Ministry of Investment Watch and Co-ordination in the Interior, and in 52 provinces. So two heads, two structures. Please, turn this wrong and connect the AFAD to the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0105par0288	Thank you. Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0106par0290	Thank you, Mr. President. According to the Ministry of Disaster and Emergency Management, Turkey has about 140,000 refugees from Syria, but there are also people on the Syrian border who have come from Syria, including Hatay, Gaziantep, Kilis, Urbana, who have not stayed in the camps. According to our own findings and reports from the police, there are about 1,500 such families in Gaziantep, 1,500 houses. There's no telling how many people are left in these 1,500 houses, who they are, and there's no study of them. Do you plan on doing such a study? Who are they? How long are they staying? Did they extend the time back again after passing by with a passport? In the meantime, did they commit any crimes? Has there been any study of this? There are also reports that these are people from outside Syria, from other countries. Do you have any work on this, too? If you answer, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0107par0293	Thank you. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0108par0295	Thank you, Mayor. There's this information on the AFAD website -- I've read it, and I'll ask you a question about it -- the expression is: "The forms used in damage detection studies in areas affected by disaster in the current practice are general forms and cannot distinguish buildings that have had engineering services and buildings that haven't had engineering services. The forms that are still being used are designed for more stacking structures. Therefore, it is not possible to have detailed knowledge of a building that has seen engineering through the application form. My question: have you used these damage detection forms in Van? Is that why the Bayram Hotel collapsed?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0109par0298	Thank you. Mr. Gürsoy Erol, please.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0110par0300	Mr. President, first of all, I'd like to thank you and my members of the General Assembly for their sensitivity. In particular, the disabled and the elderly are having serious problems in and out of the places of worship. At this particular point, given that we have a two-and-a-half-year period of law on access, and the investment budget in the Dianet Businesses is very low, I'd like to know what our Minister is working on or what he thinks about overcoming this issue. Another: Do they plan to make special religious programs for disabled groups through TRT Anatolia? A third: Do they have any work on having a sign language interpreter for the deaf, especially in large mosques and at least on Friday? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0111par0305	Thank you. He's about to answer questions, Mr. Atalay. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0112par0308	Thank you. Mr. President, Congressman, I'm answering the questions I've been asked myself. Mr. Çınar says how many experts are there in Public Security? There are now 10 experts. The total staff is 68. There are no foreign experts. Mr. Yeniçeri asks: The TOBB building is correct, in Kızılay. The old building of TOBB is rented, where it is used. I don't have any information. Mr. Türkoglu: Why is AFAD tied to the Prime Minister's office? Because AFAD is a coordination organisation. There are many ministries involved in disaster and emergency, and there are now 11 ministers on the upper board in AFAD. Therefore, it is important for business to be run by the Prime Minister. With regard to Syrian asylum seekers, it is true that 138 thousand refugees are in our country as of today. Their services are being conducted, but our estimates are that there are people in our different provinces who come with passports of around 80,000, and there are also people in Gaziantep, and there are some in our border provinces. There are indications of these. More or less known, he's being followed, and I'll state that. Mr. Eyiborn, of course, in accordance with the law and technique of that subject, those studies have been conducted, but my friends on that website will give me information. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0113par0316	Here you are, Mr. Bozdağ.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0114par0317	Mr. President, do you think it's right for Mr. Chanar to take a low rank for the President of Religious Affairs? The allegations on this matter are not true. There's a process of imam-responsibility in the Ministry of Religious Affairs. There's a pattern to the appointment of other clergy. There are appointments under these. It's a completely unrealistic claim that people are being recruited and transferred to other institutions with the lowest score, and that's out of the question. That's how it works in other institutions, and there's a different way of doing it, of course, in the imam purchase, but it's not an act of injustice. Number two: do you plan to put in a position for trustee imams? Of course, the last time there was a staff work in the Parliament was in 2010. Right now, we don't have any work on hiring proxy imams on our agenda, but we do have imam-responsors and muezzin-sponsorships taken every year. If they take these exams, they'll be able to afford it. Mr. Kaplan had a question about mosques and mosques that were destroyed during the Istanbul urban transformation. Of course, under urban transformation, Turkey will have mosques that will be destroyed not only in Istanbul but elsewhere. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is in this framework, where the mosques around here will be done exactly the same way and better done by meeting with the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, municipalities, all concerned. Here, all mosques that will be destroyed will be placed in a better place, which you can follow, which is our decision. Do you agree with the opinion of Mr. Cemil Cicek? I agree with Mr. Cicek's view. Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu says that Mr. Zakir Kofti has been transferred because he came to CHP's dinner. That's not true. Because the dates of food and transfers are different dates, according to my information.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0115par0322	You did it six months later, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0114par0323	You also know that Mr. Kilicdaroglu, the chairman of the Dianet Affairs Department, met with Mr. Kilicdaroglu in Ramadan and invited him to Kutlu Birth Weeks. I mean, it's absolutely wrong for a member of the Court to be appointed because he went to a dinner like this, while the president of the Dianets himself invited Mr. Kilicdaroglu to attend the events of Diyanette, while the relations continue at this point. It's not accurate information, it's just in the rotational framework, and the rotation is being applied for the first time -- as I know it. Now, all of the timers are on rotation, so we don't want to give up rotation at that point because we need that service elsewhere in Turkey. We're short-staffed and this rotation application will continue in the following phases. The law on age decisions came out of this place, but those whose judicial path was closed took advantage of it, and they did not have the means to benefit those who were open to the judiciary. There are friends who have also visited me on this subject, and I've had some talks with them, but right now, we haven't reached a specific decision yet, but the issue is being followed by us, as well, I can express it. Mr. Tanal, regarding the appointment of the imams as principal... this information is absolutely false information, not accurate information. It is not legally possible for the imam to be appointed principal. I mean, there's no such appointment from the Bible, not literally, not legally or legally, but the Bible has already denied it. We've been asked about a written question proposal, and we've answered it, so maybe you'll remember it, so there's no such thing. It's not actually possible, and it's not legally possible. There's no such imam in the Ministry of Religious Affairs, but if there is, if you give us the information, we'll be curious, we'll find out. Mr. Öğüt asked about the announcement of the President of Religious Affairs. The truth is, of course, it's a natural right for Parliament to criticize, evaluate the religious budget, everyone will do it. There will be those who say, "Let it be better." There will be those who say, "More." I see it as a statement that exceeds the intent of our President of Religious Affairs, in fact, I wish he hadn't used such a statement, but he did. As a matter of fact, he could have said it differently, and I think he's out of his league. It's about the Yozgat Deputy Muftü -- the friends have graded me, in front of me -- the investigation has begun, and I think it's at the end of the line right now. An investigation has been launched, not a complaint. The proper disciplinary procedures will be applied to him. No one has to worry about that. There were things that Mr. Yilmaz had to say about Mollah's appointment, about his appointment to the Angel. Of course, we did it because of a need. I mean, there are people in the area who are well-grown, who have studied religion outside of knitting, but who have real merit, and there are people in society who have dignity. These are the ones who have succeeded in a test. They were appointed after a certain service education. So what we're looking at here is a step, an important step, a step that we think is going to be a lot of good that we're aiming for. Are you planning to open the madrases? We have no such thought, and there is no such thing, and there is no madrasa in Turkey. Yes, I'll answer the other questions in writing.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0116par0331	Koran courses, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0114par0332	After Ali Bey's answers. We're interrupting. If you don't mind, I'll answer your balance if there's time, or I'll answer in writing.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0116par0333	And you're not giving me the writing, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0117par0334	Here you go, Mr. Babacan.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0118par0335	Thank you. I would like to respond specifically to a few points mentioned by the speaker, who has spoken against him on behalf of himself. So he used statements, Mr. Speaker, as if the budget he was talking about was not the budget of the Republic of Turkey, but the budget of another country, another state. Look, it's a public budget; it's the nation's budget. If people didn't have a budget, would 68.1 billion dollars pay for education? The number one expense, the education budget, it's ours. Health: Our health budget is 67.9 billion. Social benefits: 26.4 billion at the highest point in the history of the Republic. Not just the number, but the share of the budget has reached number one right now. Now, an expression such as the unemployment budget was used. Would this be the first time in the history of unemployment in Turkey to go below OECD averages? Of all the members of the International Labour Organization, Turkey was the fastest to reduce unemployment. As unemployment increases in many countries, employment decreases, Turkey has millions of new jobs. This four-million-dollar employment is 1.5 million women's jobs, so we'll definitely not be able to accept these statements, as if this speaker was living somewhere else and not in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0119par0341	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0342	Mr. President, I'm sorry. To the question I asked, Mr. Minister, he said, "I'll give you the right information about him -- that's a tease -- according to Article 69." I can't do this.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0121par0344	He said it's not true.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0122par0345	Mr. Tanal, please, no, we don't have that kind of procedure, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0346	Sir, look, I'll give you an example. If there is, let us know...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0122par0347	No, Mr. Tanal, we don't have that kind of procedure, so under the Civil Code, please...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0348	Look, Mr. President, what's wrong is...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0122par0349	Mr. Tanal, we don't have that kind of procedure. Please be seated.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0350	The minister is lying to me.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0122par0351	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0352	But it's false information, and I'll tell you the truth.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0123par0353	The Department of National Education denied it, and so did we. Two ministries say there isn't.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0354	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0124par0355	Now, I'm going to have you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the third round, respectively.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0356	Mr. President, Mr. President, look, I'm going to open up the discussion of procedure because of this attitude of yours.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0124par0357	Mr. Tanal, after Mr. Secretary's statement, after his reply...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0358	You're not looking at us.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0124par0359	What do you mean you're not looking? Mr. Tanal, come in. I told you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0360	Because of your attitude, I'm starting a legal debate.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0124par0361	No, I mean, what do you want to do? What are you going to discuss, Mr. Tanal?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0362	Mr. President, you can't call me "you," you have to call me "you."
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0125par0363	Sit down, for God's sake.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0124par0364	Mr. Tanal, would you please...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0365	I invite you to follow the speech of the House.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0124par0366	Wait a second...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0367	Because of your attitude, I'm starting a discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0126par0368	You want it to open.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0124par0369	Please take the minutes, examine them, and I didn't call you, you're making yourself what you didn't hear.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0370	Let's take a look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0124par0371	Well, look at you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0372	Plus, because of your attitude, I'd like to open up a legal debate.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0124par0373	No, because of what attitude?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0374	Sir, the Minister tells me that what Mr. Tanal has said is a lie.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0127par0375	Look at the records, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0376	I wanted a promise to fix it. What do you call me without looking at me?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0377	No, it's not, it's not, that's what you think.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0378	It casts a shadow on your neutrality. I'd like to open up a legal debate in this regard.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0129par0379	That's no way to argue, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0380	Mr. Tanal, we're doing 20 minutes of QA. In ten minutes, the MPs will ask their questions, and in ten minutes, the ministers will answer their questions. Mr. ministers, after you have given your answers, there is no request for an explanation, no request, as required by our Civil Code, that's why I said it.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0381	Mr. President, if there's something illegal in the Civil Code, it means it's free. There's no such thing as "no questions asked" in the Civil Code. So the positive law here didn't regulate such a restraining order. Since it's not arranged, your orators, if there's bullying, if there's a sentence that touches your personality, if it's hurtful, take it. It's comfortable, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0382	But you didn't ask for a taunt, you asked for an explanation.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0383	I didn't want an explanation, he lied to me. He said, "It's teasing, who's my personality...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0384	No, but I'm not going to review the transcripts, Mr. Tanal. You asked for an explanation.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0385	It's not, Mr. President. I mean, from you, please, I mean, about this, to make it right, because of this bullying...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0386	But, Mr. Tanal, we don't have that kind of procedure, so you're bringing up something that doesn't exist.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0387	Sir, according to 69...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0388	Then the House won't work, the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0389	Look, I want words according to 69. It's comfortable there, about teasing...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0390	I give you your position, here you go, one minute, I promise.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0391	Well, that's...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0392	It's not polite, but look, please...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0120par0393	You waste time, you waste time, just as the budget is wasted.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0395	Please, Mr. Tanal, sit down and...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0130par0396	Mr. President, if you read 69, you don't have to promise.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0397	That's not true, Mr. Tanal, I promise, but the truth is...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0131par0401	Mr. President, I condemn you first! It's not true. You're saying...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0402	And I condemn you, Mr. Tanal!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0131par0403	You say it's not true, I condemn you!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0404	And I condemn you!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0131par0405	I'd like to open up a very comfortable, procedural discussion in terms of your attitude, because you've cast a shadow on your neutrality.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0406	No, if you read the Civil Code, you'll know I'm doing the right thing.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0131par0407	You don't know the Civil Code, you don't know it.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0408	Let's take advantage of your high knowledge here, sir!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0131par0409	You've been here for years, you don't know the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0410	We'll take advantage of your high knowledge!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0131par0411	I'd like to open up a legal debate against you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0132par0412	Mr. President, there's no way we're going to have a formal discussion.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0413	What's the procedure argument about?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0131par0414	I'd like to take a stand against you, I'd like to open up a legal debate.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0132par0415	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0416	What are you going to argue about, Mr. Tanal?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0131par0417	You, you...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0418	No, there's no reason, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0131par0419	Look, I'd like to open up a formal debate over your attitude and your words against me.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0420	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0131par0421	What do you say, as Speaker...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0422	You'll want the transcripts of my words against you, and then we'll bring in the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0131par0423	Look, as the Speaker of Parliament, you say, "Sir, there is no such decree in the Civil Code, but...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0424	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0131par0425	I make such a promise. Are you giving it to me out of your father's pocket?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0426	No. On what basis do you want it?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0131par0428	You promise me from your father's pocket?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0429	No, I'm giving according to the Civil Code. Please, Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0131par0430	I am the deputy of the people here, the MP of the people. The budget is being discussed here, you're hiding the budget from the public.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0431	Mr. Tanal, if your intention is not to run the House, it's something else.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0131par0432	My intention is to give the public the wrong information the Minister has given them correctly.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0433	There is no such rule in the Civil Code, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0131par0434	Look, Mr. President, our Aksaray County doesn't have nine village teachers. You've appointed imams in villages as managers. The mosque of the village is imam-free, and the school is without teachers. I want to give you this information, so you've left mosques without imams and schools without teachers. So that's the budget you're making.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0435	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0131par0436	In that sense, it's unfair that you don't make promises. The Minister is lying, and you're lying.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0437	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I don't make promises that aren't in the Civil Code, thank you. [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security: Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) The President of Disaster and Emergency Management, the Central Management Budget of 2013 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) The chairman of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, the Central Management Budget of 2013 2) The President of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, Central Management Final Account for 2011 T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman for Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, the Central Management Budget of 2013 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) The Treasury Undersecretary's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Banking Editor and Control Agency Central Management Budget 2013 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board Central Management Budget 2013 2) Capital Market Board 2011 Central Management Final Account Yes, and now, in order...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0133par0471	Mr. Secretary, I need to make a statement. The minister is lying, he says.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0472	Please, Mr. Secretary, no. It's no different than Mr. Tanal. Your words, please. We don't have that kind of procedure, Mr. Secretary, no.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0133par0473	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0474	Mr. Secretary, the QA is complete. You have no right to ask for an explanation and explain. I've told this to Mr. Tanal. It's not right. Now, I'm going to read separate sections of the budgets in the third round, respectively, and I'm going to put them to your votes. I submit to your votes that the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security shall be transferred to the section of the 2013 budget:
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0134par0479	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0480	I'm not voting yet, so I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0134par0481	I understand you're voting, and we're asking for a roll call. Let's put it on the record.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0482	Well, okay.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0135par0483	You're looking ahead, Mr. President. Look at our eyes for a moment. Look us in the eye, look us in the face, don't be afraid.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0484	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Diğün, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Çam, Mr. Ören, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Light, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Oz. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, the meeting is enough and accepted. [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security: Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) The President of Disaster and Emergency Management, the Central Management Budget of 2013 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) The chairman of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, the Central Management Budget of 2013 2) The President of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, Central Management Final Account for 2011 T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman for Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, the Central Management Budget of 2013 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) The Treasury Undersecretary's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Banking Editor and Control Agency Central Management Budget 2013 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board Central Management Budget 2013 2) Capital Market Board 2011 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0136par0520	Yeah, how'd it get in? Those who don't... those who don't... didn't... you didn't say.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit02spe0128par0521	Correction. Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, I submit to your votes for the transfer of the central management budget in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 07.97) KAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security: Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 03 Public Order and Security Services 20.272,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 20.272,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Undersecretary of Public Order and Security was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. Undersecretary of Public Order and Security in 2011, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, Central Management Final Account for 2011 I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 15.098,000.00 Budget Expenses 7.507.689.16 The grant goes to 47.34 Cancelled Fund 7.590.358,18 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Undersecretary of Public Order and Security was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2011. I submit to your votes that the president of the disaster and emergency administration shall take part in the central management budget in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 07.96) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT 1) The President of Disaster and Emergency Management, the Central Management Budget of 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 9.336,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 202.178,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,150,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 19,3390.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 694,965,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 927,019000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairman of the disaster and emergency administration has been accepted into parts of the central management budget in 2013 I'd like to submit to your votes that the President of Disaster and Emergency Management shall be transferred into the section of the final account of the central administration in 2011: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 2,949,569,941,00 Budget Expenses 2,705.809.211.98 Canceled Fund 243,760,729,02 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The head of disaster and emergency management was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2011. I'd like to submit to your votes that the President of Religious Affairs shall be transferred to the central management budgets of 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 07.86) THE PRESIDENT OF DISCOVERY 1) The chairman of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, the Central Management Budget of 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 35.372.500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 189,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.370.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 773.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4,560.104,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 880,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 4,604,649.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Religious Affairs was adopted in 2013 as part of the central management budget. I'd like to submit to your votes that the National Executive Account of 2011 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The President of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, Central Management Final Account for 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance is 2,957,877,500,00 Budget Expenses 3.392.977.569.34 Emancipation Expenses 458.307.866,31 Canceled Fund 23.207.796.97 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The chapter of the central management account of 2011 was adopted. The chairman of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2013 will be moved to its sections: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.32) Turkish Employment and COORDINIASYON AJANSI Vice President 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 99,220,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 501,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 99,791.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 40,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 98,291000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 1,460.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 99,791.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. President of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration of 2011 be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency 2011 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 86,987,860,73 Budget Expenses 74,523,022.05 Emancipation Expenses 41,448,41 Canceled Fund 7.319.122.30 Transferred to the Next Year 5,187,164,79 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Expenses 77,629000,00 Net Collection 71,674,402,74 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The head of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2011. I would like to submit to your votes that the president of the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys will be transferred to the central management budget in 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.51) THE PRESIDENT OF THE YURTDISH ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTIONS 1) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, the Central Management Budget of 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 44,011.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 300,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 122,900,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 167,211.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 450,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 166,721.000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 167,211.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The presidency of the Turkish and Relative Community abroad was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. I submit to your votes that the President of the Foreign Turks and Relatives Associations, in 2011, the final account of the central administration, shall be transferred to the chapters of the final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkeys abroad and Relative Communitys Final Account for Central Management in 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 26.061.336.83 Budget Expenses 23.338.592.51 Canceled Fund 2,722,744,32 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 18,660,000.00 Net Collection 17.741.996,91 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The final account of central management was adopted in 2011 by Turkish and Relative Community abroad. Undersecretary of Treasury, I submit to your votes for the transfer of the central management budget in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 07.82) AGREEMENT 1) The Treasury Undersecretary's Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 55,808,045,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 911. All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 11.677.334,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 1,285,447,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 3.050,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 71,821,737,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Treasury Undersecretary was adopted in 2013 as part of the central management budget. Undersecretary of Treasury, I'd like to submit to your votes to the chapters of the central management account in 2011: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 57,856,819,987,00 Budget Expenses 51.921.918.129.57 Canceled grant 5,934,901,857,43 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 313,700,705,02 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Treasury Undersecretary was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Banking Editing and Investigating Board of Directors of the 2013 Central Management budget will be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 42.04) THE BUILDING AND EXPERIENCE OF BANCY 1) Banking Editor and Control Agency Central Management Budget 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 10.916,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 189,084,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 200,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 05 Other Incomes 200,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 200,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Banking and Editing and Control Agency was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2011 will be transferred to the chapters of the Banking Editing and Investigation Agency: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2011 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total Payment 140,000,000.00 Budget Expenses 73,406,354.90 Cancelled Fund 66,593,645,10 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 140,000,000.00 Net Collection 137.079.349.98 (B) All those in favor of the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Banking Editing and Control Agency was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Capital Market Board of 2013 will take part in the central management budget: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.03) PIECE OF PIANO 1) Capital Market Board Central Management Budget 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 38,287,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.295,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 50,928,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 95,150,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 75,159.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 20,351000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 95,150,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The Capital Market Board was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Sermaya Market Board's central management account of 2011 will be transferred to its chapters: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Capital Market Board 2011 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 166,976,486.00 Budget Expenses 155.210.257.48 Canceled Fund 11.766.228.52 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] The overall total is 78,168,000,00 Net Collection 154.506.638,73 Ret and Returns 1,162.714,61 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. In this way, the Office of the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, the President of the Afet and Emergency Management, the President of Dianet Affairs, the Chairman of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, the Undersecretary of Treasury, Banking Editing and Controlling Institutions and the Central Government budgets of the Capital Market in 2013 were adopted. I wish him well. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0128par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the Central Central Management Budget Act for 2013 and with the Central Management Law for 2011. [[Continue]] 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Justice Department Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association for Prisons 2013 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons Cut Central Management 2011 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey's Justice Academy Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2011 E) AGENTS AND AGENTS ARE BUILDING 1) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Labour and Social Security Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Ministry of Labor and Social Security Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The President of the Occupational Qualification Board for 2013 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Occupational Qualification Board for 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey and Middle East Amme Administration Institute Central Management Budget 2013 2) Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration Institute Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The State Staff President's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 The commission and the government are in place. The fourth round includes the Ministry of Justice, Punishment and Execution Institutions and the Association for Business Homes of Prisons, the Justice Academy of Turkey, the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, the Association for Occupational Qualities, Turkey and Middle East Amme Administration Institute, the budgets for the President's Staff. Members of parliament, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour can enter the system. In the fourth round, I read the names of the members who were spoken for by their groups and individuals: On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Murat Bozlak, Adana MP; Ertugrul Kürkcu, Mersin MP; Sebahat Tuncel, İstanbul MP. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group; Atila Kaya, İstanbul MP; Oktay Özturk, Erzurum MP; Mustafa Kalaycı, Konya MP; Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, Isparta MP. On behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group; Ali Reza Özturk, Mersin MP; Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP; Ali İhsan Kokturk, Zonguldak MP; Ercan Cengiz, İstanbul MP; Süleyman Çelebi, İstanbul MP; İzzet Çetin, Ankara MP. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, Fehmi Küçü, Bolu MP; İlknur İnceöz, Aksaray MP; Hüseyin Cemal Akin, Malatya MP; Mustafa Kemal Şerbetcioğlu, Bursa MP; Adem Yeğildal, Hatay MP; Hasan Fehmi Kinay, Kütahya MP; Ekrem Çelebi, Ağrı MP; İlkınur Denizli, İzmir MP; Halil Özcan, Şanlıur MP; Mahmut Kokar, Şanlıurfa MP. On behalf of his people, Mehmet Altay, Uçak MP; on behalf of his members, Levent Gök, Ankara MP. Now, it's Murat Bozlak, Adana MP who wants to speak on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0137par0045	Mr. President, I have been promised to speak for the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the budget of the Justice Department, which is part of the 2013 Central Management Budget Bill. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, justice is above all in democratic countries. For the peace and trust of society, justice must be carried out effectively. In democratic law states, justice is brought to an independent, neutral, fair trial. An independent, neutral, fair judgment and the rule of law are essential to democratic societies. Especially in multi-identified, multi-religious, multicultural countries such as Turkey, the creation of an impartial, independent, everyone's trust is the most essential requirement for the establishment of a fair judicial system to ensure peace and security. Unfortunately, in our country, it seems impossible to talk about such a judicial system yet. In my opinion, the most obvious indication of whether or not the judiciary is independent is whether or not there are private courts in a country protecting the state and board order in that country. If we take this as a measure and make an assessment, we can see in Turkey today that the judiciary has not been neutral and independent since the founding of the republic, that the trials have not been done fairly, that they are clearly, in its nakedest form. In this country, private courts, which have been launched with territorial courts since the founding of the republic, have been changed from time to time in the process, but have always existed without a fundamental change. The Yassıada Court, the martial law courts, the state security courts, the heavy criminal courts of special officials, and for the time being, the special district courts are private courts that have been held in succession in our country. The duty of these courts is to protect the sacred state and the establishment of the state from its citizens. The duty of these courts is to judge and punish those who oppose official state ideology. The task of these courts is to judge and imprison those who resist government-based persecution and injustice. What have these courts done in this country? I'll tell you right away: they've damaged our democracy, destroyed our democracy, eliminated the right to a fair trial, eliminated the independence of the judiciary, caused the citizen to lose confidence in the courts, they've become executioners of freedom of thought and expression. What else did these courts do? These courts have sent Sheikh Said, Seyit Reza, and Atef Hodja of Sazil. These courts have handed over the prime minister and ministers of this country to the executioners. These courts have sent Deniz Gezmişi, Yusuf Aslan, Hüseyin İnan, Erdal Eren, and many beautiful people to the gallows. These courts are the leader of the 1982 fascist coup of Kenan Evref, hang one on the right, one on the left, and they have carried out the order immediately. These courts, dear friends, are the courts that lost to Turkey as a summation. How can we say that in our country, which has never been released from these courts throughout the history of the Republic, the judiciary is independent, it's neutral, there's a fair trial? Who could say that? What kind of a lawyer has a conscience to say that? Let's face it, we're a registered country with decisions made by the European Court of Human Rights on judicial independence. Unless special courts are eliminated, judicial independence will never, ever happen. Mr. Secretary, if you are in favor of the independence of the judiciary, instead of changing the name of these courts, bring to Parliament an arrangement to eliminate these courts. A government that favours independence of the judiciary must first eliminate these special courts. Since the founding of the republic, the esteemed lawmakers have served as many individuals as Minister of Justice in governments. Those of them who do good deeds remember and remember with gratitude our people. And our people have never forgotten the wrong people. Turk is the sole master of this country, the sole owner. Those who are not of pure Turkish bloodlines have only one right in this country, the right to be a servant, the right to be a slave. That's how our people remember the famous racist Minister of Justice, who said, "Friends and enemies, even mountains, should know this truth." Our people will never forget the Minister of Justice, who proudly said he had done a thousand operations during the day of the unsolved murders. The people will not forget the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Justice, who did not act in the face of the killing of 10 prisoners in Diyarbakır Prison with spiked planks, and who ordered the operations of 32 prisoners and prisoners to die as a result of operations held at the same time in 20 prisons called "turning to life" as irony. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, although there are no longer those in the Ministry of Justice who continue this mentality today, it is also a reality that you have not learned a good lesson from the negatives of the past. To this day, injustice, unlawfulness, and injustice are all over the world. Dear lawmakers are now prisoners of over 10,000 Kurdish politicians in prisons. As a result of operations carried out under the direction of political power, under the direction of ▪KCK, six of our deputies, four of our co-captains, six of our central executive board members, 57 of our party council members, 34 of our mayors, 212 city council members, hundreds of our mayors and mayors and governors have been arrested in this period. During the AKP's rule, nearly 500 students were arrested and put in prison for setting up slogans, banners, banners for their search for democratic demands such as free education, removal of tuition. For the first time in this country, dozens of lawyers were arrested collectively for performing their professional duties during the AKP administration. Journalists, scientists, have suffered the wrath of AKP power and have been put in prison. According to the Human Rights Association's Children's Death Report, the number of children who have died in various ways by both military and military explosives from 1988 to today, according to the Human Rights Association's Children's Death Report. He died during the ten-year period of AKP's power. The 11-year-old Mazlum Akay, who was killed on August 4, 2012 by a gas bomb fired by police, was the last of the eight-year-old Seray Yavuz who died on August 6, 2012 in the hands of an object found in the Redwood village of Mush, and a few of the last children killed by soldiers on the Iranian border, who were shot to death by soldiers on August 7, 2012. Another thing that's as bad as these deaths is that none of these children's killers were punished, especially Uður Kaymaz, who was killed by 13 bullets in his head and body when he was 12 years old. Children who were protected by the state in many prisons, especially their posin, have been raped, tortured and abused. Dear lawmakers, faith in justice has sunk. Although a year has passed since the massacre in Roboski, on December 27, 2011, there is not even a case filed against those responsible for the massacre. The relatives of the slain cry out, and no one hears them. On the eve of the massacre, Mr. Prime Minister has forgotten what he said when he said they would not allow the investigation file to disappear into Ankara's walls. The Prime Minister's silence will not remove the government's responsibility. The public must know that the government is responsible for this massacre in the first place and is the Prime Minister in charge of the government. But everyone should know that the Peace and Democracy Party will not let this go until those responsible for the massacre answer. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to share with you the two events I witnessed that bothered me as a lawyer. I visited Mr. Ibrahim Ayhan, our MP who was transferred from Urbana Prison to Adana Kürkçüler Prison, with the special permission of the Ministry of Justice, in Adana Kürkçüler Prison. When I went to prison, the warden said they wouldn't have an open opinion with Ibrahim Ayhan, and we could have a closed opinion. And when I asked him why, he said it was because of the disciplinary action he had been given at Urbana Prison. We had a closed opinion with Mr. Ibrahim Ayhan. Mr. İbrahim Ayhan is a member of parliament and has the immunity of the MP from the moment he was elected. Even the courts have no authority to punish the MP unless immunity is lifted, while the prison administration can give disciplinary action to the lawmaker, whose immunity is easily granted. It's a violation of the law. It is also evidence of the illegal conduct of prison administrations against prisoners and prisoners. Again, valuable lawmakers, in a case in which I attended the 8th Heavy Penal Court of Adana, eight arrested defendants were being tried. When the accused made a promise by the tribunal's president who asked for the word, when he said that the tribunal's president did not like it, the court chief shouted out and said, "When the soldiers attempt to take the accused, stop this time, this time the court chief! Write, my daughter: It has been decided that the detention of the defendants will continue, that the trial will be put in history and so on. Take him away. He has concluded the hearing. It's the first time I've seen such a trial in 30 years of my career. A court chief can silence the defendant because he says what he doesn't want to hear, he doesn't give any say to any of the other defendants, he doesn't get the State's Attorney's request for the continuation of the arrest, he doesn't need to take the decision of the other two judges on the committee on the matter of his decision, he can make a very arbitrary decision by violating all the rules of procedure, and unfortunately this judge is still able to carry out his mission without any investigation. Dear lawmakers will be discussed in the General Assembly before the General Assembly talks on the Penal Code and the Criminal Execution Act on the agenda of the General Assembly, while the AKP Group has submitted a motion to the end of budget talks. Since the bill envisioned the release of under a year's sentence to prisoners under probation, it put the prisoners in open prisons in expectation. I think it would be appropriate to discuss this prospect in the General Assembly before the budget talks are dropped next year, so as not to cause any unrest in prisons. My fellow lawmakers -- since there's no more time -- my fellow lawyers, my colleagues, have a wish, I'd like to share it with the Council of Directors. Lawyers have to get visas every time they have to go abroad on a normal passport. The right to give green passports to third-grade officers... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I also wish the lawyers to be recognized, and I salute you all with the desire that the Justice Department budget of 2013 will serve peace, rule of law, justice.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0138par0072	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0137par0073	Mr. President, I'm sorry, I'd like to make a correction: I've appointed a third-rate officer, and I demand that it be corrected in the form of a third-degree officer.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0138par0074	Okay, thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the 2nd speaker is Ertugrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0139par0078	Mr. President, my dear friends, we're discussing these budget pencils, but I'd like to begin by stressing that the 2013 budget law talks are in no condition to begin without being cleared by the court of the 2012 budget. Perhaps for the first time in history, the Constitutional Court has shown its way to the Budget Law. In fact, I won't hesitate to support the MPs who will take this path. Every situation where public spending is not accounted for is in itself a corruption. The history of corruption is the history of murder with the power of state, theft, deceit, injustice, and bringing water from a thousand streams to hide it. What reason do we have to regard you as above this date and time? Or do you really think you are God's shadow on earth like Sultan Solomon? Remember, it has been ninety years since that shadow was wiped out from the earth, and the children of Osman were buried in the tomb. Although the people who took their place have often imposed on the people of this land, the Alevis, the Kurds, the Arabs, the Lazlara, the Yörıks, the Ottomans, the modernity of the instigation, remember, they were buried in the waste of history, which you thought was your master. Otherwise, unless you come from the dynasty or the Agha, sir, one of you, the minister, the prime minister, the mayor, here, as the son of a boatman, Rizeli operates the engine filled between Eminönu-Karaköy, or as the daughter of a Gaziantep beaver, you'd be in a house in a sweat to feed men in the kitchen of a house. Now, if you're hoping that while we're shuffling from the authoritarian modernity of the republic, you'll be able to place Turkish chefship, one man in all of the republic's authoritarian institutions and impose on us a postmodern sultanship, which is not restricted by any law, you're wrong- However, even if the Justice Ministry budget had been properly audited by the Court, it would not stop us from saying that we had spent 2012 as a year of injustices, and that 2013 would be the same. The Ministry's budget has increased by 55 per cent, so the Minister thanks the Parliament at the committee meeting. Of course, when we look at the penal and detention budget, we see that the budget for fines and detentions has received almost nothing from this 55 per cent increase -- excuse me, the budget for the budget for the fines and detentions has received less than 5 per cent of this, so in fact this year, the inmates will be training 4 Turkish dollars a day for three meals a day. What does the budget for punishment and detentions, for humanity, for the people of this country, for the people of this country, for the people of this country, for the people of this country, for the people of this country, for the people of this country, for the people of this country, for the people of this country, who do not solve their original issues? And last year we stood on it, and we're doing it again. In Turkey, the proportion of people in prison to the general population is increasing steadily. In 1992, the prison border in Turkey was 54, which was the number of prisoners per 100,000 people; in 2004 it went up to 81, in 2010 it went up to 164, in 2012 it went up to 170, so in 20 years the proportion of people who were in prison in Turkey increased by three times as many as 100,000 people. More than 300 per cent of Turkey's population has not increased, but the population of prisons has increased. This problem tells us that an open regime of injustice is under way in Turkey, because if it weren't for citizens' conflict with the law or the dispute with citizens of the law -- which seems more accurate to me -- the population of prisons would not have increased so much. According to data from the European Court of Human Rights, the number of cases brought before the court by Turkey at the end of 2011 is 15,940, with 2,500/50 of which are related to long arrests. It is calculated that the number will reach 3,500 · Global Voices by the end of 2012. Currently, there are 125,100 people in prisons at the end of May 2012, with the capacity of 116,754 people, 8,346 people, who have no beds to sleep in. We've seen this mess in every prison we've been to with the Correctional Commission. The Ministry of Justice must be trying to fix this, to build more prisons in Turkey by doing what he says he'll do, but no matter how many prisons he does, he won't be able to eliminate all these problems as long as injustice reigns. The increase in the number of people in these prisons is directly related to the functioning of the justice system. This justice system, run by the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors, is the chief source of the great source of injustice in Turkey. Everything stems from the actions of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. We often criticize the government, but I'm increasingly convinced that the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors tends to step forward within the state bodies, to make the process of custody created by the military in the past as a guardianship of judges now. When their own interests were required by these judges, the government, who made laws on which public officials could not be touched, had to go on the road to dismiss prosecutors who had to press the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors who had to press charges against their own officers. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors operates the mechanism behind all the illegalities that continue today in Turkey. KCK arrests could not have progressed at this rate if the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors had control, if it prevented them from controlling their own judges properly, but with the understanding of an enemy criminal law, you would consider ordinary citizens to be perpetrators, but you would consider your political counterparts as enemies who should be limited to freedom, the understanding of this enemy criminal law is based on the understanding that today is a parallel criminal law in Turkey. Just last year, the government passed a law, saying that the authorities would then justify their arrest decisions or their decision to extend the arrests. It's been over a year, but I'd like to give you some examples of the grounds for the arrest of the people who are still under arrest. Gülten Çakbaş is still serving as a prisoner in the İstanbul TK case. This is Gülten Çakbaş with Gülten Çakşaş, who was held on September 1st because of World Peace Day, and is also on the basis of a legal rally by the Istanbul Governor's committee: (It is said that Gulten Çakbaş and the suspect had made a phone call immediately after the action, that Emine Büşra had responded to the illegal act -- asking questions about the nature of the action, trying to learn the nature of the action, that Gülten Forkbaş had been interfering with the protesters with the gas. (God damn it!) That's why you're in prison! What else? Another interview from the same indictment: Cevat Akengin is on the phone with Abdullah Güyük. Hello, I opened the door. - No, don't open the door, I'm yelling at you instead and I'm yelling at you right now in the Zombie Square, so we don't want anything more than the brotherhood of the people. Cevat: Okay, I'm making the ceilings, I'm finishing them, okay? Abdullah: Okay, I'm going to go in front of the consulate and finish the act. - Okay, that's it. I'll see you later. The way it happened during the interview, the suspect's phone was detected from a cell tower near the taxi, the content of the conversation revealed that Abdullah, the suspect, was leading the illegal act, lie down! Now, that's no way to judge, that's no way to judge, that's no way to get justice. You can't put people in jail like this, you can't keep them there, you can't keep them for years and years. You've got 10,000 people in there, and you keep getting more and more in every day. When will this end? When will justice be served? Won't the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors ask these judges, "Who are you to take away a citizen's rights and freedom for no reason?" How come you're putting him to bed? He doesn't ask, he can't ask because all the courts that are members of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, they appoint, they regulate, they make the same kind of decisions. There is a Supreme Council of Supreme Courts that have been in place for 1,600 years, claiming that the land of the Purple Gabriel Monastery is the treasure of the land of the land of a temple built on the earth, while there was no treasure, while there was not even Islam. What kind of justice is that? Can you imagine something like that? But those decisions are made, they can be made. Pınar Selek... 3 counts of acquittal by the local court, 3 counts of life imprisonment by the Supreme Court. He can't resist a court order, he's giving birth. Journalists' cases... right now Turkey is the number one journalist in the world. Although Bulent Arinc denied them yesterday, the December report following the October report of the Committee for Protection of Journalists puts Turkey first with 49 prisoners and Iran second with 45 prisoners, 32 prisoners third with China. The same reasons are supported by the European Union Progress Report. Yesterday, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe issued its report on the rights of freedom of expression in Turkey, where the same concerns are shared. Now, all the freedom-seeking institutions of the world make mistakes, doesn't our government make mistakes? Yesterday, Bulent Arinc tells us: "Don't mind what they say, they're prisoners of terror." We've seen how the terror prisoner is, how the prisoner is. In Turkey, where anyone who has been abused as much as the Anti-Terror Act will find himself in prison in an instant -- just one order, one wish, just one sign from the police, where judges can make that decision, no one can tell us that they are terrorist criminals. There is an extremely ominous relationship between this judgment and the government. The Prime Minister shouts, shouts: "We've given orders to judge, they'll hold the statement." (References of the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors:) I understand, everyone understands, why they don't understand what is the President of the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors? Actually, we understand very well that you understand. The fezlekes are right behind this. Now, my dear friends, in a place where so many injustices, there is no way that the Minister of Justice can control prisons and create a human life around here. As these prisons are run by this mentality, you can't convince anyone of this justice unless one of the defendants of the rape of Kurdish children -- in these prisons -- in Poland. You can't tell the Roboski villagers that one day you'll bring justice to the Roboski villagers, until the killers in Roboski show up, but the children of Roboski are all in prison. Those who believe in that person, Abdullah Ocalan, will never, ever believe in your law, if you separate the Imralı Prison from all other prisons, and think that you can do all sorts of illegal things and not show them to anyone. If Turkey is to have a consent relationship between citizens and the state, unfortunately, our Minister of Justice's style of conflict is of no use to it. Just because his style is soft doesn't mean he'll forget his suffering. Didn't they all get up yesterday? Didn't they strike for their rights, for their people's rights? Yeah, we've seen the Justice Department try to be constructive in all of this, but is that how we judge the budget and the procedure? We're looking at real data. In Turkey, people are at odds with the state. In fact, he's at odds with the people of the state, so we can see that he intends to put his people in prison for every reason. Such a budget of justice, such an application of justice, a life based on it, cannot be in Turkey. The fight for justice continues, it will continue, and the Justice Department will work as hard as they want to limit this struggle for justice, justice will be done.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0140par0102	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the final speaker is Sebahat Tuncel, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0141par0105	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group regarding the budget of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, and I salute you all. The budget and the planning of this budget for the Ministry of Labour and Social Security directly affect the lives of 75 million people in Turkey. The AKP government currently redesigns working life on the axis of neoliberal policies. As these arrangements are being made, unfortunately, there are no measures that will improve the living standards of workers and workers, providing human living conditions. On the contrary, the workers have transformed workers into modern slaves by enforcing flexible work, subcontractorship, off-the-book, unsecured working conditions. Even the right to appeal against injustice has been taken away from the organization of workers, by setting up a series of obstacles to the organisation of workers. While the AKP's government is making a great effort to protect the boss and make the rich richer, it leaves workers who have uncovered this wealth unsanitary, unsecured, unorganised, without organisation and without future. In Turkey, however, workers, trade unions, civil society organisations and trade rooms lead to the streets and continue to fight for the rights to be hijacked and Turkey's democratisation. Recognising the power of social transformation of this struggle, the AKP is increasingly putting pressure on the ruling, opposition unions and trade organisations, using all the government's difficult and pressure tools to suppress the demands of workers. In particular, KESK, Education-Sen implements tougher policies against institutions leading the democratic struggle, such as TMMOB. At the same time, social activities and activities are being severely interfered with by security forces, while social opposition is being suppressed through the judiciary through methods such as pressure, detention, arrest. Despite all these pressures, the workers' organised struggles are not only in Turkey, but today in Egypt, Brazil, the Philippines, South America, Greece, Spain, and many of the most dynamic and organised parts of the world. The new labor movements of their own communities, based on the strength of production, distribution and change, are more important than the organisation of the working class around the world, because this labor movement is at the forefront of the struggle for democracy, freedom, equality and social justice in their own country, along with the social movement in which they are allied. Members of parliament, the area of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security is associated with social security from the entire working life, with a broad range of areas as comprehensive as labour health and unemployment and employment. When we look at the Ministry's 2013 budget, which includes work on such a large area, there is no perspective that can solve the problems of this field of influence. The Ministry of Labour and Social Security budget was reduced to $35 billion in 2011, while in 2012 it was reduced by 12 per cent to 31 billion $552m. On behalf of the Ministry of Labor, the budget for 2013 is 32 billion euros and 113 million euros. Despite dozens of problems with workers' working lives and rights violations, let's not forget that the Ministry of Labor budget has increased to meet the need, reducing the government's importance to working life is very clear. It is remarkable that 99 per cent of the ministry's budget is being earmarked for current transfer when we look at the budgets for 2013. Cari's share of the ministry's work space is almost invisible, given the fact that almost all transfers are made up of social security and social services. The budget for the working area is seen to be earmarked for staff costs, goods and services costs. Members of parliament, Mr. Minister boasts that a specific law on labour health and safety in Turkey has been issued during its administrations at the budget presentation and at every opportunity. The law, however, protects the boss, not the worker. As we look at the facts, subcontractorisation policies are becoming a target for themselves, as the labor force is flexible, the lack of control and the spread of unregistered employment, and every year, workers' deaths and injuries are increasing. Unfortunately, the AKP government seems to have forgotten that Turkey was ranked third in the world in the deaths of workers. Business accidents and business murders continue in factories, workshops, construction, mines, fields. Rather than taking deterrent measures about those responsible for business accidents and labor killings, we can see how grave it is when we look at those who have lost their lives in the work killings over the last year, since measures have actually been taken to protect the boss more. 11 workers were burned to death in İstanbul Esenyurt in the last year; 4 workers were killed in HES construction in Giresun; 4 workers were killed in an Eskişehir workshop as a result of the explosion of the dam cover in Adana Kozan district; 10 workers were killed in the copper mine in Samsun. Looking at all of this, no one responsible for these murders has ever been tried. Therefore, there is no concrete step in preventing business accidents from happening. An average of 1,072 workers lose their lives every year in Turkey, where 10,723 workers have died in the last ten years. But the real numbers are actually much higher than that. According to the Ministry, only 11 million of the 25 million employees are insured. So 14 million workers are off the books. Unregistered workers, unfortunately, work accidents remain unregistered. Congressmans, another problem in working life is occupational illness. Despite a partial legal arrangement over the course of the battle of denim roasting workers, the death of dental technicians and denim sand workers still causes death. About 10,000 workers are now at risk of death because of the prevalence of current sub-stairs businesses, where there is no safety of workers and running unsecured workers. Although the government has shut down some businesses, it is still known that these sub-stair businesses continue and that workers are exposed to dust for hours in the air. The absence of a unique legal arrangement for occupational illness, the condition of being a registered worker to benefit from legal rights, the impossible obstacles such as having a 40 per cent unemployment report, the fact that there are only three occupational hospitals in Turkey, the fact that they have to document the work of off-the-book workers, is actually the basis for preventing the treatment of occupational diseases, killings. Members of parliament, workers in Turkey are faced with practices that do not search the working conditions imposed on workers in the 20th century. Workers in today's Turkey are still struggling for many gains by the world's working class. The final working period ranges from fifty-five to fifty-nine hours a week, and more than a quarter of the employment work is over sixty hours. The policy to work for a long time without paying overtime is encouraged by the AKP government. On the other hand, there is a direct correlation between the extension and flexibleness of working hours and the increase in fatal business accidents. Working for long periods also affects the risk of occupational illness. Thus, long-term work is the reason Turkey is number one in Europe and third in the world in business accidents. The unemployment problem, which has become the most fundamental problem in the world, is one of Turkey's main problems, along with increasing poverty. The problem of unemployment and poverty is one of the most important and urgent problems of Europe today, not just Turkey. The International Labour Organization (ILO) points out that the problem has reached a critical stage in the 2012 Labour World Report. Many countries, especially Spain and Greece, are struggling with high unemployment rates, such as Italy, France. According to the report, 50 million people have been deprived of employment opportunities worldwide. Similarly, there are 25.5 million employees in Turkey according to official figures, while according to official figures, unemployment in Turkey is around 10 per cent, the ratio the unions have explained -- which is actually true because unregistered labor is 18 per cent dense in Turkey. With the economic crisis, the ILO points out that employment is failing in Europe, while it generally breaks down all over the world. Noting that unemployment is the fundamental disorder of the world economy, ILO points out that few growth figures lead to employment. Again, reports show that an increasing number of workers are employed under unstable, unsecured conditions, so the reflection of the working world, which is trying to be flexible, is negative. When we look at Turkey, 6.7 million people work unregisteredly. Another point of note in the report is that public spending -- the main argument for defending the neoliberal economy -- should be reduced by austerity policies, so that the private sector will invest more. The AKP government also implements the IMF's austerity policy, holding this general policy with four hands. The report shows that austerity policies do not cause growth, as they say, but lead to stagnation and disrupt the structure of employment. When we look at the latest 2012 quarter growth figures, only 1.6 percent of growth supports this finding. Members of parliament, the amount is 62 billion euros in unemployment funds for ten years, with cuts from the wages of workers who have officially reached 12 million. The AKP government used the money it received from workers in other areas, when it should have used it for workers. The AKP government has put up a lot of obstacles to prevent this fund from being used by workers. Only 7% of the amount was used for unemployment insurance due to conditions brought to the workers not to benefit from this fund. So where does the money from the fund go? This needs to be paid for. The AKP's government has announced that it has garnered the workers' money and incorporated it into the treasury budget as an excuse to finance the GAP project in 2009. The sole authority of your ministry is not to address the problems of the workers, but to be used as a fund where power can throw its hand when it is needed. Neither workers nor unions have any say nor authority to use this fund. Congressmans, it's the month of negotiations to set minimum wage in 2013. There are minimum wage assessments this month. And the government's increase for the first period of 2013 is 3%. The minimum wage is not only the amount a worker will receive, but it is the instrument of an effective policy in order to regulate the economic and social situation of employees, which is owned by a state. The minimum wage must therefore be set on the basis of the protection of workers from exploitation and the provision of a minimum human wage. 44% of workers working under insurance in Turkey work for minimum wage. The current minimum net fee is $773. Almost all of the workers live below this border of starvation, given that they are under $1.050, which is the hunger limit. It is clear that the government sees minimum wage policy as a way for capital to exploit labor, while the worker to be condemned to live below the age of hunger. The minimum wage must be higher than $3,335 for a family of at least 4 people, so the minimum wage must be determined at a level that is suitable for human dignity, in order to meet the employee's family and all necessary needs. Members of parliament, the concept of non-employment growth is at the core of the neoliberal policies adopted by the AKP's government. The National Business Strategy Plan, published in February 2012, is the head of policies that would break the employment structure and make the working world flexible and break the tight relationship between growth and employment. The minimum wage in the neoliberal economy is solid and plans are made for the removal of this rigor, such as having employees, protective laws and mechanisms, severance pay, and constraints of the sub-employee relationship. Here, the main goal is to create a cheap and unsecured labor force for capital, which is the basis of the national employment plan. According to the plan, temporary labor will be widespread, there will be stretching that supports subcontractorisation, which has already become a serious problem, and private employment offices will be legalised. The failure to pay off the overtime of the most recent officers on the agenda is also the result of an understanding in this framework. So rather than being a national strategy, it is a class policy that seeks to answer the needs of the employer's part and to garner the rights to labour. The argument, however, is that "Turkey labor markets are extremely strict" is incompatible with the facts. While child labor has become the world's largest problem, there are about 5.9% of the 16m,264 thousand children present in 2006, according to official data. 68.5% of these children do not continue to study. When the data on child labor is updated, it will be seen that the situation is even more severe. As we all know, many of the child laborers are employed in jobs such as shoplifting, selling, shoe painting, garbage, paper collecting. So, since there's little chance of controlling this kind of work, it's a fact that the actual numbers are way above the given numbers. Instead of preventing the exploitation of the child's labor, capitalist countries are inclined to take control, as the AKP's government is trying to do, but what they need to do is make legal arrangements to eliminate child labor and end child labor exploitation. Members of parliament, the AKP government has seen retired citizens as a huge burden on capital from the moment it came to power, so it has kept pensions at the lowest level in the history of the Republic of Turkey. The pension has been implemented, including an increase in age, to be as close to death as possible. Turkey has 10 million 227,000 pensioners, while 20 per cent of them have to work for a second job due to insufficient wages. The 800-dollar payment, even under the hunger limit of pensioners who are considered to be the black hole of the budget, is an "unacceptable" investment in AKP power. It is incompatible with the understanding of the social state that pensioners are considered to be the throwaway citizens of this society, that they are condemned to poverty. Members of parliament, the biggest problem of the AKP government's policy of flexibility -- moving -- is subcontractorisation, with its argument that the labour market is strict. In 2002, the number of subcontractors increased to 1,611,000 in 2011. The main reason for the remarkable increase in the number of subcontractors is that services are much cheaper than direct employment. Many companies, including municipalities and public institutions, are primarily installing security, cleaning, transportation services into the subcontractor. There is a ministry that tries to subcontract even the main employer's arms. Almost all of the deaths of workers predicted in the press are in subcontractors. Workers often work under very poor conditions, under low wages, with no social security. So not the one that develops subcontracts, but the policy that prevents that. Members of parliament, it is the right of workers to organize the greatest means of combat against all injustices and rights extortion. The AKP government has denied the right to organise workers, to become unionists. The union organisation rate among public workers in Turkey is 8 per cent and 3 per cent in the private sector. So most of the employees aren't union. We know that it can be a member of the Syndicate, workers. It has nothing to do with the truth. Because workers who want to become members of the union face a thousand pressures, a threat of dismissal. In the past year, BEDAŞ, GEA Klima, Savranoglu Der, Kampana, Mersina Port, Mas-Daf, Impo Motors, Snop Metal, TOGO, CEHA, CARGILL, and hundreds of other workers at work have been laid off for membership. Congressmans, when we look at the budget's preparation process, it will be seen that the budget is prepared by ignoring women who make up half the society. This year, women's organisations have also ignored the demand for gender-sensitive budgets. It is impossible for any study to succeed if it does not have the perspective of equality between men and women. From this perspective, the statement that this budget was prepared for 75 million is a lie, designed only to protect certain, privileged classes. This budget of AKP power is a budget of war and crisis. This has been expressed here every time, and we're saying it again. Thus, a budget with no account for the past term has been drawn up today from a perspective that gives employees, workers, rights and freedoms, flexible work, subcontractorization. Therefore, workers who will benefit from this budget are not workers; they are real capital. Thus, most of the 75 million people, 90 percent of them, will once again be victims. And the AKP wants to use the government to drag Turkey into a war in the Middle East. I say the people of Turkey are against it, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0142par0130	Thank you. Atila Kaya is an Istanbul MP who wants to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Your time is thirteen minutes, but how many minutes will you use?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0143par0133	I'll take ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0142par0134	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0143par0135	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the opinion of the National Movement Party Group regarding the Justice Department budget. I salute you all. Members of parliament, the Ministry of Justice's duties have been counted in Article 2 of the Law on the Ministry of Justice's Agency and its duties. The ministry's assessments have always been expected to remain within that framework. However, it is related to the existence of a ministry called justice, the functioning of its institutions, and the organisation of the services they produce, but it must prioritize the concept of justice and the rule of justice. A party that uses the concept of justice in its own name, just like the Ministry's name, should not only be open to it, but prefer to do so. Members of parliament, in the ten-year rule of a party called justice, those who are not from this party speak of justice most, and if they want justice, it must be considered. This should be considered a sign that AKP cannot penetrate the essence of justice and cannot internalize it. The presence of the ruling party in this situation is because of the primitive foundation of justice for those of us; whereas Islam is not only for Muslims, it is for everyone, but the power is in a position that cannot comprehend it. If they had a sense of history and religion, the Turkish state tradition and Islamic religion were ready to offer them all the means to implement a righteous sense of justice. Dear lawmakers, in the Turkish state tradition, limiting the sovereignty represented in the ruler's person to tradition is a result of the perception of the contents of the state as justice. This content, attributed to the concept of the state, is also a sign that it is considered a moral concept. The essence of the state is justice, and a state can only gain moral legitimacy by having such a essence. Social government understanding can only be implemented by removing from a principle such as justice. Seljuk's Veziri Nizamülmülmülk wrote about a thousand years ago in the Political Code, the heritage of a traditional mindset, a country is not destroyed by blasphemy, but by persecution. Justice in the Turks is a responsibility to his people, not to the subjects. Justice has always been considered above all beings and seen at its base. The expression of this situation has reached its character, along with the proverb I spoke. Members of parliament, the most fundamental principle of action that our supreme religion, Islam, has ordered to regulate social life is justice, and justice is the most fundamental category in our religion. Mr. Prime Minister should know that he should begin by convincing those generations to believe in the following provisions: No doubt, God commands you to hand over the trusts to his people and to rule with justice when you rule among people. And let not your hatred of a people prevent you from doing justice. Dear lawmakers, we have no doubt that Mr. Prime Minister, who boasts of being an imam orator at every turn, knows these verses, and we still have no doubt that knowing something is not enough to do it. For him, there is no change in the attitude of those in power, at least every Friday, even though they are reminded that God commands justice. Now, those who look for justice must remind and remind the Prime Minister of the verse he likes to use: Who has a heart that doesn't understand with it, who has eyes that don't see with it, and who has ears that don't hear with it? Dear lawmakers, justice, the most central concept of our religion and history, has been highlighted in our Constitution as well as under the basic objectives and duties of the state. It must not be forgotten that each of us, as lawmakers, are sworn to act in a sense of justice. Even in the framework of liberal government theory, who has no problem referring to values such as religion or history, the only thing they expect is justice when they hand over their rights and power to the state. Congressmans, as a concept, the reason why I stand on justice with such importance is to demonstrate the dramaticness of the party's ability to bend and bend the most fundamental principle and the highest concepts for its own benefit. Throughout history, the ideal goal of political authorities in each department of religion and culture has been to ensure justice. The pursuit of justice is not a guarantee of the situation, but the lack of purpose is the most important reason why the situation is not happening. The party, whose name is justice, has not only achieved justice, but has made the mechanisms of justice an instrument of persecution. It is clear that those who counsel to be the plaintiffs of hatred for the generations he will bring up will create political cases from a grudge against the community and leave the cases of the Lighthouse to be forgotten, as questionable, hidden witnesses and fabricated evidence falls. Dear lawmakers, the party, whose name is justice, would like to use the mechanisms of law to eliminate differences and to make each individual in the country look like itself. And that they had no sense of justice could have done anything better than that. Dear MPs, Augustine asked, "If justice is eliminated, what are the kingdoms but great bandits?" Robespierre said to the head of the court who tried Danton, "Your duty is not to judge, but to eliminate." These two choices do not have to be left at the borders of the West. As a matter of fact, that's how we want the power of May 27 courts to keep you here. From the judges of September 12 courts who say, "You will not look at this as a lawyer. Until the judges have received the instruction, the coup justice has revealed the importance of an independent and impartial judiciary." Whether he is a soldier or a civilian, any influence of political authority on the judiciary must be completely removed and forever blocked. In today's court, the practice that resembles coup courts must be abandoned. The trial must be carried out in a manner that will embarrass the courts of September 27th or 12th, so that the public can truly understand the difference between extraordinary coup trials and free, neutral, and fair courts. Well, who am I telling? To Turkey's Minister of Justice, who ranked 77,000 people and 2,500 experts in 97 countries with 90 percent of the world's population, in the main rights of the rule of law? The Minister of Justice, who is engaged in the infrastructure of a non-Turkish constitution, instead of worrying about it? The Minister of Justice who is trying to carry out the Kurdish opening of a government that brings a court to the foot of terrorists in Habur? The Minister of Justice, who serves to carry out the Prime Minister's political ambitions instead of justice? Or to the Minister of Justice who, along with their new law enforcement law last year, tried to sell the right justice to a people whose vast majority are poor and 20 per cent are on the verge of starvation? Yes, education, health and justice, whatever the social state requires, be paid and served by those who have money. Just ten days ago, when the Minister of National Education was trying to defend the freedom of clothing, the rich didn't go to the same school as the poor. Isn't that right? I'm responsible for selling my country. The ministers of a prime minister who says, well, it's fitting. That's what I'm saying to the public. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0144par0149	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the 2nd speaker is Oktay Ozturk, Erzurum MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I'll add three minutes that Mr. Kaya didn't use.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0145par0153	Mr. President, he's got 36 seconds.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0144par0154	You have 15 minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0145par0155	Mr. President, I'm here today to present our views on the budget of the leading actors of providing justice in a country such as the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors and the Turkish Justice Academy. I salute you all. Dear MPs are a democratic, social legal state of the Republic of Turkey under Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. There is no doubt that the jurisdiction of democratic law is used by independent and impartial courts. I wonder if that's how it is in our country. From the day when the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors was established, both members of the judiciary and the doctrine and the process of running for membership in the European Union, which we have been living in, has been criticised by unofficial or unofficial institutions and individuals from outside the country. However, the Constitutional amendment in 2010 did not put an end to the criticism of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Law, which was neither intended to implement these changes in the structure of the HSYK. The points we criticised the old board have not been removed. A few of our reasons for criticizing the former board were that there was no too much noise, no pluralism. Now, is this on the board? Not again. We were criticizing the old board for custody. Is custody off now? Unfortunately, it's going on again. It's the government's fault here. If the government had wanted to form a much more democratic and just Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, let me control the structure, for its mental state of mind. The HSYK was created in exactly the way the government wanted and according to the list that it had previously been prepared, and a person who had worked openly in the constitutional referendum to make his political preference clear and therefore was able to become a member of the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors, even one who had earned the praise of a AKP-based mayor. The HSYK is, of course, a concern for judicial independence. As a matter of fact, the existing practices of the newly formed HSYK (HSYK) have made even those who complain about the past period search for the Supreme Councils of Past Judges and Prosecutors. The Supreme Council of Judges, unfortunately, has signed remarkable applications that have not even been seen in the past in high judicial elections and appointments. The assessment of new members elected to the Supreme Court and the State at this time also makes sense. The removal of judges and prosecutors who conduct the Lighthouse and MIT investigation has led to a deep public crisis of confidence in judicial independence, for many judges and Republican prosecutors whose positions have been changed for no reason and arbitrary, who are facing cases such as Ergenekon and Balyoz, which are closely monitored by the public. In fact, the Deputy Prime Minister gives as much as God gives. He is not afraid to publicly confirm that the postings in the judiciary are political. Special authorities have sought out extraordinary times, routineized practices, accused of either being a member of the organization or a member of the organization, with imagined schematics created by non-governmental mayors, journalists, club presidents. Of course, the way a religious scholar is treated by talks that only bother someone makes them feel guilty. The length of long detention is more of a punishment than a precaution. The judgment has been made a means of establishing the authority of the government. The judge and prosecutors have been sent to the bandit's foot in Habur. The judiciary has been weakened by dignity. At some point, however, the government saw that the ropes in the judiciary were not entirely in its hands, and that other groups had significant role in the judiciary, so it tried to jump behind closed doors and take measures in its own way. The government's goal here is not to bring justice, but to establish a self-promising judgment. For the time being, the judiciary has been digested and judicial independence has become a written wish in the Constitution alone. It is also not possible for the judiciary to carry out its original duties independently. Of course, we're not the only ones who say that. International reports confirm what we say. The draft of the European Court of Judges and the European Court of Judges for Democracy and Freedom in 2012 is a unanimous report adopted by all European countries' judicial organisations. In these reports, the legal amendments in terms of judicial independence, the right to fair trial and the guarantee of a judge, so-called reforms on the basis of judicial improvement, are, on the contrary, very negative results. They stress that the amendments to the judiciary after 2002 have revealed a pro-government picture. According to a survey by İstanbul Bilgi University a few years ago, confidence in the judiciary has dropped to 42 per cent. We were wondering what it would look like if there was a survey today. What do you feel most lacking in our assessments of the provinces we visited during the work of the Constitution? When asked what is needed most, we received the answer of justice. A philosopher must be tested by action in order to transform thought into knowledge. Those who argued that the changes were not enough but that they had produced better structures than before were disappointed by the decisions of the HSYK. It is painful that after the election, there were no statements of objective, impartial, fair and equitable practices that the board had announced. Dear lawmakers, we feel that the measures for the prevention of political and executive power channels should be taken and restructured in an effort to ensure the independence and neutrality of the judiciary in a way that is free of doubt. In this framework, we can gather reviews of HSYK under four main topics. These are the establishment of judicial boards and the selection of members, judicial control of the board's decisions, the board's services to the secretary and budget, the control of judges and prosecutors. Our concrete suggestions to eliminate these criticisms are as follows: The Undersecretary of Justice shouldn't be on the board as a natural member. We believe that members who will be elected by the president should be chosen by the Turkish Grand National Assembly for the most part. Another criticism of the HSYK after the 2010 Constitutional Amendment is that the elected members can be re-elected after their mandate expires. And at this point, we think it's pretty unhealthy because we think about how fair his decisions can be, considering his next election. Instead, the time may be six years, but we think it's more accurate that they're chosen only once. The decision of the ruling boards of judges is ultimately effective in the legal situation of individuals. For this reason, though the majority are members of the judiciary, the reason for the administrative role and the rule of law is that the decisions of the judicial boards are subject to judicial control or effective supervision by another authority outside the decision-making office, in international documents and modern legal systems. As for the council's budget of 2013, even though there was no regulation on the Council's budget, HSYK Law No. 6087 shall be conducted with its own budget, but there is no clearness on how to make the budget and who to determine it by. In accordance with the third joke of Article 44 of the law, the President -- the Minister of Justice -- represents the Council in the talks on the budget; the Vice President and members of the Council cannot be invited to make a statement. This is an indication that the members of the Supreme Court cannot directly influence their budget. On the other hand, the European Council's Council of Ministers' recommendation, dated 2010, envisions consultations with the professional organisations of the courts and/or judges, if there are judicial boards or other independent authorities responsible for the administration of the courts, while drafting the budget of the judicial system. Again, the board must have its own resources on the budget, and it must be able to manage them independently. If the council does not have a budget of its own, it is thought that authorities holding resources may try to shorten them and influence the board. As a result, we feel that as long as the HSYK operates unbiasedly, their needs should be met by our government. As long as they're just. And if there is justice in a land, there is no fear in it. But that's where we need to look for the reason why every second of us is in fear today. Congressmans, I'd like to address the matter of the Justice Academy. The most important task of the Academy of Justice is the training of judges and prosecutors. The Justice Academy should make training programs so that judges and prosecutors should make decisions that will only reveal rights, not in their opinion or in the interests of the group they have a right to. For the moment, the Justice Academy is completely under the control and control of political power. They are members of the General Board of Justice, Minister of Justice, Undersecretary of the Ministry, Director of Criminal Affairs, General Director of Laws, General Manager of the European Union, Chief of Staff, Chairman of Education, Justice Academy. The judge and the republic's prosecutor's nomination oral exam is being conducted by the Justice Department. The written exam is being conducted by the S.E.A.P. The candidates are doing an important portion of their internship at the Justice Academy under the control of the Justice Department. Of course, that's how the system works, and it's like the only kind of judge who's out of the tornado is bound to be raised as a prosecutor. It also makes sense for those who have expressed their discomfort before to go into silence once they've taken the helm. In fact, there is another danger. Here's the thing: The judge is running for D.A.'s office for the Department of Justice. These candidates are trained at the Justice Academy under the control of the Ministry of Justice, the HSYK, which is created by the power, accepts these candidates and elects HSYK members by voting for the list created by the Ministry of Justice by the so-called unbiased vote when they are assigned to the job. Thus, the HSYK is a member of the higher courts in carrying out the transfers, promotions, disciplines and so on. As you can see, it's a two-pronged cane. Well, of course, what's the point of complaining? Dear MPs, as you know, Turkey has recently been shaken by a scandal. The judge was involved in the prosecution's written exams, and the D.E.A. had to cancel his questionable exam. Although the Turkish judiciary, which is alleged to be extremely independent, has made a decision to sign a very fair decision to stop the execution of this test, but it is a shame for our country that even the trial of the people to pass justice has been questionable, so judges, prosecutors are taking results in the trial, and then they will go on the stand and hand out justice. That would only be the justice of a ten-year-old understanding. I wonder what people who talk about the subject really understand about the concept of right of the subject. What's this called, if it's not a meal? I want to finish my words with the hope that there will be an example: Justice can only be born from truth and happiness only from justice. The one who commits injustice is more miserable than the one who draws it. I salute you all with the hope that justice will cease to be the justice that fosters the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0146par0190	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mustafa Kalaycı is a Konya MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0147par0194	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The International Memorial Festival of the Vuslat anniversary of the 739th Vuslat is being held in the province of Konya. The memory of death to the beloved, the day of the resurrection to the Lord, the day of death, the day of death, the night of your wedding, the name of the Mazreti Mavlana, is at his mercy, and I wish that man, nature, and God's great ideas, will forever enlighten mankind. On the night of the final day of the vuslat anniversary events held in Konya, the Shebiarus programme will take place on 17 December 2012, but with the contributions of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality, the news of the Shebiarus ceremony in İstanbul on Saturday (December 15th) has come as a shock and has rightly caused the Konians' reaction. I call upon the Prime Minister and the government to stop these ceremonies outside of Iconia. No one has the right or the right to perform alternative Shebiarus ceremonies. Just as the memorial activities of Ertuğul Gazi have been held in Süğüt, İstanbul's conquest events in İstanbul, Hacı Bektashi Veli, Hacı Bektatata, Hazreti Mevlana, Üslat, and Shebiarus events have been held for over 50 years and uninterrupted in the land and home of Mavlana. Let the work be done at all times and everywhere to understand the Holy Land, to shed light on all mankind, to pass on the philosophy of love, tolerance, to future generations, but let the event of the remembrance of the Lord continue, and the Shebiarus program, in all its glory, to be carried out in Konya. I invite all the Konians, especially my friends, to take care of the Holy One, the Shebiarus. Dear lawmakers, I'm going to discuss the budget of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. As budget talks continue here, we, the Plan and Budget Commission, completed talks yesterday on a bill on some issues that have entered the Ministry of Labor's field. It will be held shortly at the General Assembly. They rushed me so fast, we had Sunday talks on the commission. If we don't know the Minister of Labor, if we don't know it, he believes in May, and on December 21st, he wants to get this bill out before the apocalypse breaks. But we all know, and we all believe that when the Hour comes, it's in the grace of the Lord. So what's the rush? There are arrangements that our citizens have been waiting for. But we've seen in the commission talks that the main reason for this rush is to solve problems with the law as a result of the government's misemployment policies. In addition to these issues, a month later, there were arrangements for the benefit of our citizens, where there was no loss. I won't go into the details of the bill, we'll see each other when it comes, but it's not part of the bill that the workers have been waiting for the pilgrim, the prime minister and ministers, the many times given promises and hopes, the arrangements that hundreds of thousands, even millions of employees have hoped for, the inequalities and injustices of working life. More recently, both Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc and the Labour Minister have voiced hope for the return of the rights of the press workers' share. As it is known, these rights of press employees for half a century have been issued, as well as the rights of their actual service, as well as the rights of their disbursement, in Article 40 of Law 5510, which was adopted in 2006, while it was adopted in 2008, 5754, as well as the rights of press workers. We have also submitted a motion to the National Movement Party on this matter, but it has not been adopted into the bill. He is the Prime Minister who has promised the contractors a staff, primarily municipalities and municipal private administrations. It is also the Labour Minister who explains that the prime minister has an expression on the television channel, that the contractors are being staffed, and that we can bring this up in the Council of Ministers in front of us months ago. As it is known, it has been foreseen for the appointment of contracted personnel to the officers of the 632th Amendment, which was issued a week before the June 12, 2011 elections. However, around 200 contractual, civil servants were appointed, while several state-owned employees and 4/C victims, particularly private administrations and municipalities, were not recruited. The commitments to the contractors are unfortunately ignored. Again, there are many technical staff in particular working positions in municipalities, and they expect their victims to be compensated. 11 months a year, no job guarantees, and the promise of family assistance for 4/C/C personnel who try to survive underpaid is also forgotten after the election. The contract, which has not been received from other contractors, is even received from the 4/C. Some contractors have been violated by the principles of equality and justice guaranteed by the Constitution, not by the rights provided to other public contractors. The AKP government also implements subcontractorisation, which resembles medieval mentality, as the basis of its policy. The subcontractors are slaved for 12 hours a day, free of human working conditions, without job guarantees, without union, without a permit and without overtime. Excessive subcontractorization with profit logic is unacceptable. The Minister of Labor, such as slavery of the Tabheron, has confessed and explained that they were being studied, but nothing has ever been done except once in a while. With each passing day, their problems must be maintained, their working conditions and rights must be improved. Subcontractors employed in the government's original and continuous services must be assigned to the staff. There is also a drama in our country under the name "Temporary" and "Strengthwork." Hundreds of thousands of workers are laid off during certain periods of the year, despite the fact that the state is doing its original and continuous work. On the eve of the 2007 elections, about 220 000 temporary workers were given a position with Law 5620, which envisions the recruitment of temporary workers, but for years, temporary or seasonal workers, especially in sugar and tea factories have not been recruited. Mr. Prime Minister, five years ago, we were upset by the situation of about 20,000 temporary workers who were left behind. We hope that this temporary worker will be able to solve the problem of our brothers and sisters. There's almost no one left who doesn't promise the Mukhtars that their rights will be improved. In fact, when I retire, I think I can run for mayor in a village. It's been months since his statement, and years of promises haven't been made, and our leaders have always been deceived. As it turns out, what the AKP government knows best and does is to cheat, discriminate, keep its promise and to lie on it. Dear lawmakers, public workers need transfers from one public institution to another for common-law reasons or other reasons. However, public workers, such as other public employees, cannot be assigned to other public institutions and institutions. This leads to inequality among public employees. There must be a solution to the problems of public workers in the transfer process. I'm afraid our bill as the National Movement Party is off the table. Another group of people looking for a solution to their problems are the victims of an internship, who are called our citizens. According to Law 5510, employees who work as apprentices or interns are considered insured on the one hand and are considered to be the starting date for the job as apprentices or interns, while those rights, on the other hand, are limited to only short-term insurance arms, causing inequality and victimization. In practice, some of them may be in debt for some periods, such as labor or insurance, non-seminal leave, doctoral or expertise, and practice. Taking into consideration the principle of equality of the Constitution, the right to borrow, in fact, the right to work and internships based on actual employment and insurance, should also be taken into account, as well as the start date of insurance. Those who live in retirement also seek their rights, asking for an arrangement that will ensure the removal of their victims. According to the legislation that is in effect on the day they begin, an arrangement must be made to compensate for the number of days to pay and the number of days to be insured, the victims of our citizens who are looking for age for retirement. As all political parties in parliament, we can find a solution to this problem. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm going to address the issue of chronic unemployment in our country. The Labour Minister has recently announced that there is no unemployment in Turkey. I'm reading from the Plan and Budget Commission reports: See, let me just say there's unemployment. You say there's a buildup around ISKUR. I'm saying the opposite. Turkey has no unemployment. Look, that's what I'm saying, you can make the headlines. So let's make the headline: The Minister of Labor doesn't know whether to count or what unemployment is. When there are millions of unemployed today, it is a disgrace to the AKP's government, which has been running the country for more than a decade, if our employers are having trouble finding some qualified employees or even finding them. Now, let's look at the 2012 statistical bulletin of November 2012, published by Turkey's Employment Association on unemployment. The number of employees registered to the institution is 3 million 461,301, while the number of job seekers is 2,307,368 registered unemployed. İSKUR considers the rest of them unemployed by removing job seekers, pensioners, and people who want to work at a certain workplace under better conditions than registered labour. According to the same period last year, the number of job seekers increased by 65 per cent, 1 million 368 thousand people, and the number of unemployed by 30 per cent, 533,000. 693 000 of registered unemployed are body workers, while the rest are unemployed looking for jobs in various professions. Again, 421 000 registered unemployed are university graduates, 8.546 are master's and 379 are doctorates. 45% of registered unemployed are expected to be put to work for more than a year. Apparently, the Minister of Labor has no knowledge of the figures of his own institution. These are unemployed, Mr. Minister, thanks to my father. The AKP government has no fathers or uncles. The AKP ministers probably look around and think there's no lack of employment when they see people who own a company and holding, who sail, who sell corn, who sell gold and diamonds, who are media bosses, who run their business, their in-laws and relatives, who run their business, like Aaron, who come in ten years and run their business. The Finance Minister agreed that unemployment is still one of Turkey's main problems, and said that employment has also achieved success. It contradicts the fact that unemployment is the main problem and that there is great success in employment. And the Prime Minister said that from the second quarter of 2009, they've given additional jobs to 4 million people so far. Our economy has been reduced by 14.7 per cent in the first quarter of 2009, 7.8 per cent in the second quarter, with historical records broken in shrinking and unemployment, and so has employment. The Prime Minister compares such a period to today and talks about success. I wish the budget to be a blessing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0148par0223	Thank you. The last speaker, Süleyman Nevzat Korkmez, isparta MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I'll add one minute that Mr. Ozturk didn't use, and you have 11 minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0149par0227	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the budgets of the esteemed MPs, the State Staff Chairman and the Institute for Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration. I salute your high council. A powerful government agency needs a public administration that produces quality and efficient services and makes fast decisions, and a well-developed bureaucracy. The government's Chief of Staff is established to ensure that public personnel produce services within an understandable, fair, decentralized human resources system, to ensure standardisation among the rights and obligations of all employees. State Chief of Staff, the most important institution of the state staff regime, has been seen by the AKP, which has been in power for ten years as the biggest obstacle to its own pleasure and the love of staffing. When the government came to his favor, he remembered the existence of the State Chief of Staff, and at other times, he chose to bypass it with decrees under the law. Every power is worn out, every absolute power worn out. In the end, the AKP has forgotten all its promises to its nation in the ten-year period, and has strayed from justice and justice, becoming the government of its allies, not its nation, but its allies, corrupt and corrupt. One of the words he has forgotten is that I will build a staff system based on justice and righteousness. The AKP announced it in 2002 with the Emergency Action Plan. Public employees who rely on this promise have given a significant support to the AKP. However, in the end of ten years, a recovery of the staff regime has been condemned, especially by the recent decree issued that ignores the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to the mercy of politics, to the two lips of the executive chiefs who have been stripped of the horn of the AKP. At times, the AKP government, which represents the continuity of the state in the face of political power, has degenerated its state office to break its right resistance to the threat of extreme politics, and has turned to unsecured personnel under various names. He wanted the officers to do his bidding, right and wrong, and to stand before him, and to show the way to the public official who did not bow down to him. In this regard, many of the government's main and permanent tasks have been carried out by contractors 4/B/B/L contracted employees, contracted personnel under special law, temps 4/C/C/E, temps and seasonal workers, subcontractors. This method has been viewed as a method of paying less wages for the general staff or paying more for its own supporters. Prior to the election, the staff was put on the payroll to be able to win elections with people's money. For the AKP, it does not matter whether the method is right, fair or legitimate. Every vehicle on the road to success is legitimate. From time to time, he exposed the worker to the employer, the officer, the petty officer, by exploiting them, to their voting projects. These methods are cruel methods for the survival of this state, and unfortunately, these methods, which other authorities have avoided because they could not kill the state, could have been AKP's toy. In order to get votes, the government has always been able to process head count. It is of no importance to the AKP that an employee who does the same work at the same workplace, but has different jobs, has different rights, is wronged, and for that to be hostile to his friends and state. What they do is not equal pay for equal work, but equal title, equal salary, easyness; job risk, performance, job testing, regularization. What you have done in the Constitution has no value because the AKP is a conjunctive party that aims not to remain an economist in political life, but once again to make political accents without the state's opinion and the state's care. The path of some other parties buried in the Turkish political cemetery and then forgotten. Making Erdogan President, taking the country to federalism, eliminating a thousand years of brotherhood, creating a lot of nations within our national borders, will complete their duties, end their political life and move aside. That is the way the AKP looks at government administration and the bureaucracy that governs the state. For Erdogan, everyone is welcome with garnish and everything is fair. When you tell your friends that he's on the road, there's no more than three semesters. When you say, "Excuse me, while I'm president, he's the one who does the math." Dear MPs, with the wrong practices and opportunistic approaches of the Prime Minister and the AKP, many victims have been created in the bureaucracy. No one in the public enjoys his work except for a few supporters and a happy little minority he has created. No more job satisfaction, no more trust in his government. Around 200,000 contract officers were assigned to the staff, while a number of chartered staff and 4/CEST members were not recruited, especially in the district's private administrations and municipalities. Again, the technical staff, especially working in the local administrations, is also waiting for their victims to be relieved. Under Code 663 and the acting midwife are positive that the 4/B contracting staff of nurses will improve the rights of the essence. However, it is inconsistency and injustice that all health workers are not assigned to the staff. In addition, the condition that this right is imposed on a year's work has led to new injustices. In accordance with Law 5620, 220 thousand workers who worked for at least six months were given a staff, and thousands of other temporary and seasonal workers were kept out of the scope. A group of people who are subjected to the treatment of stepchildren in the public are also 4/C. Again, hundreds of thousands of workers in public, without assurances, are violated under heavy working conditions and run by subcontractors, such as slaves, with no union, minimum wage. The sale of human labor and sweat to subcontractors is cruelty, cruelty. The AKP, which has been in power on its own for ten years, has not passed a staff law that envisions a system of justice and integrity for public employees with a fee worthy of human dignity. In fact, the fact that he didn't even talk about it means he didn't have any employees on the agenda. Without a person working hard on his agenda, there is naturally no government chief of staff. Now, it's up to the public employee to take the AKP (AKP) off the nation's agenda. Dear MPs, in the second part of my speech, I'd like to share my views on Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration Institute. Where did Turkey come from? You might say Middle East Amme Administration. The reason, dear friends, is that after World War II, the United Nations established a public administration institute in four countries around the world in 1952 to meet the need for a prominent public administrator worldwide. One of them, TODAIE, was planned to serve not only Turkey, but also Middle Eastern countries. However, the institution, which is intended to train only 3 million public personnel in our country, has been repeatedly neglected because it has not been exhausted in the centre of the region without its branches, and has been found apolitical by the authorities. To the Prime Minister, who is daydreaming about the Middle East today, turning the entire region into a mess, at least it's an opportunity for him to develop it on academic grounds. TODAIE is a perfect fit for training the rulers of Middle Eastern countries and creating modern bureaucracy in those countries. In terms of the prime minister, all the institution lacks is that it wants to take it through pluralistic democracy, not through the order system, but through the sultanic system. Well, you'll have to put up with him, too, Mr. Prime Minister, not everything works out the way you want it to. Despite the fact that TODAIE is a higher education degree, both the institution's future scientific autonomy is at stake because it is not considered part of the CEC Law, it should discuss the acceptance of its master's and doctorate programmes, and it is not allowed to improve the employee's rights. Another thing to say about TODAIE is that despite the fact that our Constitution's 128th Article states that raising senior executives and their fundamentals will be regulated exclusively by the law, this arrangement has not been made in the last 30 years. TODAIE is one of the classic public administrations, or is it an academic institution, and what advantage does it bring to their graduates, and all of this remains uncertain. Therefore, this law, ordered by our Constitution, must be brought to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and opened the way for TODAIE, I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0150par0246	Thank you. Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0151par0249	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, we're going through a process that is untenable to express, to think, to imagine, not to differ. We're going through a process where people are thought to be terrorists, called terrorists, come to mind when it comes to people who are opposed to power, who are thought to be terrorists, as they were done in Uludere. We are experiencing a process in which the elected mayors and lawmakers, elected by the public vote, have been imprisoned for many years for the membership of the terrorist organization, where those who exercise the right to hold meetings and demonstrations guaranteed by the Constitution have been treated as members of a terrorist organization. This year we're discussing the budget of judicial institutions and the Ministry of Justice, who can't distribute justice in such an environment, who have become the focus of injustice. The budget's cut to the Ministry of Justice is 1.6 per cent; the justice provided by Turkey is not even 1.6 per cent. The more money, the more justice or vice versa, the more justice, the more money. Dear MPs, tomorrow is December 13th. On December 13, 1980, Erdal Eren was tried in a rush by the courts of September 12, 1980, where he was tried and tried against the law and even killed by Erdal Eren. Should we not feed the date tomorrow? So, today, December 12th, when we're talking about the budget of this Ministry of Justice, I would like to talk about a more democratic judicial structure here in 2012, in Turkey, which is different from the idea of justice in 1980. Just as the coroner's reports were buried that day, the evidence was destroyed, and today, in today's courts, the expert reports were ignored, and the evidence was judged without discussion, without evidence being examined, with false evidence, and people were convicted. Dear lawmakers used to be called budgets -- I wasn't a congressman, but it used to be a thrill. In the budget days, everyone involved in politics, who was indifferent would be in charge of television, listening to presidents and politicians talk in the budget, but just as the holidays no longer taste like salt, these budgets have no taste. The Constitution has defined the budget rights given to MPs in ten days, are covered in 12 days, budget talks are held from a forbidden suffrage chamber. The original weight of the budget is being moved to zero, resetting. Dear lawmakers, the judiciary is closed in Turkey today. According to the weather forecast, there was supposed to be a settlement, a settlement of the problems, with the instalment package. There's nothing positive about the past few years, but there's a lot of negative change. The judicial packages, which have been earmarked under the name of reform in the judiciary, have done nothing but create the government's own judgment and make the judiciary a tool for politics. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, the Supreme Court of the Constitution, the new structure of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court and the Prosecutors, the new structure of the State, the appointments and the practices of these institutions are concrete evidence. In particular, the implementations of terrorist courts, which continue their activities with the special prosecutors and courts in the process of liquidation, are concrete evidence of the intention and actions of political power to engage in judicial activities through unlawfulness. On December 19, 2010, Mr. Prime Minister said in Bitlis: "They say we put the lights in, we don't have one intellectual that we lock up." He admits that they put him in, but he says that the people who were locked up weren't intellectuals. This is one of the concrete indicators of how to intervene in the judiciary. Again, regarding an incident related to the removal of the immunity of the BDP MPs: we have already told the judge what is necessary, and the judiciary is doing what is necessary, and we will do what is necessary in Parliament. Again, valuable lawmakers, a member of the Committee for Protection of Journalists in central New York, Marton, and an official on the Justice Ministry delegation told Utku Çakırözer. They did not share any information until today, but wrote a report with lawyers alone. Even the Turkish judiciary means that it is fairer than they are, and how fair the Turkish judiciary is is expressed by the Justice Department's person on that committee. Dear lawmakers, the law in Turkey, the judicial system is so complicated that wherever you hold it, you're left with it. It's the lack of justice and law enforcement. Law lacks justice, unfair law. It's an unfair, cruel law with a public conscience. According to the weather, it's the biggest problem in the economy to make a installment law. You've emptied the word "Reform" into your mouth, Mr. Secretary. When it's called reform, it's now come to mind that there's an instalment, but there's no telling what it's doing, and then there's these scattered, scattered packages. The dependency of the judiciary is the biggest problem. The problem that has been inoculated is the HSYK's meeting as Minister of Justice. The arrest that turned into a conviction, that's the problem. It's the lack of fair and fair trial, that's the problem. Late justice, question. Secret testimony, problem. Criminal organization wiretapping, problem. Suspension of the defense in the trial process, the absence of lawyers, that's the problem. The problem is that the right to defend and the judges and prosecutors are intertwined. It's driving lawyers out of their jurisdiction. It's a question of the Department of Justice's permission in cases filed against lawyers. Expenses in advance is a serious problem at the point of freedom of rights. Let him who has the money sue again, and let him not seek his rights without money. I leave it to you, Minister, how well his understanding fits with the state of social law. An individual application to the Constitutional Court, with money, is a problem. The increase in the number of law schools prevents us from having qualified lawyers. It blocks the portrait of judges as well as lawyers, which is a problem. Again, the amount of work in the courts, the problem is that the hearings are getting longer. Although it has been in the law for years, it's the fact that the law has not yet been established, but unfortunately, the Prime Minister has mentioned in his speech here that there have been court of honors, my dear friends. It's the lack of forensics, that's the problem. It's an expert's office, question. Ask the applications of the competent courts, which are replaced by special courts in liquidation -- Article 10 of the Anti-Terror Law. The expectation of amnesty in society, that's the problem. The detention center, all the issues in prison terms, it's a problem. There's a rule of law, it doesn't apply, or it's applied to the person and the situation. So contrary to the principle of equality, which is the most important element of the democratic legal state, is a serious problem in Turkey. Of all government officials, the problem with judicial employees is the biggest problem. Of the government officials, the most hardworking clerk, bailiff, concierge, editor-in-chief, clerk-in-chief, court workers, such as the last decision, were deprived of funds such as overtime, road money and pool funds. These people, who already work on very low salaries, are below the age of starvation. That's a serious problem. It's a very big problem, Mr. Secretary, that these people, who work late on Saturday night without a shift, have been cut off. On top of all that, underlying laws against law and universal law in the Ministry of Justice is another problem. It's been established in the Department of Justice that I'm not acting in accordance with the law. For example, regulations on monitoring communications through telecommunications, implementing measures by secret investigators and technical instruments are still being enforced by the Prosecutor's Office. Again, the search code, even though it's been cancelled by the State's Office, is in effect... the arrest code, once and for all. Although some of the provisions of the regulation for reconciliation have been cancelled by the State, it still is. In the Ministry of Justice, it's run by a lot of illegal regulations and regulations. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear lawmakers, it is clear that this budget is unfair, that there is no justice in the budget, and it is very clear. I hope, and I wish that in the coming days, Parliament will come to its senses and open the way for law enforcement, which brings justice to justice, which does not have a bloody conscience. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0152par0288	Thank you. Second speaker for the Republican People's Party Group, Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP. Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0153par0291	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. Honourable MPs are the 82nd province of Turkey, where there are more prisons than the population of the Church, Tunceli, Ardahan, and Bayburtt. The prison issue is one of the key and crucial issues of this era. The reason for the opening of new prisons in Turkey and the overlap of people in prison are the policies the AKP has recently followed. The intensity of prisons is not the number of prisoners, but the number of prisoners. In Europe, the proportion of prisoners is 10 per cent to 25 per cent, while Turkey is more than 60 per cent. According to international standards, a person who has not yet been convicted is considered innocent, which means six of every 10 in Turkey's prisons are innocent. This is not acceptable in terms of human rights. Dear friends, in prison logic, the absence of freedoms, the immunity of rights is essential. The prisons held by the AKP have become a monster that devours human life. The policies of F-type prisons leave prisoners to die silent. F-types, untraceable torture, silent death. In Turkey, there are deaths, fires, rapes and riots. Let us briefly remember what happened in prison recently: What happened in Posence Prison is a disgrace to everyone. Prisoners have been raped in public custody. The wardens of prisons have been rewarded in the process. When the Republican People's Party delegation seized the incident, the ministry first denied it, then realized that it could no longer cover these inhumanities, and closed the prison. What happens when people are sleeping in shifts, breathing is a big problem, and 20 to 30 people in 16 square meters are on top of each other, should not be forgotten. It's a shame for our country what happened at the Urban Prison where 13 people died in the rebellion. The simplest needs in Osmaniye Prison have led to hunger strikes. Turkey faced a ridiculous practice, such as the unusual beard. In Sincan F-type prisons, the phone is bound by the code of reporting. Not only the prisoner, but the family as well. For three years, prisoners have been unable to talk to their families on the phone in Sincan. This is the period when women, soldiers, and guards were stripped naked in front of İzmir Şakran Prison and forced to search for hollows. Unfortunately, naked search and cavity search on all type F continues at all speeds. Dear friends, applications in Tekirdağ F-type prisons do not allow Hitler's camps to be searched. Pleasure disciplinary measures are the usual practice of type F. A system taken from the German order for prisoners, F types -- as the prisoner in Tekirdağ is called -- are based on monitoring, minimizing, and humiliating. F-type prisons are the pinnacle of human intelligence and intelligence. Not even in September 12th, insults are happening during this period. Sarp Kuray, who lies in a Sincan F-type prison, says: "I did time in many prisons before and after September 12th -- in military prisons, in civilian prisons -- but when I see the type F practice today, military prisons are next to the type F." Mullis Batur with cancer wanted to die in his home, Magdalena Martha. One, in the hospital corner, one, died in prison. One of the longest prison inmates in Turkey, Cemil Erdem, has cancer in Tekirdağ, awaits death at Edirne Hospital. It should be known that the prisoner has all the rights of a free man. Being in prisons doesn't mean dying in prison. Ring cars are literally coffins. Many of the prisoners ask the Minister of Justice to at least enter the ring once and understand what it means to travel in the ring for ten minutes. Ring cars must be saved from being coffins on wheels. The ring tool separates the fine line between life and death. Again, he appeared in Tekirdağ Prison thanks to 200 prisoners who were taken to the hospital with sewage in the water. Cevdet Bayir's kidney was taken in the form of Kandira F and was asked to be operated on with his hands and feet handcuffed. He was taken to the hospital and searched naked. Dear friends, the problems with prisons are too much, the problem with prisoners buying clothes in prisons, the problem with prisoners eating food is $4. It's a problem to buy books, it's a problem to read. In every prison, some have five books, some have 10 books. The letters, the problem, the meeting with the families, the problem. It's possible to see women, inmates' wives, daughters' underwear, all the way to their bras, everywhere we go. It's the singing of the Turk, it's the color pen, it's the problem. Dear friends, the pen is not a problem, the white paper is not a problem, but the picture of the picture that was drawn by Cheā, the picture of the Sea Gezmiş, the problem of the problem, the problem with the cartoon. Dear friends, these are evidence of being a member of the organization. Che, the people everyone respects, the people they respect, the people they go to sea, the people they respect, the people they respect. Dear friends, this is the state of the prisons. When I put an end to my remarks, I celebrate all the civil society organizations that I'm a spokesman for, and I'm proud to be part of, all the civil rights violations there, all the civil society organizations, all the occupational organizations, all the lawmakers who are so oppressive, so violent, so much more fascist every day, one of our country's troubled areas like prison, and in the process of bringing one of our country's agendas to its attention. Usually the speakers are applauded on this bench, but today I applaud those who resist this bench against the AKP dictatorship. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0154par0314	Mr. Agha, we applaud you, thank you. Third speaker for the Republican People's Party Group, Ali İhsan Kokturk, Zonguldak MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0155par0317	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Justice Academy budget. First of all, I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, as you know, according to our Constitution, the Republic of Turkey is a state of law. Classically speaking, the principle of dissolution of forces, judicial and judicial independence, is the basic condition of the state of law. Judge independence, the basic condition of the legal state, requires judges not to receive orders or instructions from all persons or institutions, starting with their employment and training processes, but to make their decisions free without pressure. This is not enough, it is essential that judicial and judicial independence be free and independent, as well as the basic legal institutions that form the judiciary and exercise authority over judges. Precious MPs, however, today, the first of the two main institutions to form the judiciary, the Judges and Prosecutors' High Council, with all its nudity and pressure and rotations on judges and prosecutors in the investigations and trials related to political power in particular. On the other hand, the Justice Academy, which was established in 2003 as an independent committee to comply with the implementation of the European Union and to carry out its tasks for education in the field of justice, is no different from the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. Dear lawmakers, the Justice Academy, which is emphasised to be independent, that it is administrative, financial and scientificly autonomous in the institution's law, unfortunately, is today tied to the Ministry of Justice, as it is in general of the judiciary. Although the Constitution stipulates that the 140th article of the Article of the Constitution, the internal vocational education of judges and prosecutors, will be regulated according to the principles of judicial independence, judicial and prosecutor's guarantees, the structure of the Justice Academy today is far from implementing it. When we look at the structure of the Academy, the Minister of Justice, the undersecretary of Justice, the head of the Ministry of Justice, and the head of the department are natural members of the General Assembly of the Justice Academy. In addition to the four elected board members of the university professors, the Justice Academy has a crushing control over the Justice Department. At the Justice Academy, we said that the Ministry of Justice has an overwhelming control, and the board, which is under overwhelming control of the Ministry of Justice, also elects members of the Board of Directors and Control of the Justice Academy. As that is not enough, the appointment of the vice president and vice presidents of the Justice Academy has been carried out by the Council of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as these are not enough, the 4th article of the law has been shown the Ministry of Justice as an institution concerned with the Academy of Justice. In the latest amendment to the Constitution, the Minister of Justice has the authority to appoint judges and prosecutors to work temporarily and permanently for the central, connected and relevant institutions of the Ministry of Justice. Here, valued lawmakers, when we put it all on top of each other, as a result, there is the absolute weight of political power in the formation and functioning of the Turkish Academy of Justice, and this weight is never in line with the principles of judicial independence, justice and prosecutorial guarantees, which are expressed in our Constitution. Dear lawmakers are not independent of the academy, fiscally and scientifically, which is not administratively independent. In the Justice Academy's budget, most of its revenues are funded by the Ministry of Justice. Due to this situation, the Justice Academy, which is both administrative and financially dependent on the Ministry of Justice, is unable to carry out its duty to train judges and prosecutors objectively and unbiasedly. When we look at the practices in the judiciary, which should be trained by the Unindependent Academy of Justice, the honorable lawmakers, as Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk put it, a terrible painting appears. In many trials, particularly Ergenekon, Cage, Sledgehammer, Oda TV cases, the right to defend is severely restricted in respect of police records, confidential witness statements that create scandals, and falsified expert reports that contradict each other. With the open provisions of our Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights, the CMC, and the Turkish Court of Human Rights of Europe ignored hundreds of decisions, thousands of our civil-military citizens, especially our MPs, are being defamed in prison by so-called trials in private authorities courts, without justification, with long-term and unfair arrests. Again, in these trials, the principle of innocence, such as the interpretation of suspicion in favor of the defendant, the claimer's burden of evidence, and the principle of innocence, is overlooked in a way that even students in the first class of law schools would not do so. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, may we say that while all of this is happening in front of our very eyes, the Justice Academy has carried out its duty to educate judges and prosecutors, in accordance with basic legal norms, unbiased and independent? Dear MPs, despite the existence of the principle of dissolution of forces in the part of our Constitution, which has been expressed in the beginning of our Constitution, not only in the capacity of Prime Minister, but in accordance with the fact that there is a principle of separation of forces. Can we still talk about the existence and survival of the legal state expressed in our Constitution, which can make the sentence publicly, under the pressure of the Minister of Justice and in general, in accordance with the pressure of the judiciary? Dear lawmakers, again, we don't trust the reports of all national and international institutions, 67 per cent of the polls. Can we say that there is still justice in this country today, and there is law? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear lawmakers, can we ignore all of this and ignore it and say good luck and good luck to the budget of the Academy of Justice, which will contribute not to the independent judiciary, but to the establishment of a biased judiciary? With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0156par0336	Thank you. Ercan Cengiz, the fourth speaker on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, is İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0157par0338	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, one of the most important agendas of the 2010 referendum was the changing structure of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. It was said that the antidemocratic, outdated HSYK structure would be transformed into a modern, democratic and participatory structure. When we look at it today, we see a structure emerging under the control of a so-called elected member of the United States Justice Department, who is in no way independent. The problem, it seems, was not the structure, the functioning, the independence and neutrality of the HSYK, but the lack of control of the AKP. Dear friends, in societies where negativity can be reduced to a minimum, the concepts of the rule of law and the rule of law have come forward. The purpose of law is truth and justice. In a law state, it's the law that determines everything. It is possible, not according to the form of the law, that the rule of law could mean anything to a legal state.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0158par0341	Speak up so this Sadullah can hear. Sadullah can't hear, he's deaf.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0157par0342	In short, the state of law, the whole body of the state, such as individuals, obeys the rules of the law and acts of the state, and considers itself bound by these rules. The most important factor in the implementation of the legal state is the independence of the judiciary. The independence of the judiciary, in fact, is the basis of a legal state. Of course, independence of the judiciary is not a privilege given to the members of the judiciary. This rule is recognized as a guarantee of the rights of right and just trial of individuals, and this guarantee can only be provided by well-trained, well-informed, equipped, material and spiritually satisfied judges and prosecutors. Independent justice is also an essential condition of democracy, which is the way of the era. Dear friends, the AKP, which has established full control over the legislative and executive bodies, has seen that it can only achieve the regime change it aims to achieve through the judiciary, and has implemented a strategic plan from 2002, when it moved from here to power. In order to achieve the goal, all against themselves, including media-release agencies, have been reorganised through the staffing of all judicial services to intimidate and intimidate anyone who raises their voice, the investigations and lawsuits, and the decisions made by judicial institutions at every stage are intended. Dear friends, the AKP's power, which captures a good conjunctive in the domestic and outside world, began from a good point of view, with basic laws, changes for EU integration, with a sneakiness that no one has noticed, first changing the Turkish Penal Code and the Penal Code altogether. And that's when the real collapse of the judiciary begins. In particular, the penal code, as in the modern world, has been chosen to expand into a long period of time, instead of changing parts into parts, the way to be changed in bulk, and the knowledge is nullified in the criminal trial, as it was in a hurry to do so. Thus, a hundred years of criminal law culture, a major gain in our country, was eliminated. It's true what I say about everyone in the judiciary. The air is born, a state of chaos has been created. After this environment has already been established, the known cases and investigations have already been launched. Dear friends, for the first time in our country, the Constitution of 1961 has been assured by the judge, but the independence of the judiciary has not been fully fulfilled. In the 1982 Constitution, judges and prosecutors were considered together, while prosecutors were considered as judges, while judges were controlled by prosecutors' channels. Today's system is the system of civilized judges, and this system has nothing to do with the concept of judicial independence, and this government has transformed the judicial bodies created with this logic into a completely constitutional and legal structure of its own. In which case, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, has been dominated by the Supreme Court, the Court, and by the HSYK establishment, the courts have been fully under control. How can judgment in such a building be a source of security? A member of the judiciary who represents a political opinion or defines himself that way cannot be assured of anyone, including himself. Dear friends, the issue of judicial independence is primarily a cultural business. If governments, peoples, institutions, individuals embrace the culture of independent judges and independent judges, they have an independent sense of judgment in those societies. There is no way that separate societies, individuals, and even judges can carry out independent judgment. Today we argue what should be the HSYK structure, one way or another, in developed countries, in other countries. It must not be forgotten that development means having independent judicial culture and consciousness. In those countries, society, individuals, state, everyone embraces independent judicial culture, at least that's the dominant view. Thus, no matter what system there is in these countries, that system works closely to the right, ideal, and there are no problems in judgment or judgment. There are not many problems in those countries, even if the government or the justice ministry form the institution that makes the decision on judges. Dear friends, is this the case in Turkey? We're really far away from everything. Think about it: Judges choose between themselves. A list of judges and prosecutors all over the country who have been most complained over the years, who have been criticised for their lack of independence, who have always been spoken of in the HSYK, has won a list of unfired elections with the majority of judges and prosecutors in the country. In this case, it can be said that either the judiciary does not believe in judicial independence, or the majority of them are in favor of a certain political opinion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Today, unfortunately, the HSYK -- as it aims -- is in full control of the government. Friends, the greatest desire of society is equal dissolution of justice, and the biggest concern of societies is injustice. It must not be forgotten that life is worthless where there is no justice. I wish you all the days of justice that lead the way to happiness and happiness.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0159par0353	Thank you. Süleyman Çelebi is the fifth speaker on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0160par0356	Mr. President, you're adding it to the deadline, aren't you? Mr. President, you've added the unusable time, haven't you, sir?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0161par0357	We had a minute.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0159par0358	I'll put it in a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0161par0360	Mr. President, my dear friends, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group and on behalf of myself, I salute you with respect and love. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We know that Mustafa Kemal Ataturk would rather feed on life than adopt any doctrineal approach to him. We also feed on life, tradesmen, pensioners, labourers, students, unemployment, the right ideas, but the government's food is the understanding of neoliberal doctrine and authoritarian democracy, and its food is not the street, but the palaces, palaces, palaces, the spoils of power, and supporters who sustain power. It's useless to hold a hammer after you hit the nail sideways. A reckoning on September 12th wouldn't be like hitting a nail sideways. All laws adopted are side-by-side violations of the Constitution of September 12th. We have seen these laws in collective business relations, in the Law of Public Servants Unions, in the Law on Occupational Health and Safety, in the law of pensioners and in many other laws. The destruction of the public economy through privatisation of economic and social rights and privatisations, the closure of the most important production centre, the removal of agricultural support shares, the failure of the farmer, the destruction of the country's underground and above-ground resources, is a summary of several topics of the economy of September 12th. That's why our country has become dependent, not productive, consuming, not dominant. Today, there is nothing different than the above - mentioned landscapes. Dear friends, the budget is political. That's exactly why, if the budgets are for the public, they're not always meant to give more. In the budget, the goal is not to give or give less. The goal is to give to the people what you have taken from the people, as did the Lord Joseph. Tolstoy said that even though they are wicked, they want to set things right. Is it possible for us to look at it today and explain so much evil with good intentions? Article 60 of the Constitution states: "Everyone has the right to social security. Where is he? It's the right thing to do! While leaving the social state to the state of social welfare, the poorened areas are left at the mercy of power and advocacy groups. The 1980 coup was a heavy blow to the union organization. The trade unionisation rate in Turkey since the 1990s, both in numbers and proportionally since the 1990s, due to legal legislation, new liberal policies that gained speed in the 1990s, employers and governments' ununification policies. When the AKP came to power in 2002, the number of workers was more than 1 million under the collective agreement, while its unionisation rate was 9.5 per cent, while in 2011 it was reduced to 5 per cent with 690,000 people. The 2013 budget is almost a copy of other budgets; it is a budget of war and poverty. Again came the incentive policies of workers, workers, people, more taxes, more increase. Although the minimum wage corresponds to seven and a half hours a day, our country's workers are employed for eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen hours a day. The minimum wage for workers who work under all these conditions is not even the equivalent of the hours they work. Isn't it the government who immediately interferes with those who seek their rights on the street that condones theft of labor? The pensioners will not get their share of the national income, you say. He's trying to get by on his pension, and this time he's getting a bonus from the pensioner who's getting his job back. What people will do, how they will live, the answer is still not in power. Many people who have completed their insurance time and bonus days can't retire because of their age. When will these people's services be paid and when will they receive their rights? If you're talking about power, do you ever think about using it to protect the rights of labor? Can those with scales of justice hand out justice, dear friends? Hunger limit is $1.040. Retired pensioners get paid under the hunger line. The minimum wagers live below the hunger line. I'm asking, who is this growth reflected in? Who do you give out to from the workers, pensioners? Is that the price of growing economy? We're growing up, yes, but we're growing up paying these prices. In business accidents, we are third in the world, first in Europe. In the injustice of income, we come after Chile and Mexico. I mean, we're an unfairly sanctioned country. The way is clear: take from the poor, make the poor poor poorer. Give it to the rich, make the rich richer. AKP's military policy, war in war, leads to spending a significant part of the budget. What would happen if military spending was less than 5%? The public health insurance premium for over 10 million uninsured citizens can be paid by the state. The poor house, which is close to 1 million euros, can also be paid 295 Turkish liras per month. With the reduction of 20 per cent of military spending, around 12 million uninsured citizens' public health insurance premiums can be covered by the state and more than a million poor homes can be provided with regular income support for $465 per month. Let this country's children have bread, not bullets, not training, not fighter planes, kites, missile shields, freedom, not war, peace. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In the referendum, the AKP did the opposite of what it promised in the elections. A Unions Act, which lacks the right to strike, without the dam being removed, without the freedoms. The Labour Health and Occupational Safety Act was another law adopted by the AKP, with many of our proposals rejected. The law has been passed, the deaths of workers continue to happen every day. We see that AKP's laws don't cure wounds. 82 workers were killed and 293 injured in business accidents only in November. Who's gonna pay for the burners? Who will account for the 11 workers who were burned to death in the winter construction of the mall while you watch TV in your warm home? This is the bench of public accountability. Go ahead and pay for it. "I'm mortified when there's a work accident." Minister of Labour and Social Security Faruk Çelik said these words only April. Over 500 workers lost their lives over the course of time. Of course we don't want you to go underground, Mr. Secretary, be above ground, but don't stand by as long as you don't watch, don't watch the killings, stop the killings. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] All rights earned by employees through decades of struggle are being tried to be taken back by the AKP. The AKP, which says it will remove obstacles in the face of the strike, lifts obstacles in the face of strike bans, which prevents capital attacks on labourers without violence. Just yesterday, the mentality, which banned the strike in the air force, recently imposed a strike ban on the stock market and capital market, due to a change in the Capital Market Law. It is said that we are condemned to subcontractors.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0162par0386	Mr. President, I think the speaker's got a deadline!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0161par0387	About 354,000 public workers in the general administration budget cost about 10 billion Turkish liras annually. The amount paid for service in 2012 is 12 billion Turkish liras in six months. Half of this is paid for by individuals or firms, so it's the same amount of resources that are earmarked for subcontractors.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0162par0388	Mr. President, he's taking down the other speaker now.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0163par0389	Mr. Çelebi speaks instead of being silent in the past.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0164par0390	Mr. President, it'll take five minutes. He had the right to remain silent, he'll take five minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0165par0391	In the coming process -- to our current future -- we know that State Officers Act 657 will come to the agenda -- to legalise sub-employees, sub-contractor practices, and to eliminate public workers' employment guarantees and to establish a performance-based system, and we're already warning you to give up anti-employment policies.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0163par0392	Mr. Çelebi, please. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0165par0394	I'm ending it, Mr. President. Dear friends, I'd like to finish my speech with Victor Hugo's words: "We struggle to eliminate poverty while you struggle to help the poor you have created." I send greetings and love to all who fight for equality, freedom, justice, democracy, peace in Turkey. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0166par0399	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the last speaker is Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is nine minutes. I'll add a minute that Mr. Genghis didn't use. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0167par0405	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the budgets of the esteemed MPs, the Institute for Occupational Qualification, the Institute for Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration, and the budgets for the President of State Staff. I salute you all. Dear friends, not in the Plan and Budget Commission, nor here is the institution of occupational qualifications, which no speaker has mentioned many names, in fact, in the afternoon for its sake, fireworks, in broad daylight, are an important institution that we throw, should be cared for. It is important for both the Republic of Turkey and for the European Union because the institution is using its resources, using largely European Union funds. On the one hand, the European Union is trying to create the intermediary workforce for technical education that our country needs, and on the other hand, the European Union, in a way, is not giving money or loans for nothing, because it has an elderly population, it's contributing to us to create its potential workforce, and it's using its funds to do its institutional work. As you know, in 2006, the institution was founded under the name of Law 5544, which is in accordance with the European Union's acquisitor, and should be really cared for. Dear friends, his budget is so modest, he's trying to raise intermediaries in the field of vocational technical education with a budget like $9 million. Dear friends, the Institute of Turkish and Middle East Amme Administration, which we know as our second important institution, was founded in 1952, institutionalized and founded in 1953, and was founded in Egypt, Pacific, and Latin America, but did not survive. In our country, executives who came there cared about the institution and carried it up to this day because of their belief that Turkey and Middle Eastern countries were both administrators and a contributor to the growing workforce. Of course, in the first place, it is unacceptable for the institution to be linked to the Ministry of Labor with a decree. Like TODAIE, an institution in the world -- even if there is -- should be connected by its organisation, the ministry; it should work directly, not by such a Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of Interior, but directly, by a higher authority such as the Prime Minister or the presidency. The institution, as you know, serves in a narrow place in the Supreme Hill. Despite the fact that he has raised high-value senior executives, especially since 2002, the AKP has taken solidarity as a measure, not as a measure of public administration, but as a measure, or as a member of a cult, the congregation is ignoring the staff that the institution has raised, and causing the waste of resources. Dear friends, I said it's a good thing. Indeed, our State Staff President is also a public institution, a Department of Labor and Social Security. It is an institution that determines what our country's staff regime should be, what the public staff regime should be, the agency's duties and powers, the personnel regime that officers will be subject to, in accordance with the country's requirements. But we're looking, especially every power, whoever came, was talking about changing the staff regime in our country. At times, the AKP wanted to take steps to radically change the staff regime in 2004, 2006, but it didn't. When did he do that? Slowly, slowly, acclimating, first in Turkey to radical change in the public and especially in national education, health, health, after changing hill managers in all public institutions and institutions, in accordance with Act 611, by issuing the decree, piece by piece, phase by step, in the staff regime. Dear friends, in our staff regime, public service is essential to public service by the hands of public officials. A public servant is a civil servant. In the Law of State Officers No. 657, 4/A officers, 4/B contractors, 4/C temporary staff and 4/D workers work in accordance with Law 4857, so this is not part of State Officers Act 657. Especially after 2002, the AKP, with AKP in power, opened up a part of its war against its employees because the AKP had established a government to live its own mind and to conquer the institutions of its own state, and it had also started to base on its contractualism, which was an exceptional form of work. On the other hand, when there's not enough or qualified employees in public, there's not enough pay and there's a contract or a schedule that needs to work for a period of time -- the higher salary, aside from the original officer -- he doesn't have a year's leave in the contract, there's no severance, there's no severance, there's no women's right to give birth. The way this works, the best form of labor exploitation. The AKP came in handy and jumped there. Today, the number of contracted personnel is almost over 300,000. Dear friends, of course, in addition to this chartered application, 4/C has come to the attention of applications from the other side. When the AKP was in power, Turkey had a number of 4/C" staff in its hands, with 100. So the figure -- as far as I can remember -- was 164 people in November 3, 2002, because the non-privatisation agreement was made with the government of the trilateral coalition that day, and 164 people were left out. Although the number today appears to be 18,652 at times, but a separate application is that the AKP sets up an institutional law for each agency, for each institution, and brings a separate staff regime to each organization's law. For example, the model thought of for PTT Inc is the law of illegal operating where employees are not subject to 657, they are not subject to 4857, they are subject to this law. Now, the AKP submitted a new arrangement to parliament yesterday as a government bill to be presented to the Assembly General Assembly. Dear friends, it says there that the cost of being an element of the cost is called the service price paid by the administration to be paid to the contractor in exchange for services that must be carried out by health services and assistant health care personnel in Article 367 of State Officers' Law under Article 36. So the Ministry of Health is going to build a construction model and supply the staff that works there from the market. This looks like a service method, but it's another version of subcontractor. Dear friends, the subcontractor system is what Mr. Minister says in Turkey. Neither wages nor working conditions are required, and today, Mr. Secretary is drafting a bill to legalise this subcontractor application and make it official. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you on behalf of the contractors in particular, to stop drafting that bill. I think you've upset enough workers, employees, unemployed people, pensioners in your time, so you don't have to worry anymore. Dear friends, of course, especially working life has turned into total chaos in Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The fees have been suppressed, along with the suppression of the wages, profits from the labour sector, rants and pressured wages have been transferred to employers, local foreign companies and supporters by AKP. Therefore, there is no way that we can say yes to such a budget. I say it's impossible for us to say "good" to the budget, and I pay all of you respect.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit03spe0168par0421	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0168par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2011 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Now, speaking for the AK PARTY Group, the member of the Bolu MP at Fehmi Cubçü.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0169par0006	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the financial budget for the 2013 Ministry of Justice. I hereby salute your delegation and our beloved nation. Dear lawmakers, in our culture justice is the foundation of property. So the foundation of justice, state and community order is the essence of the state of law. The lawmaker's basic duty is to establish the law that upholds justice. The Constitutional Court, in its definition of the state of law, defines the state of law as an element of the state of law. In this spirit, our government struggles with the strength from its nation, with love, with love, with love, with conversation, with this effort and with its contribution. If I have to say it under a few topics, serious steps have been taken regarding constitutional reform, judicial independence, democratisation and human rights, revampment of fundamental laws, rapid trial, new institutions, quantitative and qualified human resources, justice palaces and IT technologies. Dear lawmakers, our citizens now have the opportunity to receive this service in public and appropriate courts with the UYAP infrastructure equipped with the latest products of IT technology, which gives lawyers to those without lawyers, who can follow their cases from the Internet. With a controlled liberalisation exercise, the possibility to serve out the sentence of many prisoners who remain in prisons for simple crimes has been closed down, instead, modern and reliable criminal execution institutions have been built, and the number of staff has been increased by 63 per cent. Our fundamental laws in accordance with the ideal of changing and growing Great Turkey have been upgraded to catch the age. Turkey's Justice Academy has been tasked with judicial courts in the region, the Public Control Agency, legal counsels to serve in diplomatic missions in foreign countries to prevent high-judgment collapses. The Forensic Medical Association has been widely expanded. Three separate judicial packages have been adopted in our Parliament to speed up judicial proceedings and work on the fourth judicial package. With the number of judges and prosecutors increased by 30 per cent, the number of judges per 100,000 has increased from 7 to 12, and the number of assistant staff serving in the courts has increased from 20,000 to 46k. The 157 new courthouses were built with modernity, architecture, and 157 new courts, including the largest court of justice of Europe, which we built in Istanbul. Hopefully, in my constituency, Bolu would start building our new courthouse in 2013, in line with the authenticity of the city, in accordance with its nature. In describing the law, the esteemed lawmakers sometimes compared it to the spider web where the big flies go through and sometimes the little flies get stuck. This perception and understanding have changed. The law of the superior has been passed. Law 2/2 of civil law, the rules of honesty and good faith, which we all know as lawyers, are used in the old terms of the rights of all people, and they say that their debt is due in accordance with the rules of self-esteem, and the law does not protect the abuse of one's rights, which is not merely illegal. This fundamental principle is that our government, with the power taken from its people, did not abuse the power of its nation, but continued its steep and vertebrate march in this field, as in every field, but never accepted above the law, and will always do its part, saying, "My country, my people, all my brothers." And I hereby bless this budget, the unity of this nation, the hard work and the contribution of the brotherhood, and the hope of my country and my country, and I salute you all with my most heart.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0170par0021	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the second speaker is İlknur İnceöz, Aksaray MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0171par0024	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the Justice Department budget. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, from the day we came to power, many serious steps have been taken from education to health, from justice to safety in many areas. Several legal provisions, considered at the reform level, have been implemented. In particular, there have been many innovations in the field of judgment that are truly a turning point. From 2002, in order to improve the conditions of our courts, we carried what had not been done until that day to court palaces in the name of many of our isolated courthouses in our provinces and counties. We've built 157 new palaces of justice with a modern look, with significant budgets set aside for the Ministry of Justice. We have a large number of courthouses in the ongoing project phase. Our palaces of justice weren't just designed as buildings, they were equipped with computers and technological equipment. In 2002, the number of desktop computers, which were 4,200, was over 40,000, and the number of laptops, 55, was over 16 thousand. Although the number of judges and prosecutors in our country has not yet been requested, we have increased the number of judges and prosecutors by 30 per cent. In ten years, the number of staff in the courts has been increased by 130 per cent and thus the number of staff has been largely resolved. The UYAP, a major success in reducing the workload in the judiciary, is an accepted, modeled system in the world. The U.N. Public Service Award was the 1st in the IYAP SMS Information System, and the IYAP Information System was the second. We are witnessing new developments every day regarding the UYAP ▪, which must be constantly invested so that it can remain current. Thanks to the IYAP, we are now able to learn about case files through the Internet without going to court. Again, our justice system, despite time, is not trying to survive, but is moving along with time. Deputies are the foundation of justice property. Three separate judicial packages were adopted in parliament to ensure that judicial services work more effectively, faster, by the principle of justice, not by delaying justice. The work of the fourth judicial package is carried out by the Ministry of Justice. The Supreme Court and Prosecutor's Office have increased the number of members to reduce the burden of the judiciary with legal judicial packages, and the court's capacities have been strengthened. Some crimes have been turned to misdemeanor and taken out of the jurisdiction of the courts. The burden of the courts has been significantly reduced, providing opportunities for some non-compete judicial work to be done by notaries. The number of files collected in the Supreme Court and the Court for years has been melted by a third, along with significant regulations. The provision of alternative solutions with the Anti-Alteracy Act, adopted on 7/6/2012, is also a key step towards reducing the burden of the judiciary. Many more legal regulations aim to lighten the burden of the judiciary's work, to ensure rapid, effective judicial activity. Mr. President, we have implemented reform-level reform-level referendum, which is a turning point for the judiciary, from positive discrimination in the Constitutional Court to child rights in the Constitutional Court, from individual application to the establishment of the Public Control Agency. In particular, it has gained a more democratic and independent, independent view of the changes in structures of the HSYK and the Constitutional Court. We know that if the judiciary is not independent, all other judicial regulations, legal regulations, will be condemned to remain at the same time. For this reason, a very important step has been taken with the September 12th referendum to ensure the rule of law of the superior. For this purpose, our goal is to create a system of justice that is based solely on the laws and on the principles of the Constitution, which are based on the universal principles of the law, fully independent, neutral, qualified, quality, quality, efficiency, and timely. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, thank God our Justice Department budget has increased every year during our rule. I want to thank all those who have done their best to thank our country, our country, our nation, in the year 2013 budget, who is trying to implement realist policies so that the justice system can function in a way that suits its name, and I salute all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0172par0035	Thank you. The third speaker is Hüseyin Cemal Akin, Malatya MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0173par0038	What is it with these prisons? On the one hand, Veli Bey, on the other, Hüseyin Cemal Akin, they've become masters of prisons!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0174par0039	We're the masters of prisons, sir. It can't be them.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0175par0040	The true master of prisons is Agababa.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0176par0041	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Attorney General's Department of Justice and the Department of Corrections and the Institution of Laboratory of Prisons. I salute the High Council. The ability of society to live in peace and peace is possible through a system of justice that works in its time, which ensures the confidence of society in the judiciary. The basic requirement for social, cultural and economic development is justice. A quick, efficient and healthy trial process strengthens ties between the state and society. Dear lawmakers, there have been important studies and legal changes during the EC PARTY administrations to ensure that the judiciary works more efficiently and effectively as a requirement of commitment to the state of law, to protect the individual's rights and freedoms. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors has been restored to a democratic, transparent and broad-based structure, whose tasks have been increased, their work is more neutral, independent, and effective. The judges and prosecutors had never been fully independent and neutral in the past. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, along with a public vote on September 12th, has been restored to a democratic, transparent, broad-based structure. In this way, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors has represented judges and prosecutors in their first-degree courts and lawyers. In itself, the closed system has been altered, and the representation and spite of the members of the judiciary has been increased. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are experiencing a process of development and transformation in Turkey. In this process, our criminal and justice system has also been radically altered, and legal regulations have been carried out. In addition to the work of regulations, the number and quality of staff has been increased, especially during the time of our EC PARTI, not content with improving the physical conditions of our execution institutions. Besides, the system has been modernized by doing healing for prisoners and prisoners. There is no doubt that criminal execution institutions are, by nature, an institution that restricts human freedom. However, it is possible to see those who remain here in society as productive individuals who do not commit crimes again, under the conditions presented to them and in the honor of human beings. Dear MPs, there are now 128,232 prisoners and prisoners in our 373 penal execution institutions. In addition to the execution and rehabilitation of prisoners and prisoners, these institutions aim to be useful to society, with all kinds of education, improvement, sporty and workplace activities. There are 40.103 personnel in our criminal execution institutions. These are death guard officers, heads of staff, teachers, social workers, psychologists, veterinarians, engineers and managers. We also have 1,656 personnel at supervised liberalisation and relief centers. I would also like to thank the staff of the Criminal Execution Institutions, who have spent twenty-five years with these staff, as bar president, who have dealt with these problems, who know the problems, who have been altruisticly involved, and also, as it is known, have been elected from the respected members of the community from the early ages. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the most important organs of the Department of Corrections is the Department of Businesses of Prisons. Businesses are founded on the purpose of protecting and developing the profession and arts of prisoners or learning a profession and art. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Prisoners and prisoners are given vocational training in their workplaces, paid for their work, and are admitted into society as a post-evac occupation. On this occasion, I wish the budget to be a blessing, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0177par0054	Thank you. The fourth speaker is Mustafa Kemal Sherbetcioğlu, Bursa MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0178par0057	Mr. President, I have made a promise today to inform you of the efforts and dedication of the Turkish Academy of Justice, which have been modelled in the field of justice and law today, in which we have discussed the budget of 2013 of the judiciary. On this occasion, I salute you all. Turkey's Justice Academy is a public institution founded by our government in 2003 with a corporate personality, a special budget with scientific, administrative and financial autonomy. The Justice Academy has a total area of 1,35,000 square metres in Ankara, with 25,423 square metres closed, with an open area of 109,587 square meters. I'd like to express with pride that it comes forward as a judicial academy with the largest settlement in Europe. This is an important indication of how much we value education in the field of justice. The compound is located near the educational, administrative, social, sports facility, which has a bed capacity of 340 people. The educational centre is capable of 1,250 students. As of today, 771 judicial trials are taking place for the candidate judge and prosecutor. Mr. President, disseminating justice is one of the basic functions of the state and the basis of legitimacy. In the framework of modern public administration, the delivery of services in this area is significantly proportional to the professional competence of all judicial professionals, especially judges and prosecutors. For this purpose, the Justice Academy plans and organises pre-professional and vocational training of judges and prosecutors, following current legal developments in our country and internationally, and provides this training with professors who usually come from within the practice. In this context, vocational training was performed during the 2011-2012 training period for 2,452 judges and prosecutors, pre-professional, 4,755 judges and prosecutors, along with the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. The Turkish Law on Debts, Law on Laws, Promotions of the Turkish Trade Law, and solutions to the problems in practice, which have become increasingly effective in vocational education activities. I'd like to point out right away that all methods of teaching at the academy are effective and efficient, in accordance with the needs of the age. In this context, Strasbourg will be able to teach our candidates directly through the teleconference system of experts and judges in the European Court of Human Rights in 2013. Studies for this are largely completed. In addition, projects are being developed, and modules are being prepared, working with local and foreign experts to develop the education curriculum. In addition to training at the Justice Academy, studies are being made to improve the social and cultural values of our candidates. In this scope, media, cinema, music, literature, novel and history, such as Taha Akyol, Cüneyt Özdemir, Flame Alatlı, Sinan Çetin and Coral Dede, are holding interviews and conferences with Turkey's elite intellectuals in the area of cinema, theatre, music, literature, and history. In the same way, photography, painting, music, ebru, tennis and folk dance courses are organised as part of art, hobbies and sports activities. Other than judges and prosecutors, the Turkish Justice Academy also provides training for lawyers, notary, court staff and other institutions' legal advisers, inspectors and auditors. In 2012, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy inspectors and auditors of the National Ministry of Defence inspectors and legal advisors from their institutions, with the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, were given training. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have discussed various operational issues concerning the functioning of the legal and judicial system with national and international symposiums and workshops organised by the Justice Academy within the framework of scientific studies and activities. In this context, four major international programmes were conducted in 2012. The Justice Academy serves with its current library of more than 20,000 sources as part of its efforts to establish Turkey's largest and most effective library in the field of law and justice. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, Turkey's Justice Academy, not only serves our country, but its extraordinary capacity to benefit from other countries, keep its international relations strong in order to help promote our country internationally. This includes cooperation with 41 countries and 12 international organisations. In our country, which is a proud and respected member of the international community, the Turkish Academy of Justice for the development of liberal democracy, the strengthening of fundamental rights and freedoms, the domination of the universal values of law... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to fulfill his duties and responsibilities. With these thoughts, I wish you all the blessings of the 2013 budget of the Turkish Academy of Justice.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0179par0071	Thank you. The 5th speaker is Adam Yeşildal, Hatay MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0180par0074	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget for the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors of the 2013 Financial Budget Bill. I salute your committee. Dear lawmakers have also made significant and radical changes to the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, as has the September 12, 2010 referendum in many areas. In preparation for the amendments to this referendum, during the commission phases, during negotiations at the General Assembly, and ultimately at the referendum campaign, everyone said more than anyone would say. And finally, on September 12th, our nation made the final statement by saying yes to the substantial majority of constitutional amendments. However, we view it as disrespectful to the people's will, to go to the pollemic changes that our nation has approved by going to the pollemic chest and to throw mud at the government. The government has been accused of taking over the judiciary over these changes that have been implemented through the referendum, and has been charged with accusations as the judiciary has been surrounded. Now, with a few examples, I'm going to try to compare the pre-referenda situation with the structure of this board to the post-referendum situation. The chairman of the board was the Minister of Justice, the Undersecretary of Justice was of course a member of the board, the meeting that the undersecretary did not attend could not be held. Although the new structure does not attend the undersecretary meetings, meetings can be held and decisions can be made. All five members of the board, except for the minister and the undersecretary, were only sent by the Supreme Court and the Court General Assemblys, creating a more democratic and broad-based structure in the new structure. Of the first level of judicial and administrative judges and prosecutors, ten members, members of the Supreme Court and Prosecutors' General Assemblys, five of them, one member of the Turkish Academy of Justice and one member of the President's law professors and lawyers, a total of 22 members were formed. I'd like to talk to you about this: a Republican People's Party MP who spoke before our group used a sentence that said, "I'm really sorry, HSYK, who was chosen but appointed." In front of everyone, the judges and prosecutors of the first-degree judiciary have made an objective choice by going to the polls, including ten, seven, three of them forensic judges and three prosecutors... do you have any objection to the way of this election? I think such a sentence is a disrespect to the will of 11-12 thousand judges in the country. I have to say this because in a transparent way, these friends arrived with an election between the judges and the prosecutors. Gene, in the same way, the Supreme Court and the General Assembly of the Court and the Council of State... in the previous system, you know, the three-way candidates for each membership were presented to the presidency. According to the current system, members of the Supreme Court and the Council of Prosecutors are choosing them directly, according to the newly created system. Now, if you hold this and call it the so-called "chosen but elected, appointed HSYK." It would be disrespectful to the will of the individual judges there. I'd like to express that I'm condemning this. Yeah, well, there's a lot to be said for that. That's it, of course, in the history of the Republic of Turkey, it's not possible for us to fit the significant changes made in a September 12th referendum on a system of problems in five minutes. Here, there were no judicial decisions against board decisions, but in the new system, especially in business exports, these board decisions are now subject to judicial supervision. In addition, an effective objector system has been brought in. There was no objection to the decisions made by the board before. Right now, there is an opportunity to appeal to the general council against the decisions made by the agencies. I'm running out of time, and actually, as I just said, there's a lot of things that need to be explained, something that needs to be expressed. Fortunately, the AK PARTY Group is too much, and our group has given us five minutes. That's all I can say in five minutes. I salute the entire General Assembly. I wish our budget would be a blessing.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0181par0084	The sixth speaker, Hasan Fehmi Kinay, Kütahya Millevekili.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0182par0085	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the budget of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security budget in the draft of the 2013 Central Management Budget Act. I hereby salute your high council. Budget talks are one of the areas of study where accounting of past years and assessments of the future are co-starred, with key debates for parliamentary democracy. Our Ministry of Labour and Social Security budget, and a large number of lawmakers in Parliament have participated in the debate by making assessments. I find the assessments, negotiations, of course, valuable, and I thank the opposition lawmakers who contribute to this contribution, as well as the evaluations made in regard to the Ministry of Labor and Social Security and related organisations. But in addition to that, many of our fellow lawmakers have made some accusations and claims, unfortunately, which have pushed the limits of mercy. The Ministry of Labor and Social Security performs an extremely sensitive task. As you know, labor markets are also important in capital markets, in economic areas, in the economic system. You are an entrepreneur in these labour markets, including our employers and workers, and it is very important that the labor operate within a fair division, and at the same time, without harming our country's competitiveness, by obeying mutual interest and law, stays on the right ground. It is a major task for the capital community and for our labor unions. While the Ministry of Labour and Social Security represents political will, it will, of course, look after the rights and laws of millions of labors and employees, and look after their interests. However, it will not lead to some irresponsibility that will cause employers to lose their international competitiveness. Social security spending doesn't just include salaries. Besides pensions, health costs are also financed by employment programmes. In fact, with employment incentives added to costs, we can say that the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, which we are currently interviewing in 2013, controls and manages about $100 billion of resources. Dear lawmakers, along with the reforms our country has implemented over the past decade, have quickly separated from countries like us in a climate of trust and stability. While we are one of the Middle East countries in the geographic area, working and social security, in terms of industrial relations, I can say that we are closer to the standards that are involved in Western countries, and that we are even more prominent in some places. Of course, this government has taken over a painting that deepens with crises. Not only is it deepened by crises, but also by the constitution of coup, it has taken over its work life. Unfortunately, in Turkey, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security has taken over the country's economy and working relations in an environment where relations with the IMF continue. So at this point, we have to make a very good assessment of the time we've come in, the time we've compared. By raising national revenues at the level of $3,000 to the level of $10,000, by raising minimum wage at $120 to $420, and by taking over an employment environment where insurance premiums are regarded as bonuses by employers, our government has achieved what we came to today by managing this entire difficult process in the best possible way in a very short time. Of course, all the speakers, in the narrowness of time... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's a sign. I, too, salute your high council with these thoughts and feelings.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0183par0098	Thank you. The seventh speaker is Ekrem Çelebi, Ağrı MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0184par0101	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security in 2013. On this occasion, I salute you all. Turkey, along with the EC PARTI government, has been re-established from education to health, transportation to public housing, agriculture to industry, economy to export. As developed Western countries sleep with crisis and wake up with crisis, Turkey moves on with confidence towards the future. Today, the IMF, which became almost part of our daily life before 2002, is not even read. We are no longer a country that lays hands on the IMF, but lends money to the IMF. Turkey is breaking the record of our republic's history in exports. In 2002, our exports were around $36 billion, and today it is over 150 billion. We became a visionary country that couldn't see 12 hours later, planned 12 years later and set its strategic goals as a date of 2023. As a result of all of this, Turkey has become a country that is coveted and coveted by its economy around the world. For the first time, the principle of the social state, which the opposition did not bring down from the language of the opposition, could not move beyond the electoral squares, slogans, and slogans, came to life with the power of the EC PARTI for the first time. During our ten years of power, we have implemented many reforms in the field of work and social security, as well as in the field of our society. I'd like to share a few of these reforms with you: We've brought Business Law 4857 into working life. We've been implementing the years of debated social security reform. We combined Act 5502 and Social Security institutions under one roof. In particular, because of İSKUR, today, $28.5 trillion has entered my own knowledge of Ağrı (a.k. a.k. a.k. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. This, in turn, is the equivalent of money, especially in the annual rations of a province. Norm and I provided standard staff unity, and we've brought society into the general health insurance area here. We began to offer equal and fair health care regardless of who the individuals were, what the authorities were. We set up a sustainable social security system. General Health Insurance was adopted on January 1, 2012. You know, there used to be SEC and BUG-KUR hospitals in this country. The citizen couldn't go to the hospital, and even if he did, he couldn't take medication this time. So we put all the hospitals together and opened all the pharmacies to the service of our citizens. In our power, we have made hospital doors a healing door, not a door to torture. We've raised their health care approval rates from 39% to 79 percent. We've fulfilled the dreams of our pensioners. For years, we've made arrangements for pensions in this country that are waiting for pensioners who can't afford their rights. Again, every service I've counted since then has been given to our AK PARTY powers. The AK PARTY gave life to employment packages again. In particular, we've provided a five-point discount on the employer's insurance premium. We have brought encouraging provisions for the employment of women, young people and disabled people. As of 2002, the number of disabled officers increased by 5,770, with a rate of up to 400 per cent in 2012. Again, the number of disabled workers in the public and private sector reached 38,339, as of the end of 2011. So we minimized the impact of the global crisis on employment, the employment impact that I call a state contribution, and we reduced it to one level. In particular, the remains of the September 12 coup are being wiped off by the AK PARTY government once again. In this sense, public officials, who have been debated and put before dozens of governments for years, have again brought collective agreements to public officials who have not been able to do or have not been encouraged to do so, and the law was adopted by the General Assembly on October 18, 2012. However, we did the Health and Safety Act. Besides, we didn't run over the minimum wage. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I hereby wish you all the best in the 2013 budget.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0185par0114	Thank you. The 8th speaker is İlknur Denizli, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0186par0117	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Occupational Qualification Agency, and I salute our House. The developing economies present an opportunity window with their young populations in the face of the aging population of the world's developed economies. Demographic superiority, demographic capital, as well as opening a window of opportunity, involves the danger of becoming a social and economic risk when the necessary arrangements are not made. First of all, when you're old enough to work for this young population, we have to create employment. In order for us to create employment, we have to have economic businesses that can compete with the world in the present, when the world is almost a single market. Aside from the other production elements, you can't turn into a growing, more valuable economy when you can't compete with the skills of your labor resources, with the skills of the world. Even when nothing else changes in an economy, increasing the efficiency of the labor force contributes positively to growth. Individuals with the ability to do their job right and according to standards create an extra value in the economy. Within the vision of 2023, an important part of the process that will allow us to achieve the goal of becoming one of the world's top 10 largest economies is to create a well-grown market for human resources and universal standards. The growth of qualified labor is crucial in two ways: 1) It will enable the effectiveness of our educational system. 2) Turkey at a global level will create a dynamic labour market that will give Turkey the competitive advantage. At this point, we observe that we have two problems. One is that our educational system is unable to raise labour forces in accordance with the demands of the labour market. The second is that the documents provided as a result of training are not based on satisfactory, objective measurements. Statistics show that the unemployment rate between straight high school graduates in our country today and those who have graduated from vocational and technical schools is close together. Clearly, there is no discernible demand for graduates of vocational and technical education in the labour market. It would be unfair to associate this situation with the quality of education in these schools alone. It is understandable to claim to have a professional skill in an environment where the standards of employment are not defined and not documented by authorities. The lack of professional definitions and professional standards causes businesses to try to raise their own employees one by one. Instead of focusing on developing the skills of production in the basic field of labor, trying to train at work, raising a professional mentor is a waste of time and money for businesses. In order to improve the healthy growth of the country's economy, both businesses and the labor of our people in the labour market, professional competency has to have transparent and reliable standards, quality assurance based on accredition, evaluation and documentation systems must be established and operated. That's where the mission of the Occupational Qualification Agency comes in, in order to develop Turkey's competitive workforce in the global economy, and to include this task force abroad within the acceptable system. The institution of vocational competence has completed its purpose and is doing very serious work. I know we need happier kids, happier grandchildren, confident individuals, people who feel happy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I believe this institution is very important in this matter. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0187par0133	Thank you. The 9th speaker is Halil Özcan, Şanlıurfa MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0188par0135	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Turkish and Middle East Amme Administration Institute in 2013. I salute your high council. FROM its establishment in 1953, TODAIE has successfully carried out its mission for Turkish public administration as an effective institution in fulfilling its functions established by the institution's law. In addition to serious and qualified short-term training, Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration Institute continue their work to prepare Turkish public administration for both the European Union and modern world norms. Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration Institute have already graduated from training and teaching programmes to 4,805 graduate students. As of 2012-2013 academic year, 207 students and 36 students continue their Ph.D. programmes, including five degrees and Azerbaijan nationals. Thanks to their experience in qualified education, the public-management master's programmes of the institute were certified by the European Public Administration Accreditation Association from 2009 to 2016. In this way, the master's degrees given by TODAIE have been internationally valid. Members of lawmakers are also given various trainings under 5 topics, including public staff training, vocational education, personal quality training, general-purpose education and human resources development training, starting in 2000. A total of 412 seminar programmes were organised between 2006 and 2012, and a total of 17,397 people participated in these programmes. In this regard, TODAIE is Turkey's pioneer institution, which meets the need for short-term education in the field of public administration. Another fan has given information and training to 483 public officials, including the 2770 (70), the senior public official, as well as 213 (213), by their experts on domestic and external threats towards Turkey and the Public Diplomacy Education Programme, which has been introduced since 2006. In addition, protocol between TODAIE and the State Chief of Staff has begun to be organised since September 2010. The purpose of the education programme is to help raise public executives, who follow social, economic, legal, and technological changes, and who make all solutions in the wake of rational assessments of public administration, based on participation, transparent and public service, and will carry our country back years. The services he has given in this scope are admirable at the point of adapting to technological and sociological elements that are rapidly developing and changing throughout the country. The student exchange programme is under the framework of a bilateral co-operation agreement between TODAIE and the People's Republic of China on behalf of Turkey as part of relations with foreign countries, particularly the Middle East. On the other hand, bilateral training agreements with Azerbaijan, Kyrgyztan, Kazakhstan, Iran, Tunisia, France, Italy, Albania, are also being implemented and implemented. When it comes to education, the budget is the heart's desire to make it the most satisfying. However, over time, the TODAIE budget has been continued to increase and improve. In this five-minute period of time, the total funding offered for 2013 to boost TODAIE services was $11,730,000. I hereby wish you all the best of the 2013 budget for our country, for our nation.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0189par0145	Thank you. The last speaker is Mahmoud Kozar, MP of Şanliurfa.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0190par0147	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the budget of the State Staff President. I hereby salute the High Council. The President of State Staff was founded in 1960, and as of December, we are celebrating the anniversary. I hereby congratulate Mr. Labour and Social Security Minister on this anniversary of the members of the State Chief of Staff, and wish you the continued good service. Dear friends, the President of State Staff is a very important and fundamental organization that oversees the implementation of all legislation for about 2.5 million of our public employees. It also guides all of our public employees and other public enterprises with a limited budget. The State Chief of Staff also has a very important role in guiding the state organization, as well as the operations related to personnel. The distribution of authority and tasks among state institutions in accordance with the requirements of service is one of the important tasks that our State Staff President has performed. Dear friends, the basic issue of which all of our public institutions, without a doubt, are public employees who serve our nation and our nation. From the first day we were in office as the EC PARTY, public employees were ignored, ignored, their most basic rights were considered, and significant historical steps were taken at the point of delivery of these rights. Because we believe that labor is sacred, and that the return of labor is not only an individual demand, but also an important factor in the greater growth of our country, the greater growth, and the release of a prosperous future for our children. One of the first acts we've done as the AK PARTI power, which we've done, as you all know, is the disbursement of the Emancipation Enforcement Fund, which was created against the will of the workers. Again, with the liquidation of this fund, which was created against the will of the workers and known as the Council Development Aid, a huge, huge number, such as about 17 quadrillion in budget deficits, which was supposed to be saved by public employees during the past administrations, and would be repaid with moisture, has been paid to our public employees again. Of course, while we're making these payments, we think we've taken a very important step towards restoring our employees' trust in the government of the civil servant while resolving their victims in the past. Because I don't think we can talk about people trusting their government in a place where they don't trust their government to do their basic duty to the nation, which I think we can agree on. Dear friends, as you know, along with the 2001 Community Talks Act, the only platform in our country where about 2.5 million public employees can seek the rights of all social and economic rights -- as you know -- is the basis for public discussion. Although the government is saying the last word in the collective meeting, even though the unions representing the workers had no sanction for this issue, collective agreements were approached during the AK PARTI administrations, with the seriousness of collective agreements, and in this fundamental approach, hundreds of problems have been solved concerning the economic and social and even autonomy rights that our government cares about. It is important to reduce the scope of the ban on union membership, to increase the period of paid leave, to give 1 degree to all officers, disciplinary pardon, to have all the staff under contract -- our fellow contractors in 2011 -- to be put on the staff, to end the application of substitute midwife nurses. For the first time this year, the collective contract table has been seated. Although there was no agreement on financial rights, an agreement was reached on some 63 fundamental issues regarding social and autonomy rights. Gene, at a meeting of the Public Advisory Board last month, some 161 of the issues have been resolved, and in the process, very important road maps have been set, and I say that all public employees and all of our civil servants representing them have been satisfied and appreciated. I, on this occasion, wish this budget to be a blessing, and salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0191par0158	Thank you. Mehmet Altay is now asking for a word on behalf of his own, the Footman's MP.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0192par0161	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in the 4th round talks of the 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill. I hereby salute your delegation and our beloved nation. Dear lawmakers, important work has been done during the EC PARTY administrations so that our country can have a strong and fast-functioning judicial system. In addition to the work our government has done in the field of justice, our judges and prosecutors, who serve in the high judiciary and first-degree judicial bodies, have high efforts and great contributions to our defense services, as well as to the selfless efforts and contributions of our staff in the justice department. Dear lawmakers, in this period the constitutional amendments needed to ensure the independence of the judiciary, neutrality and transparency have been made, focused on the conclusion of the proceedings in a reasonable time, the amendments have been made. At this time, the higher courts were strengthened, weighted for pre-service and in-service education, increasing the number of judges, prosecutors and staff. More utilities of science technology have been used, the Forensic Medical Association's activities have been activated, the work of strengthening the penal system has been done. Dear lawmakers, important developments have been made during the administration's era, especially in order to resolve the fact that our justice system's fundamental problem, the trial cannot be completed in a reasonable amount of time. In this regard, the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals, with Law 6110, have increased the number of members, allowing the apartments to work with more than one delegation. In addition, the prosecutor's and the coroner's needs have been met by HSYK, and the problem of the assistant staff of both high courts has been resolved. The number of staff in the courts has increased by 130 per cent in the last ten years. Dear friends, studies to increase the number of judges and prosecutors have been carried out during this period, with the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, the Constitutional amendment adopted as a result of the referendum, such as the Supreme Courts and Turkey's Justice Academy. Dear lawmakers have shown a continuous increase in the investment budget of the Ministry of Justice during the EC PARTY administrations over the years. As a matter of fact, in the central management budget bill, the Justice Ministry investment budget was calculated at $1 billion and 91m. This rate represents an increase of around 55 per cent compared to the previous year. This agreed investment budget will primarily contribute to solving the capacities problems of criminal execution institutions, completing the service buildings of the Supreme Court and regional court courts, building new courthouses, the sound and video information system, the implementation of SEGBIS. Dear lawmakers, the construction of 157 palaces of justice during this period has been completed, and many of them are under construction. One of them is the House of Servant Justice, which continues to be built in my district of Butler.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0193par0169	Tell me who's closing, Mr. Mehmet, who's closing...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0192par0170	We always said that on the platform, brother.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0193par0171	The citizen's a mess out there.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0192par0172	Our new and modern court of justice, as has been done so far in many palaces of justice, will provide a more comfortable working environment for all our forensic staff and lawyers. Dear lawmakers, with the work done during our EC PARTI administrations, justice is not justice. With its understanding, many steps have been taken with courage and determination to speed up the judiciary and to get a fair trial. I hereby wish the Justice Department budget and the central management budget of 2013, which is designed to bring justice services to the best point, to the best of our country and nation, and to all of you, I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0194par0176	Thank you. On behalf of the government, the first speaker is Justice Minister Sadullah Ergin. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Secretary, you have 25 minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0195par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, the General Assembly, I salute your people. Dear friends, I'd like to present you with some information about our work on the justice system in terms of the budget of our ministry and judicial institutions in 2013. I salute this occasion, again, our great coven. Dear lawmakers, the justice system is of great interest to the entire community. One day, all layers of society are able to cross paths with the justice system, and they can be influenced by practices one way or another. Although centuries have passed, nations are remembered for their justice system. Societys with a good justice system are glorified in front of history, and setbacks are not erased from their minds. That's where our effort is being gathered. We work day and night to leave a system of justice that works well for future generations. We are developing policies and implementing them with determination to make all elements of the system work in harmony and without fail. The main goal of our work is to ensure that our citizens can live in a country with a fully protected democracy. The minimum requirement for this is for justice to be investigated, which is reassuring. The first policy we've set to achieve fully in the system of justice is to reduce the workload of judicial bodies to a reasonable level. It is intended to be provided with legislation packages that have been under law over the past years. A matter of the quality of justice, such as a reasonable trial, will be possible only with the workload within reasonable limits. In this scope, a new method has been put into practice to change the provisions of our legislation by one-by-one. Another area that we develop and apply is the strengthening of human resources and organizational structure. The extraordinary efforts to strengthen high judicial bodies, increase the number of judges and prosecutors and the number of staff will continue until the problem is completely eliminated. Another element of change in the justice system is studies on infrastructure. The new palaces of justice, with its physical structure and technological equipment, met an important need. Our IT system, which has high standards in place, provides the basis for a more qualified justice service. Another area of activity that will serve the purpose of improving the quality of the justice system is our penal execution system, as well as the conclusion of trials in a reasonable time. For today, I'd like to point out that our execution institutions have not had significant problems other than a world-wide capacity problem. We are acting on the belief that further strengthening our country's democracy will only result in the co-existence of change in the infrastructure of legislation and the mindset. Therefore, we care deeply about the preparations for the new constitution under the roof of our great Parliament, but while we await our new constitution, we continue to provide a significant change in the measure permitted by the Constitution of 1982. This change is embodying all of our legislation, especially our new basic laws. We also intended to contribute to this change through the institutional structure that we created in our ministry in order to improve human rights practices. Dear MPs, what is the need to be a democratic law state? The first thing that comes to mind is the way we look for rights. In an advanced democracy, citizens must have a way of looking for rights that are suitable for results. And that's exactly why we're adding new ones to the right-seeking routes every day. The possibility of individual application to the Constitutional Court is an example. For the first time in years, concrete steps have been taken and necessary arrangements in this area, which is subject to long discussions and academic studies. In time, the system will be established in all its aspects and will be operational as a mechanism that will facilitate the lives of our citizens. As you know, this practice has actually begun as of September 24th. Another way to look for a new right is by the Public Control Agency. For the first time, our country has taken a concrete step in this field, just as it did in an individual application. Dear lawmakers, another problem we're trying to eliminate with the work we're conducting for a better justice system is the length of the trial. I'd like to point out in advance that we're making significant distances in this matter, but despite the progress we've made, I must point out that this problem isn't quite complete in our country yet, and this problem continues to be reduced. It is unacceptable for the state of law to remain indifferent to this situation. Here's one of the studies we've foreseen against this problem is to introduce compensation to our internal law, which is on the agenda of the General Assembly. Seven articles of this bill have been approved in the General Assembly, and the talks of the remaining 5 articles will, hopefully, continue after the budget law. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, all of the issues I've explained are for the protection and development of the laws of our citizens. New institutions and applications are a sign that the legal system of our country is making an important change. Another aspect of this change is alternative conflict solutions. These methods provide peaceful opportunities for our citizens to resolve their differences. Thanks to a compromise in our criminal justice system and the compromise we've brought in the past few months, the only way to solve legal problems is not to be judged. Starting in June 2013, our citizens will be able to appeal to the mediator for a faster resolution of their discrepancies before the trial or during the trial, which is a new solution. Dear lawmakers, as I've already stated, our public administration is based on the will to solve the areas of trouble permanently. Expansion of rights and freedoms in our country will prevent unnecessary tensions. The arrangement for translation services in judicial houses is a product of this understanding, and the bill was adopted on the commission and reached the General Assembly. One of the areas where we take measures to protect and improve the law of our citizens is the penal system. We've made some significant changes in our criminal execution system to meet some needs in the process and to develop our execution system within our understanding of human rights, and so far, we've moved the new changes to the presence of our Parliament, your valued deputies. This framework includes the ability of prisoners and prisoners to attend their families' funerals, to visit important diseases. Special provisions are involved in the bill that we bring to the prisoners who can't carry out their lives alone, that the execution of heavily ill or disabled prisoners may be delayed, that the juvenile prisoners may spend more time with their parents, that prisoners and prisoners may be allowed to stay in their homes for the purpose of the funeral. Again, this bill also organises the ability for well-documented prisoners and prisoners to be able to co-optive. An element of mental change in the administration of criminal execution institutions is the control mechanisms. Thus, we have made the same effort to increase the efficiency of the control mechanisms for these areas, while making improvements to our criminal execution institutions in order to bring human conditions to the top. Every step we take is covered by the law, the Ministry and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have been given the opportunity to be monitored by NGOs and international organisations. From where we are today, our criminal execution institutions are subject to five basic kinds of audits. These are administrative control, judicial control, civil society control, parliamentary control and control of international institutions. Honorable lawmakers have long since been abandoned in developed countries, where the penal justice system is limited only to freedom-binding sentences or economic punishments. Therefore, our criminal execution system has been included in a controlled liberalisation exercise. Controlled freedom is an alternative system of punishment and execution, provided with all the services, programmes and resources needed, in order to improve and bring the suspect, the defendant, or the prisoner, into the community, through the monitoring and monitoring of the community. Controlled freedom includes humanitarian practices for the entire community, especially those who practice the verbs considered criminal, and brings important opportunities in this area because of the high ability to reform. Because of this practice, the punishment of many prisoners who remain in prisons for simple crimes is now being executed in public. Our goal is to make our citizens' lives easier, as well as to ensure the full efficiency of justice services. Dear lawmakers, even though I have a lot to talk about at the point of our services in the General Assembly, our fellow lawmakers from the EC PARTY group have touched on many of these issues. Instead of repeating the same issues, I'd like to share my views on the determination of our opposition lawmakers, who have come and criticised, criticized, evaluated the budget, evaluated our judicial system. In this framework, our valued lawmakers have made significant assessments on this bench. I thank you for the constructive, guidance and suggestion server assessments of these findings. As with all our problems, our judgment has problems, and it is our primary preference to take common mental steps at the point of resolving these problems. But I think some evaluations here need compromise. I'll share these with you. Dear lawmakers, from this bench have been evaluated for several cases that have been seen. Some of our fellow lawmakers have identified some of the cases by quoting them. In order to make these evaluations, however, it would take all of those files to be known, to know the full indictment, to be exposed to the evidence in the file, and then to make an assessment. It is not fitting, again, to be made from this bench, according to the 138th Amendment of our Constitution. But we don't claim that our judicial system is without problems. There are certain problems with the Turkish judiciary, steps are being taken in a plan room, studies are being done, so that these problems can be overcome.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0196par0199	It's not diminishing, the problems are multiplying.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0195par0200	From time to time, we share these with you from this platform, and I will continue to share with you the consequences. There's been a discovery that there's been no investigation into the Posanti Prison perpetrators. In connection with those incidents, cases have been filed against both the officers working at the criminal execution institution and the investigations and lawsuits have been filed against those who were thought to have been involved in those cases; some of these cases have been concluded, some of them are continuing.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0196par0202	When? When were the cases filed, Mr. Secretary? Those cases were filed after our congressman friends left.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0195par0203	Dear friends, apart from that, one of our fellow lawmakers here has made an assessment of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. In fact, several of our deputies mentioned it, but I'm not going into details because one of our friends from our group shares the findings about HSYK, but I've come up with a suggestion here, which is that the HSYK members have been suggested not to be elected once, or elected for the second time, that a member of the MHP Group has suggested this -- this is something to be considered. Maybe one year, two years more, and the members will be re-elected, and we think it might help the members of the HSYK work more smoothly. Other than that, there's not only one party, but there's one thing that our deputies from several parties have been saying, which is that it's a question of arrested journalists in Turkey, and it's found that Turkey is the country that has the most arrested journalists in the world. Dear lawmakers, this issue also came up in the 2011 budget last year, and we had these discussions during those budget talks. I, for one, express from this bench that Turkish democracy and the legal system are steps that must be taken against the European Court of Human Rights and the Convention on Human Rights. We've also expressed that we've done some serious work in order for these steps to be taken. In 2011, we organised a study with the Council of Europe in Ankara, and in this study, a long work was done at the point of determining the reasons, reasons and steps that should be taken to eliminate the violation decisions made against Turkey, and as a result of this study, the product is known in public work under the name of the Fourth Judiciary Package, which is now on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. Hopefully, the day we send this package from there to our Parliament, I think we may have received a significant portion of the criticism of freedom of speech, freedom of the press. However, I have a request from the General Assembly, which is that either the issue of journalists under arrest or the issue of arrested students in this country is being given a very comfortable assessment.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0197par0208	The MPs, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0195par0209	We can get the MPs involved in this. The number of MPs is clear, there is no speculation on that subject, so I didn't express it for him, but there's a lot of aphasic and different numbers about arrested journalists and arrested students. In last year's budget talks, I reported that CPJ had reported that there were eight arrested journalists in Turkey's prisons in 2011. As a result, a serious reaction came from the trade organisations against CPJ (CPJ). After this 2011 report, CPJ published a report of 76 people in 2012. Sadly, even though 70 of these 76 were in 2011, they were not considered journalists in 2011. Why did you report to CPJ in 2011, when asked? There are many journalists in the prison. They were called. At the time, CPJ made this statement: "There are eight people we can connect to the profession of journalism and the fact that they are in prison. "
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0197par0210	So, Mr. Secretary, what do you make of this bond?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0195par0211	This statement was published in the Milliyet newspaper. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Dear friends, I'm not saying this to make a polemic here, but I'm going to say this.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0198par0214	I mean, look, it's in the papers, Mr. Secretary, is there or isn't there more arrested journalists in Turkey than Iran and China?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0195par0215	I'm saying that we have problems, but to make them look bigger than they are, I'm saying that overzealous zeal to accuse our country of something that isn't there, inside and out, is going to hurt all of us.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0198par0216	Mr. Secretary, 100,000 people will be in Silivri tomorrow, 100,000 people!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0195par0217	Explaining the 76-person report in October, the CPJ revised the 76-person report as of yesterday, bringing it down to 49. What has changed since October, but has the 76-person report been reduced to 49?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0199par0218	You're world-class again.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0198par0219	We're still first in the world, even if it's 49, Mr. Secretary. 49 is less?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0195par0220	The Ministry of Justice's statements were shared on platforms both domestically and abroad, which narrowed the 76-person list down to 49 yesterday.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0198par0221	Well, is it less or is it 49, less?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0195par0222	I hereby declare that this list of 49 persons will be downloaded because it is still within the list of 49 people -- I make it very clear from here -- robbing banks, killing men, killing police, killing guards, kidnappings, extortions...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0200par0223	How many?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0201par0224	Tell me how many, Mr. Secretary, tell me one by one.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0202par0225	How many, Mr. Secretary, how many?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0203par0226	I'll count from here.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0204par0227	That's a charge; it's not a decision.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0203par0228	Dear lawmakers, the trial of seven of these defendants is over, their convictions have been finalized. My evaluations are on this bench for those whose judgment is over, whose convictions have been finalized. Other than that, I don't make any identifications for those who continue to judge, and I don't judge them out of respect and concern that they don't.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0205par0230	How many arrested students, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0203par0231	Seven confirmed. I read the verbs of these seven people here; they have nothing to do with journalism. Yesterday, one of our police officers was killed in Istanbul. It's part of the verbs committed by members of the organization that killed that cop. Please don't hold onto these just to increase the number of journalists.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0205par0234	Mr. Secretary, no one's taking care of it.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0203par0235	If anyone's actually in prison in this country for journalism activity...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0206par0236	Balbay, Balbay, Balbay, Balbay, Balbay,
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0203par0237	Let's work together here to solve their problems. We're not denying it. For these...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0207par0238	Whose killer is Mustafa Balbay, Mr. Secretary? What's the crime of Mustafa Balbay?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0203par0239	It can be worked for them, too. We can actually sit down for those who are in prison because of journalistic activity and come up with some common-minded solutions, but...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0207par0240	Did Soner Yalçın rob a bank, Mr. Secretary? Four years in prison, Soner Yalçın robbed a bank?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0203par0241	...do not commit armed robbery and murder in front of Turkey as a journalist. I'm asking you all to do this.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0208par0243	Mr. Secretary, did Mustafa Balbay kill a man, Soner Yalçın killed a man?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0207par0244	Mr. Secretary, Ergün Poyraz, Soner Yalçın robbed a bank?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0203par0245	Dear lawmakers, another issue is the issue of arrested students, just like the arrested journalists.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0208par0246	Zeynep Kuray killed a man?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0203par0247	There have been numerous reports of arrested students in this country.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0209par0248	That's no justice.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0203par0249	Look, I've listened to you, so if you'll just bear with me for a little while.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0210par0250	You're not giving me the right information.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0209par0251	100,000 people will be in Silivri tomorrow, Mr. Secretary. Can you talk about justice in Silivri?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0203par0252	A friend of ours, a congressman in this parliament, made a statement that 500 students from universities were arrested in prisons.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0211par0253	That's an understatement, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0203par0254	We called this friend of ours, and we asked him, we said, "My dear congressman friend, would you share these names with us, and we'll do a study?" We insisted they could send us a list of 227. 500 people have been made public, a list of 227 people has arrived.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0212par0255	Less, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0203par0256	We've been working on this list, and I'm sharing it with you. 40 of them have never been to prison, no record of them being released from prisons, 52 of whom have been released, 25 of whom have graduated from elementary school, 110 of whom are university students.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0213par0257	How many months after the evacuation, Mr. Secretary? How many months were the parolees in prison, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0203par0258	If I share the reasons why 110 people are in prison here, there's gonna be a lot of prudish stuff. Dear friends, journalists, lawyers, students, engineers, dentists, anyone...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0214par0260	There are children inside, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0203par0261	...if he steals, kills, mugging, commits a number of deliberate infractions, the work will be done.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0215par0262	The thieves are outside, our deputies are inside.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0203par0263	Later, the Arrested Students issued a list of 771 people, under arrest. We got a list of them, we did some work. I can share every single detail here, line by line. 87 people who were college students...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0216par0264	Mr. Secretary, please don't defend this painting, don't defend this painting as Minister of Justice! It's not a painting to defend, it's a painting to be ashamed of.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0203par0265	We've been given a question proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, by exaggerating our existing problems, by showing them more than they already are... Thanks to you, there is no justice left in this country, there is no trust in justice. ...that I don't think it's right to try to make Turkey look different abroad, in the country. The third package of judgments came out, and some of our fellow MPs said: "This package of justice has been removed, but it has not done anything." Look, in that package, we have removed the upper limit of judicial control practices. Let me share his outcome with you. In January 2012, there were 1,775 people on trial without arrest for judicial control. After removing the third package in July, we removed the upper border. I give you the figures in November: 5,323 people were released on probation in November.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0217par0270	Except for the MPs. Tell me that, Mr. Secretary, except for the MPs.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0203par0271	It worked more than three floors, and it's starting to work. In the wake of the 3rd package of judgments, the person who was in prison with nearly 34,000 probationary freedoms has been released, and has begun to serve his sentence in public. Another... journalist, about 500 people, including writers, were released for trial without arrest by taking advantage of the arrangements in the 3th Criminal Package.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0218par0273	Mr. Secretary, you're releasing petty criminals, political criminals inside.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0219par0274	There is no justice in your reign, Mr. Secretary. Have another glass of water on that! Have another glass of water!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0203par0275	Ladies and gentlemen, I have patiently listened to the opposition here for five hours, but my 20-minute, 25-minute speech has not been tolerated.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0219par0276	But it's unbearable, Mr. Secretary. The biggest problem in this country is injustice. It happened in your era.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0203par0277	I say that with every passing day in Turkey, we will continue our decisive steps towards building future, reassuring justice, by reducing the problems of the judiciary, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0220par0279	How many more MPs are you going to arrest, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit04spe0221par0280	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0221par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2011 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Congressmans, I will now make a promise to the Minister of Labour and Social Security, but there are 1 Prime Minister's thesis before we make a promise. This is about the International Labour Agency (ILO), which is a member of our country, as per Article 19 of the Constitution (ILO), which states to provide information to the legislature regarding the agreements and recommendations adopted at international work conferences. After having the ILO Constitution read the Prime Minister's thesis, I will make a promise to the Minister of Labour and Social Security first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Care: dated 21/11/2012 and B. 13. 0. OH. 0. 11. 00. Article 00/730-211. From May 30th to June 14, 2012, 101 was held in Geneva. The International Study Conference adopted, dated 14/6/2012 and recommended advice on Social Protection Tables 202 were sent to the Turkish Minister of Labor and Social Security to provide information to the Grand National Assembly during budget talks. I'll give you what you need. It has been presented to your knowledge. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] After I brief you on the counter, I'll reboot your time to make your speech on behalf of the government.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0222par0021	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been accepted in the 101st edition of the International Labour Organization in June, with the recommendation on the basis of social protection. The conference was attended by a delegation of presidents on behalf of our country. I'll brief you on this recommendation. The 100th Assembly of the International Study Conference in 2011 has determined that a recommendation for the establishment of social security bases in line with the status and level of development of member states would be needed to complete ILO's existing social security standards and provide recommendations for member states. In this framework, during the 101st International Labor Conference, the draft text's final recommendation was adopted in a unanimous vote by the General Assembly on 14 June 2012, and the vote voted for the adoption of our country's recommendation. As you know, the right to social security is an economic and social requirement for the development and progress of countries, especially as the United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948 and the 1966 International Convention on Economics, Social and Cultural Rights. In addition, the International Labour Organization's 2008 declaration on social justice for a fair globalisation states that in order to establish and promote an effective social security system, the measures for national and sustainable social protection must be taken and strengthened. Influential national social security systems are powerful tools to secure income, prevent poverty and inequality, or reduce social inclusion and promote dignity. Social security improves efficiency and employmentability and supports economic development if it is well-designed and is linked to other policies. As an effective element of automatic stability, social security contributes to mitigating the economic and social impact of economic crises, strengthening stability and faster recovery towards inclusive growth. To this end, it is imperative for every country to run and develop a quality, fair, accessible, human-oriented, active and financially sustainable social security system. It is a necessity for people who do not have social security to be included in social protection so that they do not become victims of social risks that they may face and to take sufficient measures to access basic health care for citizens of the state. Of course, social protection is the way to sustainable economic development and social justice. Mr. President, the content of the 202 Numbered Advice Decision on Social Protection Steps of 24 paragraphs, adopted at the General Assembly of the 101st International Labor Conference, consists of: The provision of basic social security guarantees at national level that provide a protection aimed at preventing poverty, vulnerability and social exclusion or reducing social exclusion. As soon as possible, the establishment and continuation of social protection bases consisting of basic social security guarantees. A minimum of basic health care and income guarantees for all who need it, providing effective access to goods and services at a national level, defined as essential throughout life. To ensure that social protection bases are made up of the minimum four basic social security guarantees below. Access to all defined goods and services at the national level, including maternity care. It's a minimum level of basic income guaranteed for children at least at the national level. For those of you who are active working age and can't make enough income, at least a minimum-level income guarantee defined at the national level. It's at least a nationally defined minimum basic income guarantee for elderly people. Finally, the creation and implementation of national strategies for expanding social security. I submit to the knowledge of the High Council.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0223par0037	Yes, Mr. Secretary, I'm rebooting. Here you go. [[Continue]] [[Continue]] 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Justice Department Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association for Prisons 2013 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons Cut Central Management 2011 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey's Justice Academy Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2011 E) AGENTS AND AGENTS ARE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Labour and Social Security Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Ministry of Labor and Social Security Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The President of the Occupational Qualification Board for 2013 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Occupational Qualification Board for 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey and Middle East Amme Administration Institute Central Management Budget 2013 2) Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration Institute Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The State Staff President's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2011
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0072	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we welcome you on behalf of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security's 2013 budget talks, with the honor of the Grand Assembly. Precious lawmakers are discussing a ministry, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, which is providing education to public employees through TODAIE and through national and international sectors, which maintains unemployment and employment services through the Social Security Agency; who operates health care, social security, pension services through the Social Security Agency; who maintains the strengthening of education and security through the Employment and Security Agency; who operates services that care closely for our citizens, including business health and safety; and the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. Dear friends, here, the very dear friends of my Ministry's budget have made promises, made evaluations, criticised, guided, and I thank all of them. In this framework, rather than passing on a text to you, I would like to continue my discussion within the framework of clarifying the issues mentioned by our dear fellow congressmen who are speaking here. Our dear opposition friends, who have expressed their views here, have made some assessments of the fact that important legal arrangements have been carried out within this ministry, that these legal regulations are in favour of employees, that they are in favour of employees, that they are in favour of employees, that they will be discussed. First of all, dear friends, we have all passed the Law on Health and Safety here. Is there anything that can be said about this against those who work? Is it possible to say that? So I'm going to talk about business health-security in Turkey in a moment, but we've all done this Law together, and Turkey has no law on future occupational health and safety, and Turkey has passed such a law. It's against the workers. I guess you won't either. The right to a collective contract is a very important right. For years, there has been a struggle for the right to a collective contract. They got the right to public employees and we got the first collective contract. Of course, democracy is a process, there are new expectations, and efforts will continue to reach these expectations, but I find it difficult to ignore these steps, ignore this progress, and find an answer.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0225par0078	What about the strike ban on the air force?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0079	The Union Act was in front of us as a law of September 12th, Law 2821-22. Even after thirty years, the 24th Parliament, all of us, have made a very important contribution, all of our friends, and we have passed this law here. What was the most controversial subject? It was about the dam. We've drawn 10 percent of the dam to zeros, to one, to the three, and we've done it with compromise. In industrial relationships, dialogue is what's really about compromise. I think it's very important to make this compromise with his opposition in parliament, and to make this compromise with his power in parliament, and to conduct these negotiations with NGOs, social parties, and eventually put the final point in Parliament and make it legal.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0226par0081	The law of the Kenan Universe was better, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0082	There are hundreds, thousands of collective contracts that can't be reached, but they are now widely authorized to make collective contracts, and our unions have been cleared. In 2009, our trade unions were authorized to sign another collective contract. The newly established unions are not being sought for a labour arm dam, so many rights... notary requirements have been lifted, all the talk of improvements have been made. So I don't think we should ignore them. The Intigation Act was in reality -- in its capacity -- from the important demands of working life -- we carried out the initiative. Can we say against the employees? Or I don't think it's right to judge the pensioners against those who sweat for this country. As a matter of fact, the earthquake, God forbid, there was an earthquake in the van, an earthquake in Simav, a twenty-day public servant of our fellow teachers, we did it together on the subject of the rights being tied to the monthly, the rights being tied to the wages of their rightful owners, so is this an ordinary event? We've made these arrangements here, and we've made some very important arrangements for the earthquake victims here, and we've covered those wounds together. Shouldn't these arrangements be made or not? In fact, as I find it hard to understand, we're also bringing in an arrangement from here, which we're meeting with our dear congressman friend, at the Plan and Budget Commission, and I'm going to personally visit groups -- which we find appropriate to disintegrate by the end of the budget by the group -- concerning our 4,400,000 citizens, who are extremely concerned about their relationship with social security and their difficulties. I'd like to give you an example: A young person who finished high school waits four or five months for his transfer to college. During that time, he is asked for a income test and has a health benefit. Currently, 406,000 of our students have received a bonus from June to today. We're also bringing in the past date, and we're bringing in this arrangement, and it's an arrangement that eliminates the gap between high school and college when we go to college. I hope to see a lot of important arrangements like this here when the law comes. I'd like to say that all the legal regulations in the Ministry of Labor -- as well as other ministries, but since it was the Ministry of Labor -- were excluded from Turkey, and the immediate fulfillment of it was desired by everyone. I thank all my fellow lawmakers on the General Assembly, we did it together, we did it together, we opened the way for work together.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0226par0084	We did it together. Don't say that, Mr. Secretary, I opposed it.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0085	As for another issue, dear friends, an assessment has been made as to how the ministry is reduced to $35 billion in 2011 and 32 billion in 2012, and how the Ministry of Labor can carry on with its work life, and how will a ministry whose budget is shrinking? We certainly disagree with that. See, the Ministry, a ministry with transfers, is running on transfers to its budget. Now, in this frame, you're going to increase your income, you're going to reduce your expenses. That's the point of us sitting in these seats. If you sit in these seats, you'll reduce expenses, increase revenues. What have we done? In 2012, the revenue estimate would be 133 billion, but we made it 140 billion. We've increased our income. So revenues are going up, revenues are going down, so whether you're going to lower the deficits, especially in social security -- and there are 15 million insured -- look at the way you're looking at the number in 2009 -- 18 million,500,000 -- when you look at the numbers, we see that this is a positive impact on the budget. So other ministries may differ, but if the budget at the Ministry of Labor and Social Security is reduced from 35 to 32, then revenues have been increased, expenses reduced, transfer needs reduced, not 25 billion, 20 billion dollars are now in demand of the Treasury. I think it would be better to see it this way. Dear friends, I would also like to point out that social security deficits are down from 3 per cent to 1.5 per cent. In addition, the active-passage rate, which was 1.78 per cent in 2009, has now risen to 1.94 per cent for the first time. So, social security reform, after 2008 -- in fact, it's a very detailed issue -- is that the active-pass ratio from 1.78 to 1.94 is that we're almost at a pensioner's point of almost 2 employees. What point do we have to come to? We need to move Turkey to a pension point of one to four employees. That's what I'm saying here, to emphasize that there's a very healthy trend in this direction, not at the speed we want it to go. In addition, while our population growth is 1.8%, I would like to point out that there is a 7.3 per cent increase in active insurance. On the other hand, our dear congressman friends have touched on business health, safety. The issue of occupational health care, dear friends, as of today, 2% of our workplaces are covered by occupational health care, 2%. 98% is not within that scope. 38% of our workers are covered by occupational health and safety, 62% are not covered by occupational health and safety. The law we passed is very important to him, so don't underestimate it. It's a very important arrangement in terms of our industrial relations, in terms of our working life. It covers all the businesses, all the employees. The public employee, his employee, his officer, and our Law on Business Health and Safety take all employees under umbrellas, and most importantly, this law brings a risk assessment. First of all, it's a very important law, not to take precautions before the accident, but to take precautions after the death, but to take precautions before death, and you're left here as an audience? He said, "Did you stay here?" And he said, "We brought this law so that we wouldn't have to stand by." And We brought this law, and We said, "Let there be no more killing." So what happened? In 2002, 16,9-17 workers lost their lives in 100,000 workers, while 7.6 workers died today. The European average, dear friends...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0227par0092	Your numbers aren't right, Mr. Secretary, your numbers aren't right.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0093	...four out of a hundred thousand European averages. Four out of 100,000 workers lose their lives, we get 7.6. We cut it 50-50, but it's not enough.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0228par0094	Tell me if we're the European 1st.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0095	So this law -- it's going to go into effect as of January 1st -- I believe that we don't want anyone to die in what we call the international standard, but as a result, it can't be avoided. It is about 1.5 per cent and 22% in the first 15 countries of the European Union, but in 27 countries of Europe, the current rate of death in business accidents is 4 per 100,000. We're mobilising to capture these numbers, we've carried out legal infrastructure regulations.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0229par0096	Mr. Secretary, most of them are missing business accidents on the house.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0097	There are three occupational hospitals. They say it's true. There are three occupational hospitals, but remember, 129 hospitals have been diagnosed. So 129 hospitals -- public hospitals, university hospitals, educational hospitals -- have the opportunity to diagnose occupational illness. It's not like it was yesterday, let me put it this way. The subject of child labor has been touched. In our Employment Law, it is made clear that those under 15 years of age, those who do not receive a day after 15 years, cannot be employed, nor are they allowed to work. What are you going to do now? In fact, children between the ages of 15 and 18 can only be employed at workplaces that will not interfere with their physical and spiritual development and education. What are we supposed to do? One reality, we all know these facts in Turkey: In Turkey, the child is not supposed to work on the street, it is not supposed to work in industry. What should we do as Ministry? Compulsory inspections. We're conducting inspections to prevent child labor. We also have extensive projects to improve awareness, and with these projects, we are trying to increase awareness on all sides of Turkey from Edirne to Kars. I believe that these studies will continue to yield more and more fruit every day. The unemployment issue was discussed here. Dear friends, we're good at bringing unemployment down. It doesn't mean anything if I don't appreciate it, you don't appreciate it. The world appreciates it. You're going to the G20 meeting. You're the one who dropped the unemployment rate the most quickly during the crisis. They call it. You're going to ILO, like this. That's what they tell us at all the international meetings. This is the country's success, so that's the image from the outside, that's the image from the inside. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Now, there may be criticism. Tenkidi... look, Haydar Bey, you might say: "Ya, this 8,8 is a little bit higher and lower." Of course, we respect that, but I'm giving you the numbers now: the European Union unemployment average is 10.7; unemployment average is 10.7 in France.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0230par0102	We're at 140 percent, Mr. Secretary. Let's go for a ride together.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0103	...11.1 in Italy; 26.2 in Spain; 25.2 in Greece; 16.3 in Portugal; 16.3 in Turkey...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0230par0104	They're real, yours is TİK Minister.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0105	Young unemployment, look, I want you to see young unemployment. Youth unemployment averages 23.4; France 25.4; Italy 36.5; Spain 55.9 youth unemployment.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0230par0106	Come, for God's sake, let's go for a ride together in Abysseli. The capital of industry, let's go for a ride together.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0107	Greece is 57, 100 young people 57.1 out of work in Greece and Portugal 39.1 in youth unemployment.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0231par0108	Mr. President, would you please step in?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0109	Now, what is Turkey? Turkey's unemployment rate is 8.8 as of August, while youth unemployment is 17.2. In four years...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0232par0110	Can you tell me who's out of a job with a college degree? Can you tell me about the college-educated unemployment rate?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0111	Look... why does it bother you? In four years... [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Friends, time is precious. We've had four million jobs in four years. We have done a job here as much as the population of many countries of Europe. Let's look at women. Look, in women...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0233par0116	I'll forward the phones to you from now on.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0117	The rate of participation in the labour force in women is 23.3 in 2004; 30.1 in 2012. The employment rate in women is 20.8 in 2004; the employment rate in women is 26.8 in 2012.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0234par0118	Mr. Secretary, time is running out.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0119	Now, there have been some assessments of İSKUR.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0234par0120	No, come to 4/C, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0121	And I say to the fellow who evaluates İSKUR,
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0235par0122	Mr. Cetin, please.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0123	The ministry does not manage the unemployment fund, it does not manage the unemployment fund, it does the unemployment fund. Who's on the board of directors? There's labor representatives, there's employer representatives, there's trade union representatives, there's ministry representatives, there's treasure representatives. It's run in this frame.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0236par0124	They're all accomplices.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0125	Has the funds been transferred from the fund to the Gap? Transferred. We made the legal arrangement here together, it's been passed on. How much was transferred? $11.3 billion transferred. And you all know that we're here to make a legal arrangement for the recycling of this. The National Employment Strategy was published. It was expressed here. It hasn't been published. We've done a very thorough study of the National Employment Strategy, dear friends. What is the National Business Strategy? A national strategy, which includes the goal of attracting unemployment to 5 per cent in 2023, is an employment strategy. This arrangement has four basic policies, seven sectors, 40 targets, 57 policies, 205 measures.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0236par0127	Is there a regional minimum wage, severance pay, flexible work in this?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0128	Purpose? The goal is to reduce unemployment to 5 percent in 2023. Our vocational training courses continue widely in the ISKUR to attract to 5%, and we continue to do so. In addition, our business and professional advisers visited 106,000 people, the factory, the workplace in four months. They came, they looked at the unemployment bank, they looked at the unemployment portfolio. They've adapted 106 thousand people and put them to work. Dear friends and fellow workers have also mentioned our dear friends here.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0236par0130	Time's running out, Mr. Secretary. Tell me about this 4/C.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0131	I'm sorry, but since the ministry is interested in all citizens, I'm going to have to make it short. The world knows we don't get workers crushed by inflation, we don't get fixed incomes crushed by inflation, and you know it. I don't know how you say that.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0236par0133	Come on, swear an oath, if you believe!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0237par0134	For God's sake, don't throw it away!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0135	Not 100 percent, not 200 percent, but over 300 percent of our pensioners and other fixed incomes, you all know. Now, we've carried out the initiative. Look, I don't know who was the intel here.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0237par0137	That's not the policy!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0138	Mr. President-General gave a speech here, and he said, "This government, this government, when the pensioners were getting a share of the country's welfare share, has taken it away. You're asking about the government who lifted it, this government. Dear friends, we are now giving our pensioners a share of 30 percent prosperity, our country's development share, one.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0237par0140	Okay... and then, a year later?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0141	Two: Before 2000, pensioners did not receive a share of the welfare share.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0238par0142	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0143	That's why we've got the Intuition Act.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0239par0144	Mr. Akar, Mr. Cetin, please...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0145	And in accordance with the Etiology Act, we have 75% of our pensioners...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0240par0147	What happened a year later?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0224par0148	Look -- it's important -- we gave 75 percent to the pensioners before 2000, a share of their prosperity, and I want to say that we've now eliminated that arrangement, past error, past injustice. Under the initiative arrangement, 760,000 pensioners will make a difference between 100 and 200 euros -- 762 thousand pensioners from January 1st to January 1st; 714,000 pensioners will receive a difference between 100 and 200 euros.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0240par0150	What's the hunger limit? Our 283,000 pensioners will receive the difference between $200 and $322 under the arrangement. We're rectifying past wrongs, injustices in this frame.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0241par0152	Come to those who hang out, Mr. Secretary! The things you care about, Mr. Secretary, live... come to those who hang out.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0242par0153	Now, what does the new law bring? Mr. Kalayci said. I just explained what the new law brings. We're currently working in the kitchen on the contract staff for the final service increase. We've taken representatives of subcontractors, political party groups, and we've been working with them on sub-employees for our subcontractors. Our mayors have been brought up. The Mukhtars are getting $99, and they're getting $420 today. It's not enough. You can call it $420.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0243par0156	Mr. Secretary, what about the BUG-KUR bonus? How much did the bond-raising bonus go up?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0244par0157	Mr. Aslanoglu, you can't be heard!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0242par0158	What did we do? I'm the Minister of Labor and Social Security.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0243par0159	A bond-raising bonus...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0242par0160	I get it.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0243par0161	Yeah, where'd it go?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0242par0162	Look what we did. Dear friends, we've brought in a month's insurance policy for our chiefs, our village chiefs, our social security premiums for 15 days. Who? We brought it to our village chiefs. The salary also increased from 99 TL to 420 TL. The issue of increase, of course, can be assessed, spoken for.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0245par0163	Mr. Secretary, I was wondering...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0243par0164	Mr. Secretary, come to your old age, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0242par0165	Yeah, he's from 4/C...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0246par0166	Mr. Aslanoglu, you can't be heard, please speak a little louder.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0243par0168	Come to your senses, live!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0242par0169	We've also increased the working time of the collective contract for 4/C/C/E personnel to 11 months and 28 days. We raised the 4/C people to 11 months and 28 days in the collective contract. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) The opportunity to work has been granted, the conditions have been improved. You know, the temps, they've all been recruited for over six months. Where does the growth go, where does the growth go? A congressman of ours with a union background asked. See where growth goes: in ten years, the number of workers has increased by 124%.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0247par0171	How many union workers are there?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0242par0172	In ten years, the number of jobs has increased by 105 percent. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) The number of jobs is 105 percent, the number of employees...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0247par0173	How many union workers are there?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0242par0174	We gave the fixed-income people an increase in inflation, we gave them a difference, we gave them benefits. We've invested in mountain, stream, hill, wherever you want, we've converted Turkey into investment paradise. Where'd the growth go? So where did the growth in 2011 go, which was 8.5, go to 75 million nations, my friends.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0247par0176	The subcontractors are waiting for an answer.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0242par0177	Last but not least, the CDC, the Occupational Qualification Agency, very important friends. It gives an international certificate and sets standards. Our country has 750 professional standards, 355. There are 355 standard standards. Now, as of January 1st, he and İSKUR will work together, and these standards will be provided according to the 355 professional standards, and the certificates provided will be valid internationally. Now, as in every field, we do our work, not randomly, in this area, but with a clear target.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0247par0178	Come to modern slavery, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0242par0179	Now, dear friends, there are so many things that it's hard to put together.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0248par0180	Mr. Secretary, say two words about age-appropriates.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0242par0181	Our friends, our fellow speakers, explained what was done with TODAIE. You're asking about the organisation of the State Chief of Staff; our officers' organisation rate is 68 percent.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0249par0183	Joint union!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0242par0184	There's 68 percent organization. The workers, along with the new law, are fake workers...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0249par0185	How many union workers are there? What's it down to in ten years?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0250par0186	What's the number of union workers down to?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0251par0187	Mr. Pine, Mr. Cetin...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0252par0188	Okay. Friends, despite everything, I thank you very much for your contribution.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0253par0190	Mr. Secretary, to those who hang out at the age, live... those who hang out at that age...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0252par0191	I wish you well in the budget. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0254par0194	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0255par0195	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0254par0196	I have a brief request for the 60th Amendment, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0255par0197	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0254par0200	Thank you, Mr. President. The minister drew a picture so pink that the country was prosperous, there was no unemployment; everyone had a job; everyone took their homes, took their cars, took their summer homes, went to Europe on vacations. Mr. Secretary, I don't know where this is. You must have built a wall against the guards and the secretaries and the unemployed in your office; none of them can reach you or hear their screams. There are 5 million unemployed in the country. You mentioned the unemployment fund. See, the unemployment fund in 2012 has 61 billion liras, 61 quadrillion liras in the old number, 71 quadrillion liras in 2013, and you give only 1 percent of the annual fund revenue, not even 1 percent to unemployed citizens. You're on top of this money, you're on loan, you're on loan, you're on debt, you're on debt, you're on debt, you're on debt, you're on debt, you're on debt, you're on debt, you're on debt, you're on debt, you're on debt, you're on debt, you're on debt, you're on debt, you're on debt, you're on debt, you're on debt, you're on debt, you're on debt, you're on debt, you're on debt, you're on debt, you're on debt. You're not giving that money to the unemployed. You weigh so delicately at minimum wage that you're trying to give as much inflation as it is, but you've drawn a very different picture here. This painting doesn't appeal to citizens, citizens aren't happy, they're looking for work. We'll direct those unemployed to you from now on, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0256par0204	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0257par0205	Mr. President, we're going to have a word with you. Mr. Attorney General... Due to the bullying, we request a minute or two from the stand.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0256par0207	Okay? There's no such thing. No, no... please...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0257par0208	Well, Mr. President, let's just say...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0256par0209	But Mr. Hamzacebi asked me to tell you where he is, and you want a short word...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0257par0210	Now, no, he asked for a different substance, and I want it because of the bullying.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0256par0211	Why? Why did he pick on you, Mr. Baluken?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0257par0212	Now, Mr. Secretary, he said that the number of arrested students and journalists given by orators speaking on behalf of our group is not correct.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0256par0213	So, he gave you your name?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0257par0214	So our group is under suspicion, so there's no explanation...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0256par0215	Here you go, two minutes, I promise, for bullying. Just don't give me any more trouble, please.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0257par0218	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, look, on January 31, 2012, Mr. Minister's response to the Manisa MP Free Special's motion to question: "In total 2,824 student prisons, 1,778 have been arrested and 1,046 have been convicted." The convicted students were convicted of the same substance. According to TCK 220/6, 609 of the prisoners were arrested on this basis. Now, to say that you've come from this 2,824 to 87, Mr. Secretary, what information do we trust? Oh, we know one thing: after arresting students, we know that these students were expelled from school as disciplinary measures, so we know that the student process was actually completed, and we have numerous names on it. If that's what you're referring to, it's also a matter of misleading the public. If the number of arrested students is 87, we've come here several times with motions for parliamentary research on arrested students, why do you object? Let's all seize this situation as Congress, investigate and give our people accurate information. On the other hand, Mr. Secretary has made some statements regarding the arrested journalists here. I mean, there's a painting that's so pink that it's probably meant to be in here. Look, according to the New York-based committee, the number of journalists in Turkey has reached a record level this year and is mostly related to terrorism and crimes against the state. As of December 1st, it does not say ί49ί, at least 49 journalists are currently in prison, which are mostly journalists accused of planning against Kurds and the government.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0258par0222	It doesn't say Kurtt, it doesn't say Kurtt.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0257par0223	There are statements saying that we are ahead of China, of Iran. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm just going to say to the president of CPJ that the fact that investigative journalism about disturbing issues is a crime is not only a violation of international law, it also means that the right of people around the world to collect independent information, publish and receive information. These are the correct information, Mr. Minister of Justice has given false information to our people and public here.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0259par0226	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0260par0227	Only there I looked at the report, not the Kurdish journalist. [[Continue]] [[Continue]] 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Justice Department Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association for Prisons 2013 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons Cut Central Management 2011 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey's Justice Academy Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2011 E) AGENTS AND AGENTS ARE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Labour and Social Security Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Ministry of Labor and Social Security Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The President of the Occupational Qualification Board for 2013 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Occupational Qualification Board for 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey and Middle East Amme Administration Institute Central Management Budget 2013 2) Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration Institute Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The State Staff President's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2011
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0261par0261	Levent Gök, Ankara MP who now wants to speak against him.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0262par0263	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. Jean Jacques Rousseau saw the days of the AKP's rule in the 1770s and described the AKP's power at that time, saying: "The law, the execution, the judiciary, the freedoms are not guaranteed, there is no constitution, whoever has the power is the judge." This is a government that trusts in its numerical majority to cover up, conceal, conceal, and conceal the rights and injustice that it has created, by filling the official state institutions, the judiciary that it needs to be independent, public supervision, institutions such as human rights. The state of the People's Control and Human Rights Association is pathetic. The government's appointed officers and institutions were born dead. Power escapes justice. In his mind, he thinks he's fooling his people and international organisations. Turkey's reputation is crawling all over the place. Those appointed to the Human Rights Association, Mr. Minister, were published on September 22, 2012 in the Official Gazette, but the institution did not hold any meetings and did not even choose its organs. The national mechanism for prevention of torture has not been established and the commitment to the United Nations has been completed on October 27, 2012. Neither the Turkish people nor the world believe that Turkey is governed by justice. This power is an unfair power. Montesquieu, when a regime becomes a non-believer of justice, it is condemned to the regime. Mr. President, we have seen once again how the right of the public to know the truth has been denied at a meeting yesterday regarding the oath of the government's appointed public auditors. During these discussions, we found that in an event that we now left to the public's conscience and carefully wanted to protect from political debates, some AKP MPs have yet to swallow the freedom of cameraman Cüneyt Ünal. It's hard to understand what kind of hard heart and ruthlessness that is. I would like to share with you and all of our citizens how the process of bringing journalist Cüneyt Ünalt from Syria began with the documents I will first explain in the presence of the Supreme Assembly. You'll be watching the weakness and insensitivity of power as an example. On August 20, 2012, the father and mother of cameraman Cüneyt, detained in Syria, first applied to the President. The petition you submitted to the presidency was sent to the State Department. The family then applied to the Prime Minister. In this letter, you will address the Prime Minister with the same appreciation that the greatest treasure of parents and children of God are the sons of God. For the sake of God's sake, we urge you to make an effort against our precious elder and show the proper interest in bringing our child back safely. Mr. President, members of parliament, I'm giving you an example of the answer given to the family by the Prime Minister in front of all Turkey, and the answer is this: Your paper on the matter you've stated in your application -- the life of your person is a document -- has been referred to the State Department and it is understood that you must apply to the National Intelligence Agency after response from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. My dear friends, look at the Prime Minister's response, the Prime Minister sent the petition to the State Department, and they said, "In response from there, apply to the Assistant Secretary of State." Of course, when that didn't pan out, the family applied to the Republican People's Party, and to save our citizens, four members of the Republican People's Party went to a country in an environment of conflict, taking every risk and bringing one of our citizens back to freedom, family, and country.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0263par0273	Which one of you is it? The name of Assad's palace...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0262par0275	We saved our journalist from Elin Syria, but we can't save journalists, MPs from persecution in our own country. My dear friends, we've gone, we've come, we've come, but know that we'll do the same for you, our hearts are open to all of you. We made a picture of happiness by bringing a citizen back to his family, his child, and his father. And I advise you to paint happiness, and I salute you with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0264par0279	Why didn't you bring the other journalist?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0265par0280	Thank you. Lawmakers will be asked and answered for 20 minutes. The MPs who entered the system were Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Illum, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Öz, Mr. Çınar, Mr. Türkoğlu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Öğbaba, Mr. Akar, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Demir, Mr. Belen, Mr. Çetin and Mr. Tuncel. In ten minutes... Mr. Erdogan, please.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0266par0285	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my first question to Mr. Justice Minister: Will you open the Dalaman and Ula courts, which you have closed in the district of Mugla? Are you going to lock up any more courthouses in the county of Mugla from now on? Will you set up a courthouse in Seydikemer, the district with the Metropolitan City Law? My second question to Mr. Minister of Labor: Until now, you have reconstructed several times the debts of our citizens of BUG-KUR, and granted them the right to be borrowed. However, do you plan to make it possible for our insured citizens to retire because they were insured at various times, who had reached retirement age, but were unable to retire because their bonus day wasn't enough?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0267par0288	Thank you. Dear Light.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0268par0290	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of Justice, in the last year, how much has the number of promissory checks and protesting bonds increased? How do you interpret this increase? Second, will you have a study aimed at removing the charges of eliminating the victims of our citizens who have been charged with violating their commitment? How do you view the matter? I'm asking the Minister of Labor, when will you be able to make the appointment of the job and occupational advisors waiting for the appointment? Two, on the scale of the work of temporary workers working for less than six months, under Act 5393, and the recruitment of workers working in village service units? And my last question is, when will you be able to end the victimization of subcontractors? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0269par0297	Thank you. Mr. Dibek.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0270par0299	Thank you, Mr. President. I have two questions for the Attorney General first. Minister, there are bailiffs we've served with in court for years, you know, they're in the assistant service class. Do you have any work on the general admission of bailiffs into the class of administrative services? Will you make an adjustment in the 4th package? That's what I'm asking you first. And there are a lot of journalists, scientists, writers in detention. How long do you allow them to use computers a week? Could you be more specific about that, please? I also have a question for Mr. Faruk Çelik. Minister, our citizens receive reports from relevant hospitals, including pensions, but the answers from institutions, institutions, institutions -- more accurately -- are often negative. Here's what I've come up with. I asked with a written question. Intentionally, the reports have been negatively answered, although people have lost their workforce by over 60 percent. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...responsive response from my organization. Is there any intention of that? I'm asking you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0271par0307	Thank you. Dear Varli.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0272par0309	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of Justice, the case, known as the assassination case against Mr. Bulent Arinc, has led to entry into the cosmic room. What's the current phase of this case? Who are the people who attempted the assassination? What cases have been filed against these people? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain that. Secondly, I'd appreciate it if you gave me the number of prisoners and prisoners in prison in 2003 for checks and other debts compared to the number of people in prison for the same crimes in 2012. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0273par0313	Thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0274par0315	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a question for the Attorney General. Mr. Secretary, do you have a job to meet the demands of state officials working under the General Directorate of Justice and Corrections, including the 657 State Officers Act, which is subject to administrative services, a status change in the public staff working under the Law of 657, an additional indicator to be used for their pension, a right to form a trade union, a chance to rise on a politic-based mission, to continue their weapons licenses after retirement? Another question is, do you think there's an arrangement for giving green passports to lawyers who have served ten years in the business? I also have a question for our Minister of Labor. Do you plan to pay an unemployment bonus, such as natural disasters and bankruptcy, which will sustain the BUG-KUR? Do you intend to pave the way for the BUG-KUR tradesman to take advantage of health care until the number of days is completed and the age is filled? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0275par0320	Thank you. Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0276par0322	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to Mr. Attorney General. On 15/06/2012, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, which you are chairman of, the Court of Justices and Prosecutors, has closed the Courts of Daday, Bozkurt, Abana and Çalzaytin in Kastamonu. Çatalzeytin is a municipality in the District of Türkeli, Sinop Province, Turkey. Objections to non-objective verdicts are also decided by the Sinop Boyabat Heavy Penal Court, which is 100km away. This is injustice and injustice to the people of the county both financially and spiritually. Do you intend to eliminate the victims of our districts Abana, Bozkurt, Çaltuzeytin, who live next door to each other in order to settle this injustice? Is there a forensics sample from these closed county courthouses from another county district? Are the savings and gains obtained by the decision to close are worth the loss of our citizens?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0275par0324	Thank you. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0277par0326	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister of Justice, the investigation into the KCK network, known as the extension of the PKK, has been completed and the indictment has been filed. Among the defendants are the terrorist leader, baby killer, who served his sentence in İmralı. The baby killer, however, is known to be the leader of the PKK, as well as the ACK. It is also clear from letters written by Imralı in his own handwriting by members of the MIT that the leader of the PKK was the bandit. That's... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's not over, sir...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0278par0331	I'll give it to you again... Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0279par0333	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll ask the Minister of Justice. All of the officers working for all ministries are part of the Law on Judgement of Officers 4483 and Other Admissions Officers, while none of the Justice Department's personnel are under Law 4483. Doesn't that violate the principle of equality? Question 2: Due to the flaws of judges, prosecutors, officers, other public officials, according to the fifth joke of Article 129 of the Constitution, 7 billion 452 million,370,000 in compensation has been paid by the state for their personal defects so far and has not been imposed on those responsible. In this case, isn't it the public harm that keeps the people in charge unscathed? What kind of work have you done to repair this damage before it gets any bigger? As it turns out, is there a share in the budget pen for these compensations that aren't imposed on those responsible? Isn't the ministry budget open with public damages? How do you come up with formulas to cover this gap when the budget is being made? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0280par0337	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0281par0339	I'd like to ask Mr. Justice Minister first. Do you have any social and economic work with the court staff, with the officers of the execution? Second question, Mr. Labour and Social Security Minister. Minister, have you ever been hungry? Have you ever had a day when you couldn't bring bread to your children? Have you ever been starved because you were too old to look for work? Have you ever been to live, then down the hill, and then hung out with a minister because of his age?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0282par0343	Thank you. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0283par0345	Thank you, Mr. President. I have three questions for Mr. Faruk Çelik. The first, as I mentioned earlier, is a major problem, especially with subcontractors working at the Ministry of Health and other institutions of the state. During the subcontractor exchange, I do not have any purchases from the previous company. A paper in the form of a subcontractor is signed. There are many other negative conditions. What kind of work does your ministry have on these workers? We've proposed a tip line, and I'm curious about your views, and I'm curious about what you're doing. In addition, a recent motion on children's matters revealed that six years of research on child labor had not been conducted, given by Minister of Family and Social Policy, Mr. Fatma Şahin. I'm sure you know. Does your ministry have any work or plans to do so? Finally, you know, dental technicians share the same fate as denim workers. Deaths are caused by silicone disease, and there are still those who are sick. You assigned an inspector at the last meeting about it. Is there any progress? Thank you. I'm curious about the latest situation.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0284par0350	Thank you. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0285par0352	Minister, do you intend to open the courts in Malatya? For the great injustice was done to Malatiah. Or do you intend to close any other courts, do you intend to do any other evil to Malatya? That's what I want to ask you. And, uh, do you think you're going to hire temps? How can a person who's worked for 24 years and has 2,200 days retire? Again, do you plan to employ temporary workers who work at the research hospital and other institutions in Malatya? I want to ask you when you're going to stop exploiting them. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0286par0356	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0287par0358	Thank you. Mr. President, I didn't think you'd be in the 14th place, so I'm sorry. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary that his retirement under nine thousand days is under law. Those who receive a partial pension by 5,400 days and 3,000 days have a minimum wage. A family of four can't even afford food costs alone. These people suffer very seriously. What's the lowest salary of these salaries, the minimum pension paid by the SGK? Do you think there's a legal arrangement for completing these at minimum wage under the principles of the social state?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0288par0361	Thank you. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0289par0363	Mr. Minister of Justice, what does the Prime Minister often say? It is our primary goal to protect and advance human rights, democracy and the rule of law. It says and continues, that the work we have established in this area is shown by Turkey's model country in the international community. And as Mr. Minister of Justice, as of today, Turkey has much more transparent, much more liberal legislation, but we have come a long way. In a report published by the World Justice Project, the success and distance in you and the Prime Minister's statements, 71st from 97 countries on the rule of law in Turkey, 68th in terms of accountability of the government, taking part in the 76°th place on basic rights; in the case of Tanzania, Ghana, Kenya, Liberia? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0288par0365	Mr. Turkoglu, please complete.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0290par0366	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Justice Minister, the investigation into the KCK network, known as the extension of the PKK, has been completed, the indictment has been filed, and the case is under way. Among the defendants of this trial, there is no terrorist leader baby killer who served his time in İmralı. The baby killer, however, is known to be the leader of the PKK, as well as the KCK. In addition, letters written by Imralı in his own handwriting and delivered by members of the MIT to Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorists indicate that the leader of the PKK was the bandit, where he ruled the organization. So why wasn't the baby killer brought into the indictment? Has a commitment been made to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) by your government? The laws of great poison were not included in this case in order to make it easier to forgive the murderer when the time came. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0291par0370	Thank you. Mr. Ministers, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0292par0372	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I want to say one sentence in a matter that Mr. Baluken put on the stand, which is that there are 2,824 students with the number of students in prison, after entering the prison, with our incentive, with the number of students from a remote education system and university students. 2.638 of these go to prison and then go to university through remote education. The number of people who were arrested directly as a university student has been 87. As of today, Mr. Baluken. Dear MPs, I begin with the question of Mr. Scholar Light. In the last year, how much is a bad check increase? And do you have a study to remove the pressure? There's been a slight increase in the amount of unrequited checks in the last year. However, we do feel that this increase was not caused by a change in the Czech Law. Both the Federal Reserve and the Treasury have the same view. The reason is that during this period, the amount of unrequited checks is parallel to the amount of increase in the protestive note and the amount of increase in non-returning loans. Based on the overall economic parameters, it is considered to be an increase from the tight monetary policy, and as of today, the unrequited amount of checks is below five per cent of pro-2009 free cheques. Other than that, Mr. Light, there is no study for the removal of pressure. The question of Mr. Dibek (Mr. Dibek) is: Do you have any work to do to move the chiefs to the general administrative service class? (As of today, changes to the rights of our staff are not subject to such a separate, separate study of self-responsibility for the editors. There's been an attempt before, but there's a team effort in the Prime Minister's office to coordinate all of this, and it's thought to be evaluated inside. In prisons, for the duration of computer use, every punishment can be changed in the execution institution, depending on the number of available computers and people who want to use it. In particular, we provide special facilities for journalists or for those who have prepared defences at this point, and there have been demands that have reached us, and we've provided special use for those who have received this request, and I'll share that. What happened to Mr. Varlı's investigation into the assassination of Mr. Arinc? My dear friends, there are written questions coming from you. We're asking the Ankara Chief Prosecutor's office, and the answer is, we may have friends coming in, we may have MPs who have the answers: there's a confidentiality order in the investigation and the investigation is ongoing. They say they can't share any information about it. Between 2002 and 2012, there was a question facing the number of arrested for promissory checks. As of today, no one's under arrest for pro bono checks, you know that, we've lifted the freedom-binding penalty, but if you want to compare it over the years, we'll evaluate them, we'll share them with you. Mr. Bulut: Is it considered to be an adjustment to the rights of the staff working in detention and detentions? • This is parallel to the question of Mr. Dibek. • A bill has come to Parliament to ensure that the external security of our prisons is again provided by the guards of the execution. As this bill is discussed, it can be assessed if a certain agreement can be reached with the Finance, with the government, and with the ministries that run finance policies. ▪ Is there any study in the profession that is aimed at applying green passports to lawyers who have spent ten years in the business? ▪ As of now, this is not just a matter of our initiative. The State Department needs to get some distances on this, too. It's not just a matter of the efforts of the Justice Department, our precious deputy. Mr. Çınar asked if there will be a new study on the removal of the courts and the sacrifices closed in Kastamonu. There are other questions to this, another one of ours. As of today...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0293par0382	It's from Mughla.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0292par0383	From the mugla, yes. As there is no study to close the new court, there is no study to open closed courts. Mr. Türkoğlu's case was filed, the indictment was filed, but in this indictment, he raised a question, "Imralı is there any particular meaning that he is not in this indictment, even though it is known that the prisoner in Imralı is the director of the CK?" As is known, the indictments are made by prosecutors. If a direct administration with the organisation had identified such a hierarchical structure, the prosecution should have included it in the indictment, but as a result, prosecutors are considering the indictments, not members. I'll answer the following questions in writing -- this is the end of the process. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0294par0387	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0295par0389	Sir, thank you. Prim configurations, as you know, have been performed several times. ▪ Asked if there is a new premium to be made or not. I'd like to point out that he's not on the agenda right now. There's an arrangement that we're moving to Parliament right now regarding the job and professional advisors that are waiting for the appointment. There is a dissolution of the employment contract of 817 business and occupational advisors after the decision of the prosecutor. They will continue their business contract, and the friends who make the case will be able to win this right, and 4,000 people with the basic staff will have jobs, and within a month these friends will be able to start the job.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0296par0392	Until when?
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0295par0393	The law is coming, it says within a month. The recruitment of workers, the recruitment of employees for less than four or six months, is not on our agenda right now. Two questions about subcontractors. As you know, there are serious problems with workers working alongside sub-employees in both compensation issues and working hours and annual leave and monthly leave of absences. We are currently conducting this draft work within the Ministry, continuing our work on the removal of these problems during this legislative period, the resolving of the problems of sub-employees. As you know, the sub-employees have cases that have ended in court, and I'd like to point out that they're on the agenda. The report on pensioners, as you know, is given from health care institutions, hospitals; this report comes to our institution, which is concluded by the board within the institution. If there is negativity, it can appeal to the High Health Council, and if there is no outcome there, the judiciary is open in that sense. If there is a personal situation, if it is a situation that you know but is inconclusive, we can assess if there is a problem despite the fact that the disability is more than 60 per cent. Do you also have a study of unemployment risk premiums? I'd like to point out that we don't have any work to do. Are you hungry? Thank God we didn't starve. We're displaying a sense of governance in Turkey that won't starve anyone, and I want to make it very clear. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I've said so many times about the age-consuming and similar approaches. Social security populists also lost politically, so they lost from every angle. Social security is an area where populism should not be done, and we had the support of the opposition to do this legal work, the arrangement. So...
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0297par0401	Mr. Secretary, find another solution, another solution. Open up! Open up! Open up!
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0295par0403	In Turkey -- I said -- there's no such thing, let me put it this way. In terms of child labor, the proportion of children working in six to seventeen years of age is 15.2 per cent in 1994; in 99 it dropped to 10.3 per cent; in 2006 it dropped to 5.9 per cent. We don't have a new number. TÜİK will announce these figures in 2013. There's a question about partial pensions, so let me close my presentation. SEC 645 TL, SEC agriculture 506 TL, BUG-KUR tradesman 441, BUG-KUR agriculture 363, Retirement Chest 1,084 minimum months, friends have expressed, they have asked. So that's how the numbers are. Adana, I'm also expressing to the concerned friend that we are currently continuing our preventive programme inspections for dental denture labs in Hatay Provinces. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0298par0408	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0299par0411	Sir, we need enough numbers for a meeting.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0298par0412	Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0299par0413	We want roll call, sir, enough for the meeting.
tbmm-2012-12-12sit05spe0298par0414	All right, I'll do a roll call. Yeah, there's a roll call. I'll take care of it. Now, I'm going to give you a separate vote on the parting of the budgets in the 4th round, respectively. I submit to your votes that the Justice Department's budget for 2013 will be transferred to its sectors, but there's a motion for roll call, and I'll do it. Mr. Tanal, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Akar, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Gök, Mr. Kesımoğlu, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Ören, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Özsümücı, Mr. Develi, Mr. Aksunger. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] [[Continue]] 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Justice Department Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association for Prisons 2013 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey's Justice Academy Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2011 E) AGENTS AND AGENTS ARE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Labour and Social Security Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Ministry of Labor and Social Security Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The President of the Occupational Qualification Board for 2013 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Occupational Qualification Board for 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey and Middle East Amme Administration Institute Central Management Budget 2013 2) Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration Institute Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The State Staff President's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Management budget of the Justice Department in 2013 will be transferred to its sections: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 1,230,957,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 1,370,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5,603,055,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 6,835,383,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Justice was adopted in 2013 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the Department of Justice's Central Management account of 2011 will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Justice Department Final Account for Central Management 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 5,089,054.239.00 Budget Expenses 5,079.365.269.12 The grant goes to 15,202,653,81 Canceled allowance 24.891.623.69 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of Justice was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes of Prisons will be transferred to the central management budget in 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.41) BUILDING BUILDINGS OF CONTROL WITH PRISON AND EXECUTIONS 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association for Prisons 2013 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 03 Public Order and Security Services 808,308,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 808.308,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 01 Taxes 4,724,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 81,163,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 701,405,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 20,855,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Profits 616,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Ret and Returns 455,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 808.308,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons were adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. I submit to your votes that the Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes of Prisons shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2011: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2011 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance is 1,313,677,000.00 Budget Expenses 1,196,356,616,26 Canceled Fund 117,320,383,74 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 746.727,000.00 Net Collection 1,289,627,761,01 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The detention and execution institutions and the Employment Homes of Prisons were adopted into parts of the central management account in 2011. I submit to your votes that the chairman of the Turkish Academy of Justice shall take part in the central management budget in 2013: those who agree... those who do not... are accepted. 40.10) THE ACTION OF TURKEY 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 03 Public Order and Security Services 14.767,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 14.767,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 561.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Influences With Donations and Aids 14.047,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 159.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 14.767,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The chairmanship of the Turkish Justice Academy was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. I submit to your votes that the President of Turkey's Justice Academy will be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2011: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Justice Academy Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 14.822.277.44 Budget Expenses 11.171.815.69 Canceled Fund 3.610.461.75 Payment transferred to the following year: 40,000.00 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 11.786,000.00 Net Collection 11.738.257.88 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The head of the Turkish Justice Academy was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2011. I submit to your votes that the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors shall take part in the central management budget of 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 23) AGENTS AND AGENTS BUILDING 1) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 03 Public Order and Security Services 50,859.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 50,859.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors was adopted in 2013 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors take part in the final account of central management in 2011: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 36,284,000.00 Budget Expenses 17.026.979.34 Canceled Fund 19,257,020,66 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors was adopted in 2011 as part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Labour and Social Security shall take part in the central management budget in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 18) WORKING AND SOCIAL PROTECTION 1) Labour and Social Security Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 56,895,600 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 23,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,474,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 395,342.050 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 360,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 31,659,317,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 32.113.411.650 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Labour and Social Security was adopted in 2013 as part of the central management budget. The Ministry of Labor and Social Security for your votes will take part in the central management account in 2011: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Labor and Social Security Final Account for Central Management 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance is 21,860.145,708.00 Budget Expenses 21.825.705.699.67 Cancelled Grant 34,440,008,33 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Labour and Social Security was adopted in 2011 as part of the final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the vocational qualifications of the 2013 central management budget be transferred to the chapters: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.50) GOVERNMENT PRODUCTION 1) Occupational Qualification Agency Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 6,700.100 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 2,428,900 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 9.129,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 494,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 8.959.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 9.453,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The vocational competence institution was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. I'd like to submit to your votes that the central management account of 2011 will be transferred to its chapters: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) Occupational Qualification institution 2011 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 7.865,000.00 Budget Expenses 3,470.699.06 Canceled Fund 4,394,300,94 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 8.605,000.00 Net Collection 3.334.316.64 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. In 2011, the institution of vocational competence was adopted into parts of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Institute for Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration will take part in the 2013 central management budget: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.07) ENGLISH AND ORTA EMPTY INSTITUTION 1) Turkey and Middle East Amme Administration Institute Central Management Budget 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 7.793,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 410,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 254,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 3,273,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 11.730.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,396,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 10,334,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 11.730.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration Institute adopted parts of the central management budget in 2013. I submit to your votes that the Turkish and Middle East Amme Administration Institute will take part in the final account of central management in 2011: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration Institute Final Account for Central Management 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 10.530.483.11 Budget Expenses 9.863.823,71 Cancelled Fund 664,885,28 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 1.774,12 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 8.998,000.00 Net Collection 9.472.161.86 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration Institute have been adopted into parts of its final account of central management in 2011. I'd like to submit to your votes that the state staff president will be transferred to the central management budget in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 18.75) DEVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT 1) The State Staff President's Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 17.160,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 7,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 17.167,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Departments of the central management budget were adopted in 2013. I submit to your votes that the state staff president's central management account of 2011 will be transferred into the sections of the final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 17.528,000.00 Budget Expenses 12,009,448,91 Canceled Fund 5.518.551.09 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The department of the central management account of 2011 has been approved. Thus, the budgets of central management budgets of the Ministry of Justice, Punishment and Execution Institutions, the Association for Business Homes of Prisons, the Justice Academy, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, the Institute for Professional Qualities, the Institute for Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration and the Government's Chief of Staff in 2013 were adopted, and the final accounts of central management in 2011. I wish them well. Congressmans, the fourth round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. Thursday (December 13th 2012) to discuss the budgets and precise accounts of the institutions, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
