tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 53rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Denizli MP Mehmet Yüksel, who wants to talk about the flood in Denizli province. Here you are, Mr. Ascendant.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0002par0009	Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, I have taken an off-the-book promise about the flood in Denizli province on January 7th. I hereby salute your high council. In the flood of extreme and severe rains in some of the districts and settlements of Denizli on January 7, 2012, there have been negative effects in transportation, crops and ostentatious areas, including our mayor, the agricultural organization, the State Special Administration, the Highways, the DSI, the Agriculture Reform. We, along with our fellow MPs, continued our contacts with institutions and organisations and contact with our districts. Of course, what's important here is that, look, after the flood on January 7th, today, a large percentage of our country is facing snowfall. After the snowfall, it also turned to frost because of the climate that found minus 28-30 degrees Celsius. Therefore, we have citizens who are trapped in the mountains, and we have citizens whose crops are frozen to death. I especially want to stress this point, my dear brothers: Over the years, governments have passed laws that will cover the losses of our farmers, which began from the 1948s, but were seen to be not enough, not enough, and then, with our Ministry and government's proposal, on June 21, 2005, the First Amendment of Agriculture Insurance Law, which we can call a revolution for our farmers in our Republic's history by the adoption of our Grand National Assembly, was cut off on June 21, 2005. Together with this Law, our farmers who have insured their product or animal have been able to save their products by paying 50 per cent of the policy price by the state. When we look at the definition of the natural disaster, the natural disaster is described as a natural disaster, the flood, the landslide, the extreme temperature changes, drought, the avalanche, storm, lightning, and so on. My dear brothers, farmers, and livestock -- they make all kinds of investments, but they don't show enough interest and interest in agricultural insurance, and due to the laws imposed on them, they can't get support if they're not insured. They can't take advantage of this in our province and in our country, because they're covered in floods, in the cases of frosts, if our citizens don't have insurance, they're suffering major losses. Especially now that our citizens are starting to produce new products in greenhousery, they're going to get a lot of damage if they don't get insurance. With TARSIM's agricultural insurance, especially 50 percent of the product's insurance costs are covered by the state, plus the immediate cost of the premium is not paid by the state, and the premium price is paid within a month after the harvest has been removed. Thus, even though such conveniences have been provided, still our farmers, our agricultural citizens, our livestock -- our citizens do not care for agricultural insurance or pay much attention to it. And then, together, we're all in trouble, we're all in harm's way. I'd like to announce from here that first, we'll have our own scholar Denizli, all of Turkey, all of our fellow lawmakers, all of our farmers: our product-owning citizens must have agricultural insurance. And from these natural disasters, these natural disasters that we can't help but feel that they're going to suffer.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0003par0018	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0002par0019	Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0003par0021	Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0004par0024	Thank you, Mr. President. And I offer my condolences to our citizens who have suffered a flood. I demand that the government take care of all the damage they suffered in the flood. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0005par0027	Thank you. The second word off the agenda belongs to Kahramanmarash MP Durdu Özbolat. Here you go, Mr. Ozbolat.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0006par0034	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-the-book commitment to nine of our citizens who have been buried in the coal basin of the Afshin-Elbistan Desertos. I salute you all. Dear friends, first of all, I'd like to take you back a year and inform you of the events that have taken place until today. The first collapse in the Afşin-Elbistan desertlolar coal basin occurred on Sunday (February 6, 2011) at around four o'clock on Sunday, where Yasar Alkaya, fifty-one, died. Four days after this incident, the second cave-in occurred on Thursday (February 10, 2011) at ten o'clock, a worker named Rushen Demir lost his life, geology engineer Halil Taşek, mining engineer Nail Yilmaz, workers Hadji Mehmet İpek, Musin Kosan, Kemal Diamond, Adnan Demir, Turan Gökhan, Aydoğan Polat and Friday Yıldırım were buried in the ground. Mr. President, I've been to Kahramanmarash as a member of the district, immediately to the scene of the investigation. Unfortunately, the scene I encountered was painful; within 150,000 square metres, 100 million cubic metres of land and coal suddenly filled a 40 - metre area. Immediately after the incident, a number of claims were made, as engineers did not perform their necessary feasibility studies, and some things were said, as they were trying to fill the cracks with stones and fill them so that they could fill the cracks in the mine. The most serious and most important of these allegations was this: coal was being removed from 190 metres in the mine that had been mined into the thermal plant A, and the depth of the drilling well was down to at least 190 meters. Notice here, dear MPs, I say at least 190 meters, because that's the depth that should be. You dig the ground, and with this coal, the underground waters come up, and you take advantage of the drilling well to get them out. The coal was being removed from 150-160 meters away at Station B, and for some reason, the drilling wells were 90 meters away, so there's a huge distance between 60 and 70 meters, and there's no way to figure out why it was done that way. However, considering the waters of Hurman Tea, which passed very close to the region, it is not difficult to understand that the disaster is taking place step by step. Hurman Tea in the area that was so close to the mine had to be kept from being put in concrete channels and the water mixing with the coal mine. And how were so many mistakes made in a row, members of lawmakers? Again, the state has moved up to a 50 per cent bonus to the private sector company that supplies coal to the Termic Plant of Devellos B by a certain time, according to claims. So whoever brought $10 worth of coal was given 15 liras. So the company that wanted to win bonuses was in violation of security. Fellow lawmakers, after the incident, as a member of parliament, I tried to run the legislatures of our Parliament, I started with a written question motion, and I didn't get a satisfactory answer. And then I filed a motion to open a congressional investigation, and as usual, she became a bitch. On October 12, 2011, with a motion again, I asked if there was any study of the exhumation of our subterranean citizens, and the answer came: the prevention of water entry into the mountains, the pursuit of stability of the field, the underground and the above-ground drainage work... nothing. As far as I can tell, the firm's officials are trying to get signatures from the families and relatives of our citizens who are buried in the ground to build a mausoleum for the region. So in Turkish, there will be no more search and rescue activity in the region. I ask Allah to be patient with those who are buried, and with their families. Mr. President, esteemed lawmakers must be prevented from mining open to the risk of an unsupervised and unregulated accident. Privatisations, subcontractorizations must be terminated immediately. The day-to-day work must be eliminated, with a long period of work, with a low price, with a minimum of profit, which does not take you to the center. In particular, workers' health and safety measures, which are not considered a cost factor in mining businesses, should be fully implemented. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let me finish my promise.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0007par0046	We're not prolonging it, Mr. Ozbolat. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0006par0048	Okay. I thank you all for giving me such an opportunity, with all due respect.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0007par0051	Mr. Dedeoglu, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0008par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to request the government's explanation for the immediate detection of the graves of our nine citizens at the Afşin-Elbistan thermal plant or for the burial of a mausoleum if it can't be removed from the ground. Again, my condolences to the families of our nine martyrs, Afshin-Elbia. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0009par0058	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri, who wants to talk about the latest developments in foreign policy. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0010par0064	Mr. President, I have received a promise off the agenda regarding the recent developments in foreign policy. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, Turkey's geopolitics are experiencing serious and dangerous developments. Iran has been threatened by the threat against its economic embargo. The United States and British fleets are on the move in the area. It's a mutual exercise attempt. All conditions for the Shii-Sunni conflict have been set in Iraq. Syria is a boiling gain. The Greek Cypriot government, on its own, displays signs of sovereignty in the Eastern Mediterranean. Israel is lying in wait. A spark can turn everything upside down in the area. Turkey has always been accustomed to being unprepared for events, so this time it's in the same manner. Unlike what has been propagandad in foreign policy, Turkey is becoming increasingly lonely and blocked in its geography. Today, in foreign policy, Turkey follows a strategy that is hostile to its neighbour, neighbouring to its enemy. More importantly, Turkey's foreign policy in the region has become a paralegal. It's a pendulum that goes from pride to redemption to hate love. One year later, Turkey's relations with countries that were declared friends and brothers a hundred percent a year ago turned into murderous, treacherous, hostile relationships. I would like to address these undefined and undefined tides of foreign policy in the presence of history and the Grand Assembly. I'd like to bring to your attention Turkey's political changes over a year. The year 2010, Turkey has construction services that have reached the volume of $30 billion with Libya. Libyan leader Gaddafi is on his way to Libya to receive a reward from the Prime Minister. The year 2011 sends the Turkish navy to the region to contribute to the bombing of Libya. In 2010, relations with Syria have been described as historic in opening up to Middle East and Islamic countries. Turkey and Syria are taking steps to remove the cold walls of history. The decision between the two countries to destroy minefields is being made. Turkey and Syria are moving like two nations, like a state. The year 2011 was the year when the Scout missiles were turned from Syria to Turkey and the Hawk missiles from Turkey to Syria. The year is 2010, Turkey and Iran have warm relations. On 14 April 2010, Brazilian Prime Minister Lula and Prime Minister Erdogan met in Washington, where a month later the nuclear trade agreement was signed in Tehran. The year 2011, Turkey decides to place the US missile shield against Iran as a result of its agreement with the United States, then with NATO. Thus, the 2010 nuclear exchange relationship becomes a nuclear threat relationship with Iran in 2011. The year 2010, the relations between the Maliki government and Turkey in Iraq are beyond perfect. In 2011, the government in neighbouring Turkey urged the United States not to coddle Iraqi Prime Minister Maliki. The American authorities have no alternative to this. Turkey is talking to Iraqi Prime Minister Maliki through the United States, and Iraqi Prime Minister Maliki is responding with arrogant threats from the kind of threat that Turkey would be harmful to, claiming that Turkey had interfered with Iraq's internal affairs. "Suriye is Turkey's internal business, and its promise is recorded as a statement from the Turkish Prime Minister. Now, imagine what happened in a year when Turkey reset relations with all the neighbors and turned them upside down? International relations are collusion, trial and error, not puzzle relationship, but international relations are also a question of consistency as well as a question of interest. The power in Turkey has shown the skill of turning almost all friends into enemies and enemies into friends within a year. I urge the government, the United States and the European Union, not to interfere in the region they see as a condition of an exit from the economic crisis, not to repair their relations with their neighbours as soon as possible, not to side with sects or interethnic conflicts.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0011par0074	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that a Parliamentary Research be opened under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution on the implementation and legislation of general information collection (GBT) operations. The GBT is the initials of the words General Information Gathering. Due to the GBT, which was known as tagging and its application until September 12th coup, it has been reported that recently GBT research will be conducted at airports, especially when the gendarme arbitraryly halts, calls, blocks DTP convoys, including lawmakers. When it comes to flight security, GBT will be asked. GBT, what are the rules, who keeps records, if the tag's been unplugged, what's the new tag, who writes for what? What are the criteria for colors such as red, orange, and green? What does it mean if it exists? Can a citizen apply for a copy of his receipt? Unfortunately, the 'fashion' is a very dangerous phenomenon in Turkey that has almost reached the point of conjecture. As of 1988 alone, it is estimated that there are 4,800,000 citizens whose lives have been affected by the GBT/General Information Gathering and so on, and according to this tagging information, 1,700,000 people are estimated to have been affected by security investigations. Public institutions are tagging their own citizens based on "so-called public authority." That's just one of the ways GBT is tagging. It's supposed to be legal... Apart from that, there are chips that other agencies claim to be legal. And there's an undisputed example of illegal tagging. West Work Group chips, 1. Army chips. Jitem receipts, MIT receipts, general intelligence receipts. In a democratic society, he plugs a citizen? What are these chips for? Who uses these chips, how? In Turkey, this GBT tag is done with a 'direction'. It's called the ECHR (Operation of Escapism, Intelligence, Information Collection) Information Collection Direction. The KİHBİ information collection directive has not been published. The citizen is unable to access a valid'regular administrative' processing/document in his country. The EU negotiating process reforms can't be effective either. The government does things in secret, doesn't give the citizens account or information. The fate of the citizen cannot be tied to the perception of the armband. Information on vehicles with wanted persons is saved to VEHI/GBT carototexes/databans. In addition, subjective notes are often processed by police officers who have no legal value. For example, even though a person has been acquitted of a political crime, the information of that person remains in possession of the CDI/GBT. They had no criminal investigations, not even about citizens who had not been prosecuted. " He is a member of his organization/organisms, he adopts the opinions..." Thousands of citizens are unfairly deprived of their freedom because their search records have been destroyed, despite their acquittal and non-obligatory decisions. The 90-99 articles of the new CMC, which took effect in 2005, do not authorize the arm. That authority belongs to the public prosecutors. The databases related to forensic information can only be kept by judicial institutions. Moreover, the state of Turkey has begun a massive judicial automation project under the name UYAP. This system, where all judicial information is being kept, is still under the control of the Department of Justice and lacks the law. There is a problem with the independence of the IYAP, the commitment to the judiciary, the legal arrangement. One of the aims of this system is that the police have access to all legal information by pressing a "touch" on all legal information, and it does not need to hold a separate database of forensic information. It is also a different matter if the application is contrary to the acquish of international rights and freedoms and the acquish of data recording/processing. It is useful to open a parliamentary study on GBT/exployment and to set up a commission, which has led to the violation of the most basic rights and freedoms of the citizen for the reasons we have explained. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly One of our country's major natural riches is coal production and trade, and we demand and demand that Parliament's Research be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the effects of irregular behaviors on coal-related legislation, to determine the effects of this on our economy, and to determine the sustainable measures to be taken. European Council members of the Council of Europe, who signed the "Special Law Convention Against Corruption" signed in Strasbourg on September 27, 2001 on behalf of the Republic of Turkey on 4 November 1999, were aware of the importance of international co-operation in the fight against corruption, of the fact that corruption is a serious threat to the rule of law, democracy and human rights, rights and social justice, and underlined economic development that endangers the proper and honest functioning of market economies, for individuals, state institutions and corporations. Although Turkey is a very rich country for coal sources, it cannot use its own resources. Although millions of reserves of coal are available in our province of Şırnak, it is not in the public interest. TKI is used for the benefit of individuals through the tender. This has brought up the tenders for coal-based coal-based coal thermal power plants that will lead to environmental disaster. From July 22, 2007 to March 29, 2009, coal was used as a means of election propaganda, the origins and quality of the distribution of coal were problematic, and the payments were not transparent. Although both of these separate imports will be conducted under two separate import permissions in the form of "Industrial Coal Imports" under the condition of the Use of Coal Importing and Industry, it appears that the local foreign importer-export firms have been operating illegally, even though the Department of Environmental Affairs has been conducted to investigate whether the quality value of coal is in accordance with the parameters specified by the Department of Environment. Between 2002 and 2007, the inspector's reviews failed to collect billions of administrative fines. Despite the legal procedures carried out by Customs Chief Inspectors on criminal proceedings referred to the judiciary, the importer company's stores and other assets, which are waiting to be sold, are derived from false Cargo Manifesto, which is actively aiding and abetting carriers, ships and vehicles are not confiscated, but are not sold, and the importers are not banned from moving coal imports and executives. There is no effective and deterrent action against Smuggling Customs from all the Coal Import Ports in Turkey with forged documents against the law. This type of coal, which does not have a standardized coal quality, is reflected in the media, which has been systematically sold to the Public Institutions and Institutions, as well as to the Special Sector at times the same price as billions of dollars of consistent corruption per year. It is a matter in which coal bags filled with coal samples have been brought to the importer company to be analysed and analyzed by the institution that has been brought to the "Calite Coal Analysis Reports," which have been imported by Customs Administrations, Russia and Ukraine, for what benefit, and the import of non-standard coals in the country, which are against Turkish Coal Standards, which are aimed at warming the state. Investigating reports of illegal coal imports filed by the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office of Customs has been reportedly referred to the Public Prosecutor's Office on the basis of investigations and investigations carried out by the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office of Customs. In the last seven years, it has been smuggled in illegally through illegal transactions, instead of heating coals, the Public Institutions and Corporations, as well as over 50 million non-standard industrial coals, which have been smuggled into the private sector and combined with billions of dollars in import coals, a fake coal analysis report, fake coal quality certificate, fake CIF. The government is seen to have suffered billions of losses, such as the cost of coal. All of these coals that have been poured into the dorms have been reportedly sold to Public Institutions and Institutions at prices of the usual wholesale sales value, and in the last seven years, the state has lost billions of dollars. For these reasons, a parliamentary investigation must be opened and a research commission is set up. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We ask and demand that a parliamentary inquiry be opened in accordance with Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, which are often discussed in our country, to investigate the problems in the field of music, cinema, theatre, literature, science, culture and art, and to carry out the necessary work on this matter. The rights of employees in all areas including music, cinema, theatre, literature, science, culture, art, copyrights, intellectual property rights, patents, commercial brands and the regime of trade secrets are being violated. As a result of advances in technical and IT, digital artifacts can be copied as requested. The copy from the copy is easily replicated, distributed, communicated in digital media, e-mailed with millions of mobile phones and a piece that is now subject to copyright is now mailed through the web to millions. At first, the music industry is damaged by its owners, and producers are no longer able to make an album. Yasar Kemal's, Orhan Pamuk's, Alif Shafah's works can be sold everywhere the next day as pirates. Films filmed in cinema field with a thousand labors and costs, Yilmaz South's "Travel" film, the screen's favorite series, are immediately on the counter with CD/DVDs. Sezen Aksu's "Gülmse" is Tarkan's "Sikým" Şiwan Perwer's "Xalepce," Zulfu Livaneli's "Freedom," Ahmet Kaya's "Diyarbakir Turk" on the MP3s. With the development of information and communication technologies, copyrights have been moved to the Internet. The recent increase in the use of electronic resources on the Internet has required control. This control must be provided, especially in a way that protects both the material and spiritual rights of the owners of the work. Studies on digital filigree and encryption and the prosecution of unfair use and providing effective protection against them are being blocked. The disadvantages developed by new intellectual technologies have been an advantage for those who benefit from these technologies. Copyright is the right of writers and artists to own their own works in the law. Copyright laws vary from country to country. In Turkey, copyright peoples are protected by the Law on Ideas and Arts (FSEK) No. 5846. This law is about works of science and literature (including computer programs), music, fine works of art and cinema. The problem of protecting copyright rights of works in the digital environment is that technology, such as encryption (encypription), "Metering" and digital signatures, provides its own solution to new regulations that support these methods on the legal ground in developed countries where the Internet is widely and intensively used. As the development of the Internet continued at a great speed all over the world, problems were not solved. The efforts of writers, artists, software designers, interested organisations, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism did not solve the problem. The password is to ban technology, such as the password, to overcome measures that prevent unauthorized access. The copyright holders of the online work, unauthorized access to their work, encryption (encryrption), etc. they can prevent it with techniques. Overcoming these protection barriers is a copyright violation. In such a violation, production, imports, and distribution of any means can be banned, and new regulations can be made. Service providers have potential responsibility. Internet service providers (ISS) can be responsible for companies that provide Internet access for users for wages. The copyright issue is global, and Turkey can discuss the solution with an international conference, which will be hosted by prominent artists, experts, organisations, and the composition world. Therefore, a Parliamentary Research Commission must be established. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Halaman, you have a request; your petition has already come and been processed. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0012par0128	Mr. President, thank you. Yesterday, as the MHP Group, in the General Assembly talks, I voted to accept the introduction of the law; he became a client, and my vote was rejected. I found it useful to present this to the General Assembly. I thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0013par0131	Thank you. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." Among the government of the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Kazakhstan, we will resume talks between the Government of Turkey and the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on October 22, 2009. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the 2nd ranked President Election Law Bill and the Constitutional Commission Report. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 138 rows. Members of parliament, this bill shall be considered under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, after negotiations on the entire bill have been agreed to be completed and passed on to its articles, it will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Adil Kurt, Hakkari MP who wants to speak on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the whole bill.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0014par0146	Mr. President, he's coming.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0013par0147	No Mr. Wolf. Faruk Bal, MP for the National Movement Party Group on the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0015par0150	Mr. President, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, we stand before you to announce our views on the President's Election Act. I salute the grand jury. My dear friends, the Constitution of 1961 was a constitution of reaction. The failure of this reaction was abundant to the people of the 61 Constitution, resulting in a second conflict. The Constitution of 1982 was a constitution of reaction. This constitution was also narrow, so the citizens' hands were tied against the state, their freedom zones were narrowed down, and a powerful power was created. Now, this matter of effect and reaction is a rule in physics. This law of physics means something in the discipline of physics, but the impact of social events and legal events can't be resolved within the rules required by a physical formula. Instead, the common mind should be looking for solutions to the problems that arise within its own discipline, in terms of social events and legal events, in terms of compromise, common ground rules we call common sense. While that was the truth, the constitutional amendment, which was the basis of the law on the election of the President in our presence, was a constitutional change. This was a response to a resolution regarding the cancellation of the Parliamentary decision on the Constitutional Court's presidential election, known as the 367 verdict. It was also a reaction to e-memory. (x) 138 S. The number of non-printers is included in the report. So the conclusion, as the 1961 Constitution has created a second conflict to be a source of influence, as it has created an unmanageable Turkey; just as the 1982 Constitution, as the Constitution's response constitution, has narrowed down the basic freedom areas of the citizen and instead created a powerful executive body, creating a powerful executive body, I think it has naturally become a currency of this constitutional amendment, and it has reached a critical point as the Constitution of 1961 and 1982. My dear friends, in the Constitution of 1982, the President was introduced according to the future President, Kenan Evren. He wanted to create a powerful President as a product of the coup d'état of September 12th. Therefore, the President has been given the highest powers. This prevented the parliamentary democratic order from disrupting the mechanisms of balance and control and from taking the President's election by parliament to a point that would at least make it very negative. Now, the election of the President by the people, who are so heavily equipped with powers, will also give the presidency a power with legitimacy and public support. Here are two basic problems when the legitimacy and power obtained by public support is assessed with the President's current powers. One of them is going to be a shootout. The conflict will take place between the head of the ruling party, which is responsible for the people and law in parliamentary democracy, and the person who is also Prime Minister and the person who will be elected President. This conflict will take place between the President, who, according to the Constitution, has no responsibility, who can answer only to the people for treason, who has no responsibility to answer to the people, who has no responsibility to answer to the law, whose business and procedures are not under judicial control, and who has to answer directly to the people and who are also responsible for the law as well as the work and procedures. Naturally, the winner of this conflict will be the President -- due to the inequality of weapons. The fact that the winner is President means that even though the head of the executive body is irresponsible, he will be the President with excessive authority. And as a natural result, the person in charge, but irresponsible, in sociology, is called dictatorship in law. So with this constitutional amendment, an authority but irresponsible presidency was created, so the dictator's name, the dictatorship, has been opened. My dear friends, the President, who is irresponsible to the public, irresponsible to the law, has custody over the judiciary according to our current Constitution, has custody over bureaucracy, has custody over politics, has custody over legislation, and has custody over the executive body. Given the field of irresponsibility of these custodys, if he uses it as a requirement of his over-designed office, which means that if he goes and tries to chair the Council of Ministers, it will be a dictatorship, in a precise and clear way. My dear friends, this parliamentary democracy will corrupt the genetics of this parliamentary democracy, it will take us from parliamentary democracy to a freaky presidential system, disrupt the balance and control mechanisms of parliamentary democracy, and lead to the rule of one person, the Constitutional amendment to the election of the president by the people, not only has its freaks about parliamentary democracy, but other things that can be described as strange and weird. One of them was that we changed the Constitution to Parliament, not us, but the Assembly of that time, so that we could be elected President by the people. According to this change, the beginning of this change was cancelled by the Constitutional Court, since there was not enough to meet at 367 points in the 22nd term of voting held in this parliament when Mr. Gul was a candidate for President. He was given e-mutations behind him, and as a reaction to both of these events, if you don't get him elected in this Parliament, then I'll go to the public and I'll be elected. So Mr. Gul knew that if this amendment was made for him, he would know that there was a constitutional amendment made for him. At the same time, Mr. Gul knew that the President's mandate was reduced from seven to five years, including this constitutional amendment, and he also knew that he had the right to be elected for the second time. While the process was going on like this, and in a strange way, the provisions for how to elect the 11th President were written on that constitutional amendment were wrong, but he returned from Baghdad, when the president vetoed it, he failed to submit it to the Constitutional referendum, so the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which launched it after the 2007 elections, then elected Mr. Gul for the Constitutional Amendment referendum in front of him and the Constitution. Now, the odds are that after the constitutional amendment has been made, we have now received a democratic Constitution of the ruling and influential members of the Justice and Development Party, and the President will be elected by the people, and the seven-year term has been reduced to five years. In that law, a temporary clause was introduced while the Constitutional Commission discussed the law, assuming that the term of the President was five plus five. With this interim clause, a temporary clause has been issued to indicate that the President's mandate -- the current President's term -- would be seven years. Here's the irony: this was discussed in the Constitutional Commission, where it should not be here with all the legal, moral values, but it was adopted as a temporary clause. With the adoption of this, the fingermatic democracy has become what it is: a strange situation, such as increasing the five and five years of the Constitutional presidency by law to seven years, such as replacing the Constitution with the law. Moreover, this means not only changing the Constitution, but also changing the will of the people by the law, because the Constitution was, as a result, presented to a public opinion, and the people's will, as of 58 per cent, accepted the President's mandate as five plus five because of the constitutional amendment. Now, what does it mean in democracy to try to change the will of the people with the law? That's what it means to be judged by the lawyers. According to the assessments, of course, there are some scientists who say that the President's term of office is seven years since the referendum took place. On the contrary, scientists such as Mr. Hikmet Sami Türk, Mr. Ergun Özbudun, Mr. Yilmaz Alienoglu, Mr. Honor Iba, Mr. Kemal Eyes and Mr. Sami Selçuk, who are arguing on the legal and scientific foundations of this work, have expressed that this law is contrary to the Constitution, not only to the Constitution, but against political ethics. My dear friends, another strange thing -- and I'd like to mention that because I think it might be more dangerous in the future -- is that the president, who is overly competent and irresponsible, is treated in a way as a person who needs help and charity. It is the highest state representative to represent the head of the state of the Republic of Turkey, who will maintain harmony between state bodies, and at the highest point that represents the unity of the nation, it is making the president a person in need of assistance and donations, and it is creating a polarisation and opposition among those who will help the President or not. What will happen to those who have not helped the President in this polarization and stubbornness, the people who have not contributed, the people who have not been elected president, the way they look at that President if he is elected? Is this acceptable to him as President, or where we're going to put the concern of using these overpowering powers against his own social community, social opinion, political opinion, when he's using his excessive powers as the president of people that his opponent has not helped, who his opponent hasn't helped, who his opponent has helped? My dear friends, of course there's nothing to discuss. There's only one name for this, and that's the kind of arrangement that looks innocent, such as the election to the presidency, such as the charity and fundraising of the candidate, is a gateway to an American presidential system or a French presidential system. My dear friends, this law is not merely a law that deals with a freak; it carries provisions which are against the Constitution, against social science, contrary to the will of the people, which have been passed against us, as a law against the will of the people. My dear friends, more than three-quarters of the law is a repeat of the known Constitutional provisions and the transfer of various substances in the electoral laws from here to there. Congress doesn't engage in absurdities. If there's any area where Congress is silent when they're making law, they're deliberately silent in that area. If Congress repeats a judgment when they're making the law, it's deliberately repeating it. If Congress puts the dot somewhere when they're making the law, it means that they're doing it knowingly, willingly, and by making sense of it. Now, in our legislation, there are provisions on the basis of elections. What are these provisions? These provisions: the voter uses the game himself. It's a known fact, it's the necessity of democracy, and it's in election legislation. Does it mean anything other than that the voter uses the vote himself to repeat it here? The voter uses the vote in secret. It's the necessity of democracy, the Constitution, it's in all of our election laws. Is there any other meaning besides the absurdity of having the vote written into this secret law that you're going to use? The voters' votes are considered clear. It's a requirement of democracy, and it's in all of our election laws, in our Constitution. If this isn't absurd, what's the point of it being written in this law? My dear friends, many of the same sentences of the Constitution, the same sentences of the election laws, have been referred to as the same sentences, and there have been references to different electoral laws, but there are also provisions that will be attributed to such laws, including the Law on Parliamentary Elections Law, the Law on Political Party Elections, the Law on Mahalli Governments, and the Law on Elections. Now, my dear friends, we have explained these things in more detail in the Constitutional Commission during the discussion of such a strange, unsubstantial law, such as the Constitutional will of so many peoples, and such a political moral code, but in the Constitutional Commission, by rejecting these views, the legality of opinions, morality and constitutional assessment of them has been rejected by the basis of the rule of fingers, which is that in Turkey is no longer the process of democratic legislation. This is where I think of the words of a dear member of our Assembly, Mr. Pestilence. Mr. Nicema is very, very quick to say that if the fingers were smart, the monsters who destroyed democracy would not have appeared. If the fingers were smart, the monsters that destroyed democracy wouldn't come out. If these laws are to be rationalized while they're being discussed -- I want to express them to my friends who are sitting at the ruling party's desk -- if we're going to be able to reflect on the fingers when we're discussing this bill, we'll eliminate a situation that matches reason, logic, law, political morality, and Constitutional Law, which has also been created by the will of the people to change the will of the people with fingers. I'm going to bring Turkey to the dictatorship with a freaky presidential system in the future, not bring our children into a process that won't vote for the President in the future, polarizes them in a way that doesn't help the President's election, and that Turkey can really be balanced, controlled, accountable to the people... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, can you give me an extension?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0016par0174	Thank you, no, we're not, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0015par0175	I offer these views to the High Council's appreciation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0016par0177	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the Fair Wolf, the Alliance MP...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0017par0179	Hakkari, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0016par0180	Hakkari MP, correcting.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0018par0181	Mr. President, God tells us, next time we'll be elected from Konya.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0016par0182	Mr. Kurt, you weren't here earlier, so... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0018par0184	Mr. President, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, I have made a pledge on the bill of the President's Choice Act. I salute you all. As you know, on 31 May 2007, a amendment in Turkey has limited the presidency's mandate to five years. The current president's entry into the election for another five years, plus another five. When the law was passed at that time, it was known that the law included the current President, and the clear message was this way. When that law was passed, the public would decide whether President Abdullah Gul would be President again for a second five years, with the ballot placed in front of the public this time five years later. The mandates of the MPs elected in the general elections, including Mr. Gül, have been limited, not to five years, but to four years. Four years later, in Turkey, the poll was placed before the public, and it was said: "We choose four years later, the parliamentary election period, the mandate is four years." This application must be applied to the President by the same law, which makes sense. But, if we put the rationality aside... because the AKP is not side by side, the AKP is side by side with interest, the AKP is side by side with the periodical balances because the AKP is approaching events, facts with a quantumistic logic; what the conjunctural balance is when you're doing your evaluations, the situation is taking a decision according to what the situation is, it's taking an approach. This bill that we're discussing today, or we're discussing, is a product of such quantumistic logic, a probabilityary logic. Is this product a good product? No. This product is a defective product. This law, this bill is ours. As a BDP group, it is not possible for us to approve, as a BDP block group. At every stage, we say that this practice should apply to Mr. Rose according to the Law, which came out in 2007. In fact, that's what the government thought by the end of 2009. The AKP government has this view until December 10, 2009, because it has a draft law that it has drawn up at the time. In that bill, it is clear that the President's term of office is five years, but is now going to change by adding a temporary clause: Mr. Gül's effort to increase his mandate to seven years. Is it legal or legal? Of course not. It means at least a year's share of 550 lawmakers who served in this parliament in the past period. If you limit lawmakers' mandates to four years, if you apply the law to lawmakers in this way, you must apply them to the President in the same way. If you don't apply it this way, you'll be providing a year's rights for past-term lawmakers. So you have to understand the logic of this temporary matter a little bit more deeply. Why is such a clause being brought before Parliament right now? Why is Mr. Gül's term of office increased to seven years, not five years, but five plus five? It is possible to understand the periodical, conjunctural approach of the AKP (AKP) from its perspective. AKP thinks: He has set strategic goals for himself, 2023 vision, which God does not give them, that those who advocate true democracy in Turkey in 2023 will be in power. Turkey will surely have the power of true Democrats in 2023, those who truly think this country will come. So, vision 2023, in Turkey, will be the vision of democracy in 2023, we're sure of it, but the conjunctural approach here, it's possible to read its trade approach in this way: Now, it needs a little more time to make the policy of permanence within the state a little bit more accelerated at this time, a little bit more involved in the areas of the state that can't be entered, a little bit more monopolized, a little bit more self-motivated, a little bit more communityist approaches. But to manage this process, the AKP has no chance of walking without Erdogan in the present situation, which is very clear, and they know it. Mr. Erdogan, in the ten-day period of illness, we have seen that AKP is not really a party. The crackling started, the multiplication started, and in the AKP, we didn't swear to anyone. Those who said, "We don't swear to anyone." Now, this is a non-cracking project, which is next temporary. How do they prevent it? In fact, the goal is that the Justice and Development Party's amendment to the Parliament's agenda today is that they say: "Let's extend Mr. Gül's mandate until summer 2014 -- part of the plan -- let Mr. Gul continue to be president until August 2014." But there are local elections in Turkey in spring 2014. The AKP's second goal is: In March or April 2014, it aims to put a double box in front of the public. Together with local elections and general elections, Mr. Erdogan strives to succeed as head of the district. One, they're setting this plan in motion. In March 2014 or April 2014, Erdogan plans general and local elections or early elections for the following: Erdogan thinks they don't have a chance to make a choice without it, this is the conjunctural account within them. Let's go to this election together, after the general and local elections in the spring of 2014, let Mr. Erdogan run for president this time. They're trying to hit two birds with the same stone. There's a duality within the AKP that begins in the present, and there's even a lot of faith. They can feel the crackling in themselves, they can see the grouping. These sacrifices are necessary to prevent this many heads. Victim one, Mr. Gul, don't let him go back to politics. We have seen it clearly and clearly in the Code of Deceiving. The veto of the Law of Stricts was nothing more than a test of its own power. Within the Justice and Development Party, groups have endeavored to measure their own forces with the veto of the Shikes Act. A message is here, Mr. Rose, that the Justice and Development Party has already drafted its liquidation plan. The Ali Genghis games they've been playing against the opposition so far, the AKP is now in the process of implementing them. It's one of the most important arguments of the era of mastery. Now we're dealing with a Justice and Development Party that runs these Ali Genghis games against him. There's an expression in public, and I don't want to use it here, but of course we're not going to come to terms with that. We've said over and over again that there's no longer a chance of this crackdown, this company coalition, that there's no longer a chance, that there's no need to repeat it. That's the way it's cracking, but I think it's possible that the people of Turkey didn't expect a AKP (AKP), which is trying to play Ali Genghis in its own way. Now, when we approve of this Presidential Election Bill, we actually put our own vision into Turkey's democratic constitution vision, our own approach. Now, if you enter a law that you made three years ago, in which a law that you passed three years ago could be destroyed three years later, that would also be a sign of your sincerity towards the laws you're going to make. The government's authorities have shown that they do not approve and do not have that kind of approach, but this law is, as a matter of fact, subject to person, unique to person. This is an indication that the Justice and Development Party has also taken a step back from the vision of a democratic constitution in the coming period, a prerequisite for wanting and not doing a democratic constitution. How is it possible to detect? He says: It is clear that he is already climbing this period every once in a while with violent policies, with illegality, with illegality, with the rise of lawlessness, with the policy of raising society, people, people, against one another, by applying the policy of suspension, isolation against one another, leading this process to an increasingly deadlocked path, the AKP government, but with its moves, the Parliament desires that someone be the scapegoat of this process. The AKP doesn't want this on its neck. We say it loud and clear. We want to express that Turkey's democratic constitution vision for the people of Turkey is as essential as bread and water and that we will push our resources, our resources to meet this need to the end, and that we will take this process to the end, but this picture, which is set before us, with this Bill of Law, is one of the expectations of the AKP government for three expectations, a tripartite, a step back from the constitution, democratic constitution vision. He's trying to signal that he won't do it. Because all efforts are to ensure that the AKP government, the AKP coalition, the AKP partnership, will continue for a while, for another period. ▪ How do we keep this company coalition going for one more period of time? So I told you in the first place, in a quantumistic approach, in a manipulative approach, the process, and the laws, when they're making laws, they're looking at it on this axis. The angle of all events is on this axis. All the laws he's passed, all the laws he's brought before the House, all the agendas he's brought before the Assembly, the AKP's priority, is his own. How do I keep him alive for another semester? How do I hide my own existence for a while longer? - How long can I keep him safe? He is fully accountable for it. Thus far, Ali Genghis, who has been playing against opposition parties against the opposition forces, has been working against him in his own way at this time. Now, there is a Justice and Development Party that deals with it. A Justice and Development Party, which struggles with its own opposition or different views, with different approaches, so we see here that the government no longer has a vision of providing democratic, permanent solutions to Turkey's problems, in the current situation. One goal, one effort, is how can we keep Mr. Erdogan in the prime minister's office and then move him to the presidency? The account book of Erdogan is being made. And this account book comes out when we've read about the developments over the last year. The Justice and Development Party, in fact, was convinced that by the beginning of 2010, the President's mandate was five years, that it would be implemented in this way, but today, the conjunctive has changed, the period has changed, the expectations, the demands of the public have changed, this time, the effort to step back from here, to differentiate it. Remember, you have to go back a month and a half before the President's term legislation is being made regarding the election of the President. What was discussed at Dolmabahçe Palace on May 4, 2007 was actually part of today's plan. You've put a product of the Erdogan-Grandanit meeting, the meeting that day, the Dolmabahce Palace meeting in front of us today. You're discussing that product. You're discussing that defective product. This defective approach will cost democracy in Turkey, and Turkey will lose the future of the peoples. We have to give up this game, this Ali Genghis game. If you really wish, Mr. Prime Minister, if he really wants to be president, put him in front of the people he thinks he is in August or September, let him run for President. No one objects to that. Let him run, let him win. You don't need to liquidate Abdullah Gul in this way, or you have no right to put the opposition struggle within yourself on Turkey's agenda. And if ye are wont to contend with your own souls, ye have your secret talks, and ye have your private counsels, wide and spacious. Sit there, work with each other as much as you want, and none of us will come to you and say, "Don't bother with each other." But don't make this crackdown, this crackdown, that's Turkey's agenda. Don't make this multi-header Turkey's agenda, it would be a waste to Turkey. We as a party believe that the President's mandate was five years in the past term, with the law approved by this Parliament. Mr. Gul's term of office expires in August 2012, and we believe Mr. Gül is entitled to run for reelection after August 2012. So we're going to evaluate this bill that you put in front of us today, and when we look at it from this frame, we're going to vote against it, we're not going to accept it, we're going to say this bill, and we're going to say again that this shouldn't be Turkey's agenda. You have no right to occupy Turkey's agenda with the presidential election for a year, with the President's mandate, Turkey has more urgent agendas, Turkey has more pressing issues, which the Parliament needs to discuss. But you, 1) Your own internal reckoning, 2) Give up the vision of the Democratic Constitution, 3) If you bring your liquidation policies, Ali Genghis, your games here in front of the House, in front of the people, thus making the reckoning of each other on the agenda in this Parliament, you have wronged Turkey, the peoples living in Turkey, the democratic dynamics living in Turkey. Thus, it is simply said that the bill, at least the temporary clause, is not legal, that this clause is approved and sent to the President for approval. It should not be the way or the way the Parliament prefers to impose a law on the president's term, a wrong done to him in such a manner as this in an illegal way. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're going to vote against this bill that we rephrased. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0019par0205	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, it's Alliance MP Attila Kart. Here you go, Mr. Card.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0020par0209	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a commitment to express the views of the Republican People's Party Group on the bill of 138 rows under discussion. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, we are faced with a bill to build the new Kenan universes and Central Asia-type democracy. We would like to share our concerns and criticisms with you in a concrete way. My dear friends, starting with the Constitution of 1924 in the Republic of Turkey, the presidential term has always been concretely, clearly, without hesitation. The wills governing the Republic of Turkey were based on the Constitution setting the mandate of the presidency, the highest office in the state. We're looking at the same approach that this Parliament showed during the 22nd Legislature. In the 22nd Legislature, Law No. 5678 on 31/05/2007 was also declared a constitutional sentence for the five-year term of the President and for his election no more than two times. The issue has been further concreteized by the emphasis of the 11th President of the 6th and 19th amendments of Law No. 5678. Despite warnings by the Republican People's Party Group and its commissioners that the referendum calendar and its obligation to implement the statement would not be put into place, despite their warnings in the May 4th 2007 minutes, the ruling political will insists. By the way, what's going on? On 28 August 2007, the 11th President is elected by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. What's going on with this? With Law 5697, the 18th and 19th articles in the 6th article of the Law of 31/05/2007, mentioned earlier, are removed from the text of matter. However, as the clause is removed from the text, the constitutional author does not reveal a will that the President's will for the term of office has changed -- that is, seven years in progress, and does not make any statement about it. We're looking at, again, the Constitution, you know, changes to the mandate of the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, changes to the mandates of members of the Constitutional Court have been made, regulations have been made, provisions that regulate the transition period. We're looking at both of these again -- not in recent history, not in distant history -- I'm talking about the 22nd term, the 23rd term -- in Article 94/3/3 of the Constitution, and again in Article 147/1 of the Constitution, we see these provisions being regulated. Well, why is it that the Parliament or the political ruling group, which has demonstrated its will in this regard in the Constitutional regulations just a year ago, does not need this sort of arrangement today, we need to question it, we need to evaluate it. This is, in fact, a very concrete development of political power, which governs Turkey, which is dominated by Turkey, which shows its joy and irresponsibleness in the issues of law, democracy and national will. Therefore, we make it very clear that since there is no statement of will in this direction, the interim Article 1, adopted by the Constitutional Commission, the interim Article 1, which regulates the President's mandate, does not have the Constitutional basis, valued MPs. It is clear that despite the fact that we are faced with a normative regulation in the face of implementation and existing meri legislation throughout the history of the republic, it is not necessary to do so. It is evident from developments in which political power has not resorted to this direction because of the critical threshold in Parliamentary arithmetic. In contrast to these basic and indispensable principles of the constitution and democracy, there is no way that understanding and implementation can be met with the concept of "democracy" and the concept of "democracy." Political power is sabotaging the constitutional system through machiavelist methods, machiavelist approaches and imposer understanding. We already state that a chaotic period will begin in the constitutional system, as there is no constitutional basis for all the transactions that Mr Abdullah Gul will establish after 28 August 2012. After that, all of the operations the president will establish will be discussed both politically and constitutionally. This will lead to further development of the process of dissolution and polarization that exists in society. The debate on the legitimacy of the presidency will continue to occupy our country's agenda, and more importantly, the precious MPs -- as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech -- are opening the way for the new Kenan universes, and the authoritarian structure in the Constitution of 1982 is transformed into Central Asia-type democracy. The current constitutional system is also freaked out in terms of technical and constitutional systemicity, valued lawmakers. If that's the case... You can do this, valuable lawmakers: you can choose the constitutional system as political power, you can choose the presidency, you can choose the presidency. This, of course, is also discussed, evaluated within the Constitution. But what do you have to do with this arrangement? In connection with the parliamentary system, the Prime Minister and the President need to build the balance of power, duty and responsibility. So, is there any sort of arrangement or change in this arrangement brought in? No, we see no such arrangement. Therefore, this arrangement does not fit the presidential system that exists in modern democracies, nor does it fit the presidential system, nor does it fit the parliamentary system. We're dealing with a freaky system, a freaky arrangement, as the President of the Constitutional Commission has agreed and confessed. This system has no example in democracy, this freaking system has no example in democracy. The regulations in countries such as Austria and Finland, mentioned by the Minister in the Commission talks, are not a precedent, my dear friends. Because in those countries, yes, in some countries, in very limited countries, the president can be elected by the public with the prime minister, but what does it do? Constitutional regulations governing the president's responsibility are being brought in. So what do we do? A president who comes with the People's Party, but who does not answer to the public, is a presidential office with no constitutional control mechanisms involved. It has no place in democracy, it has no place in the state of law, my dear friends. Here's what I'd like to say at the point where we're here: You know that Article 104 of the Constitution regulates the President's duties and powers. When the 5-member revolution committee, which did September 12th, organized the 104th article, the 7th President, Canaan, was on the basis of the Universe, intended to protect it. The main goal here was to provide the 7th President, Canaan, with broad powers, and not subject him to any legal and constitutional control in the other way, so that he could extend the antidemocratic structure of September 12 as far as possible, and that was the basic purpose of the arrangement there. What are we doing with this arrangement? We are taking this arrangement to protect the Kenan universes in the revolutionary logic and fiction of the commission's report. All academics with the mission of scientists have always expressed that such an arrangement is incompatible with democracy, that with authority, their responsibilities and control methods should be determined. Since September 12, 1980, all scientists of the right and left ideology, with intellectual integrity and consistency, have always expressed the truth of the Constitution. In fact, even this event, in its own right, demonstrates the demographic and disability of political power. With this arrangement brought into chronology, this antidemocratic structure created by the September 12th conflict has been fully and fully brought to the extent of revolution law with all its institutions. The AKP's ruling, which did not want to change the main law in December 12, 1980-6 December 1983, has once again been confirmed by this bill, which the AKP ruling, which wants to preserve them, has nothing to do with democracy and national will, is using democracy as a tool for antidemocratic purposes. Dear lawmakers, we know very well that what we're saying will come out of your ear, because for the past ten years, unfortunately, has shown us this, but in order to shed light on the future generations, we feel the need to express it in order to make a note of history, in order to shed light on history. Look what you're doing with this arrangement: you'll be building a state of party and police state construction, which has been established in the state of public office for ten years, and you'll be building a kind of Central Asia-type democracy, in addition to the establishment of constitutional hierarchy. So, on the one hand, you're creating a process that comes with a public vote and an election, which has very broad powers in the constitutional system, but is not subject to any constitutional control, which is not subject to any constitutional control, which, on the other hand, is running the country like a king, and on the other hand, comes with the election and serves at the highest level, and the constitutional powers are inescapable, and you're creating a fetish structure. In fact, it is the result of this process: an inescapable, unlikely and unpredictability of politics that leads Turkey to irresponsible and adventurous and predictive, completely personal and political conjunctural and calculated regulations, which are meant to be made, an inevitable result of the understanding of governance, a painting that is intended to be implemented. We're going to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Look, in addition to these general assessments, I would also like to say that the regulations of the commission report on Articles 11, 13 and 14 are against the general principles of the law, as well as the Constitutional law system. With this arrangement, we see individual arrangements being made. According to the legal technique, these regulations, which should be general, abstract, and inclusive, bring certain arrangements to the address. Article 11 is the basis of the resignation of public officials in the event of their candidacy. Okay, it's the right arrangement. So, why don't we add the Prime Minister to these public officials, why don't we add the President, why don't we add the Speaker, why don't we add the ministers? Prime Minister, Minister or Speaker, in the event that they're running, with that extraordinary state power, could there be a real healthy democratic race in the race they're going to enter? Wouldn't the use of that government influence, in itself, provide unfair gains through abuse of influence in behalf of those people? Won't it open the way for state opportunities to be used as a means of propaganda, my dear friends? Why are you afraid of a free race? Why do you want to stop it? You have to question them, you have to evaluate them, my dear friends. The other issue is that the presidential election, which will be created through funds created by anonymous capital groups, will be a problem in the constitutional system. Before the elections, the propaganda period doesn't control those financings. The important thing is to do the inspection at that time. Once the elections have been held, we'd like to say again that the audits will have no practical value after the results of the elections have been revealed. Because in this way, if this is not conducted before the elections, we are concerned that an unofficial structure will be born there for the propaganda of the President's election, for the financing structure. This, I'm afraid, will come as a reality of Turkey, my dear friends. Dear lawmakers, for the reasons we've explained, we're facing a commission report that is incompatible with the acquish of the Turkish Grand National Assembly Constitutional Commission, with its seriousness, with its sense of responsibility. We do not want to share in the historical responsibility and responsibility of such an arrangement, which is inevitable for Turkey's near future to create a fection. We see that we have a responsibility to warn political power in front of history and to inform the public in that sense. The criticism and concerns we voiced during the 22nd Legislature and at the Constitutional Commission meetings of May 4, 2007, unfortunately, have been largely implemented by lawless practices of AKP rulings. Degrees of democracy and law are completely destroyed by this bill. With this bill, the political government has wiped out all the accounting mechanisms that it should have given politically and constitutionally. Democracy and law are being evacuated. An ideological attack on the Republic's values and gains with such and such regulations has been placed under the highest protection. Even when making a constitution, the political power, which has a sense of politics that separates society, I have just expressed it, is creating new Kenan universes and building a Central Asian-type democracy on the one hand. There is a fact that recent political history reveals the fate of democracies. In the words of French public defender Vedal, I put it this way: "Democracy cannot live without political parties, but it can end because of political parties." The Republican People's Party will not allow the destruction of the values and gains of the Republic of Turkey with the construction of the party state and the community, and the institutionalisation of fascism at the highest level in Turkey. He will also do his historical mission to crown the Republic's values and gains with democracy, which he will do. We're expressing that determination here once again. I warn you once again not to create the new Kenan universes or build a Central Asian-type democracy, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0021par0233	Thank you, Mr. Card. Mustafa Şentop, İstanbul MP who has asked for the entire bill on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Sentop.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0022par0237	Mr. President, would you please read the person who wants a personal word? That's the Civil Code. Learn the application of the Civil Code once.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0023par0238	Dear President, dear members of our House, I have taken a pledge to express the opinion of the EC PARTY group regarding the presidential election law, and I salute you all. Dear friends, I'd like to remind you once again what we're discussing here. We're discussing the presidential election law. So why was this law set up, why did it come to us, to our agenda? A previous amendment in the Constitution states that the final joke of Article 102 is that the President's choice, the choice of the President, and the basis of the Constitution, can be arranged by law. So we are faced with a law prepared to fulfill the last joke of Article 102 of the Constitution. Our friends talked. There's, of course, a lot of big talk going on here. Central Asian-type democracy, historical responsibilities, fascism -- probably one of the most common words of this era. - In the name of God. So, what are we doing? Since the Parliamentary system has changed, the Constitutional amendment has already changed with the amendment of the 101st and 102th amendments of the Constitution since 31 October 2007. Are we just realizing this? Are we realizing that the new President will be elected by the public? No, no, if you're not a fan of this, do you think that this law, this system, can be replaced? In that sense, the debate here is actually general, always, everywhere, words that can be said. Details and legal information about the content of the law were not given here, nor were they given here. Dear friends, now, look, there's talk of a political debate, a political project. Some of our friends have expressed it here, and the commission has spoken more clearly. Look, the debate over the President's term is not only held among politicians, but among academics there are such discussions. In this regard, we can't just assume that there's an argument between politicians in the routine of daily politics. There is a split between academics and constitutional jurisprudence. Another friend said the arrangement for the election of the President by the public was a reactionary arrangement. It's a good idea to go into detail with a little reminder. Friends, the election of the President by the public was discussed at various times in Turkey, but remained at a theoretical level of discussion. In the early 2000s, it was brought up again, but it was not realized. The constitutional amendment to the election of the President by the public is related to the 367 decision of the Constitutional Court, which just emerged. You know, when the 10th President's term expires, the process of electing the President has been initiated according to the regulations of the Constitution, the 101st and 102nd Articles of the Constitution of 82. Parliament has taken action to elect the President, candidates have been appointed and held its first meeting, but then, you know, there's a statement published on the General Staff's website in those days, followed by the election process to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court made a decision based on the number of qualified meetings, not only in Turkey's history, but in the history of the world and an idea that is not in the constitutional literature. The number of qualified meetings is a concept that is not in literature. The Constitutional Court felt it was mandatory to find 367. For the election of the President to be held. This detail, I don't want to get into an argument, but with this decision, it has become clear that Parliament can't choose the President, or even choose the impossible. After that, Parliament has already decided to renew the elections and is going to the elections. If another system for the election of the President is not adopted, then there will be a new one, and the post-election Parliament will not be able to elect the President, so there is a chance that he will go to the election. With the Constitutional Court's comment on that, with the 367 comment, the possibility of parliament choosing the President had to be adopted a different way. It's not a reactionary arrangement, it's a practical necessity. In this regard, the Constitutional amendment adopted the election of the President by the public. It's not a reactionary arrangement, it's the first one. Second: Dear friends, the election of the President by the public is also important in our history. The presidential elections have always been controversial in our political history. In particular, there are those who remember the debates that took place after the election of the first President of the 61 Constitution after May 27, 1960. The late Ordinaryus, Professor Ali Fuat, has been nominated for the presidency of the Prime Minister, and he has been personally dismissed, not only by the threat of death, but also by a new coup threat, by the threat of intervention, by resigning from the presidency, and his candidacy has been reduced from this regard. Look at the presidents who were elected after him. One of the main reasons for the coup on September 12, 1980 was that Parliament failed to elect the President. Then, our friends expressed it, and I agree with him: the Constitution, in particular, prepared the presidency for the Kenan Universe, in accordance with the legislation prepared after the September 12, 1980 conflict, but the presidency prepared it because it thought that the office was to be a part of the bureaucratic oligarchy. As a matter of fact, the head of state of the era in public talks of the Constitution said: The main problem of the previous Constitution is that it is weak to operate. We're strengthening the execution. But there are two wings in the parliamentary system: a government -- elected -- and the presidential office. We don't strengthen the elected government because they're politicians, they've already brought the country to September 12th. We are strengthening the presidency. Why? Because it's not about politics, it's not about being chosen, it's about coming through bureaucratic oligarchy, whether it's soldiers or civilians. This fiction was constructed to some extent by this paradigm late Ozal move, but then the paradigm continued to exist again. But when, in April 2007, the new President was able to elect the Parliament of the period and the majority of Parliament was able to determine the President, then the paradigm reached its point of collapse. So, all the elements of the status quo, of the establishment, and they wanted to make that choice impossible. Of course, the process of electing the President by the public, in addition to the practical necessity I mentioned, comes as this theoretical issue. The election of the President by the public in Turkey is a very important step towards civilisation, the relocation of the democratic system, a huge gain. There's no way Turkey can go back from this. Dear friends, it is assumed that after the Constitutional Court's decision, the 11th President will be elected by the public after the Constitutional Court's decision, when the Constitutional Court has decided that the President will not be elected by Parliament when the amendment is being made. But with the July 22, 2007 elections, our beloved nation has created such a parliamentary structure because of its direct state of politics, that this Parliament structure shows that the President will be elected by Parliament. And I'm pleased to recall here the position of the National Movement Party, which I find correct, once again, in the commission. He has elected the Parliamentary President, but after the constitutional amendment has been made -- I don't enter into details -- the situation of the constitutional amendment being put into a referendum. The referendum will be held on October 21st. Thus, the outcome of the referendum had to be revealed for the constitutional amendment to take effect, even though it had been passed through Parliament. Thus, the 11th President was elected according to pre-constitutional amendment provisions, elected by Parliament. About two months after the president's election, the new amendment came into effect as a result of the referendum. It's useful to remind us of this process because we're looking at the Constitution, the President's term of office in the Constitution has been five years, so why are we discussing it? The temporary clause brought in is contrary to the Constitution. They make some evaluations, such as these. Of course, that's what it's all about when you look at it in a wholesale sense, but it's not like that when you go into detail. The President was elected on August 28, 2007. The Constitutional amendment to the election of the President was adopted on October 31, 2007. So there is a point here where a rule of law is applied to an event that precedes it. I'll get into those details in a minute. I'm expressing why there's no temporary matter here. Now, since the president's election of the 11th President was considered by the public, it was initially thought that there was no need for a transition clause in this regard because it was considered to be elected.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0024par0252	It's about time, time, temporary period! Tell them the truth and...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0023par0253	You'll understand, just a minute... But after choosing the Parliamentary President, the interim 18th and 19th amendments that organised the 11th President's election had lost the ability to apply, so they were to be removed from the Constitutional text that went to the referendum.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0025par0255	Edit this with the Constitution. Why don't you make a constitutional arrangement?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0023par0256	Now, here, dear friends, I will come, so I will come to you with the Constitution, whether or not the decision to pass should be carried out by the Constitution. Now, in that regard...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0025par0258	Tell us and we'll find out, so we don't know, we don't understand.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0023par0259	Mr. Attila, why don't you come talk to him? I mean, we listened to you. You're done, aren't you?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0026par0260	He's telling the truth, dear. Why are you getting angry?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0023par0261	Now, friends, these evaluations are not only for the chronology of the legal process, but for the exact meaning of the change.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0027par0262	Here, let us grasp it!
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0028par0263	So far, the Constitution has decided...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0023par0264	Now, the President's Election Code bill we brought in was discussed on the commission.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0028par0265	Is it five or not?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0023par0266	There are many articles of the law. Of course, some of these are in the Constitution, some of which are in the 101st and 102nd Articles. Well, that, of course, is the basis of the Constitution, there are details, details in the law.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0028par0267	Time detail?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0023par0268	The country is not governed by the constitution, it is governed by the law. Laws are texts that open and apply the fundamentals of the constitution. In this regard, it is wrong to make it look like a nakisa that some of the fundamentals in the constitution are involved in the law. We can see that when we look at a lot of laws. Now, there's a lot of issues here, details will be discussed, I'm talking about the general.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0029par0270	The issue of the duration is held in the Constitution, Mr. Sentop.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0023par0271	The issue we're talking about here is the matter of the interim clause, the issue of the 11th President's term, and I'd like to address a few issues about it.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0029par0272	You haven't answered our questions, Mr. Sentop.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0023par0273	Look, first of all, among the academics, there are those who say "seven," there are those who say "seven," there are those who say "seven," there are those who say "five," there are those who say "five," and there are those who say "five," and there are those who say "seven," and there are those who say "seven." You shouldn't think of all this as malicious, it's the law. There are three different opinions if there are two lawyers in one place. There may be different views of the two, and there may be three different views of the third one that copyright them.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0029par0274	That's not what we're talking about.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0023par0275	The important thing is that from a legal point of view of the views here, they've been presented in accordance with the rules of law and reason. Now, look, is there or is there not a Constitutional decree on the 11th President regarding the current President? There is a provision in the Constitution concerning the term of the President in general. When did this go into effect? A sentence in effect on October 31, 2007. The current President, the 11th President, was elected on August 28th, before the date of the execution, an earlier incident.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0030par0277	The law came first.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0023par0278	In this regard, there is no open sentence that regulates the current president's situation, and there is no general verdict, and there is no transition clause in the form of a temporary clause.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0031par0279	I understand, but let's discuss the constitutional arrangement, not the legal arrangement. Let's discuss this in the constitutional arrangement.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0032par0280	Can you tell me if the President's time is five or seven?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0023par0281	Mr. Attila, will you let me finish?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0031par0282	Go on, darling, who told you not to talk!
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0023par0283	I'm not saying anything to the guy in the back, he's already doing his thing.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0033par0284	He's already made a habit of it.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0034par0285	Tell me, did he eat five or what?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0023par0286	That's a shame! Should I answer to you or finish my speech? I invite you to follow me.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0033par0287	Teacher, people are listening! People don't listen to them, they listen to us!
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0023par0288	Friends, now, there is no regulation on the current President's tenure of the 11th President, but there is a general arrangement. The will of Parliament was mentioned. That's a lot of talk on the commission. Parliament, friends, has a will, was established in May. However, Parliament later changed its will twice: One, the will of the 11th President to be elected by the people in May 2007, but then on August 28th, Parliament chose the President himself and changed that will. Again, on October 14th, he changed his will once again by removing the temporary 18s and 19ths from the text. Therefore, it is wrong to view Parliament's will as a will once established. Therefore, an open sentence on the current President's mandate is not in the Constitution, not as a positive rule of law. Second of all, who's going to decide this rule here? So if there is no clear sentence in the Constitution about the current President's mandate, who is it that will clarify it? Parliament or another institution? Some friends said, "Let the YSK decide on this. When we look at the Constitution, when we look at the powers of the YSK, the YSK is responsible only for the execution and control of a decision-making election. Thus, it is not possible for the YSK to decide the start date of an election, but the authority in this matter is Parliament. And how will Parliament determine that? By what arrangement, by decision? Is it a law or a constitutional amendment? This is a matter for Parliament to decide. There are no provisions in our application or legislation for the regulation of the transition provisions with the Constitution. I'd like to express my own opinion of the time and leave your presence. Dear friends, for once, the mandate of the 11th President is seven years. When we discuss the provisions of the Constitution together before the change and after the change, it is easy to come to that conclusion. First of all, look, I'll point out that the sentence regarding the period in Article 101 was different. The 101st article did not say that the President would serve seven years before the change, or that his mandate would be seven years, or that he would be selected for a seven-year term. So there's a difference of expression here. We can say that assuming that the Constitutional Maker won't engage in absurdity. What I'm saying is that this statement shows a different legal conclusion. A general expression is five years. The mandate is five years. If the term had been seven years, we could have made these discussions very comfortable, but from rhetorical comment, as soon as he was elected, there is a statement in his person that privatizes the term of the President's term, which is chosen for a period of seven years.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0035par0293	Let's discuss them not in the law, but in the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0023par0294	First of all, I draw your attention to this rhetorical comment, that's one.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0036par0295	Let him appeal to the Constitutional Court, the President may apply.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0023par0296	Wait a minute... Second, the principle of the integrity of the norm.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0036par0298	Teacher, why are you preventing the President from being elected for the 2nd time? You didn't vote, is that why?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0023par0299	Friends, the Constitutional amendment has not only changed the President's time; it is a system change, in a package made with a constitutional amendment. Some friends have expressed that. What is it? It's chosen by Parliament, it's chosen for seven years, and it's chosen once; it's a package. The second package is chosen by the public, selected for a five-year period, and able to be re-elected.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0037par0300	Now that the public has chosen, so will the people every five years.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0023par0301	Under norm's integrity principle, there's a hesitation that the old system should be implemented because it's not just a change in terms of time. Look, the other thing about this is that the law doesn't walk backwards, and I just touched on it. Is a rule of law applied or not before the date of its execution? It's a matter of law enforcement. Maybe my friends can elaborate on that later. There's another important thing, it's very important, I have to mention it. Friends, in the parliamentary system, it is clear how the President will leave his post, how his mandate will end. Could be the end of the deadline, could be the death, could be the resignation, could be the disease that can't do its job. Parliamentary systems do not have an arrangement for the President's release. Parliaments have not been given the opportunity to dismiss the President, except for the matter of the Supreme Court. Now, to accept here that the President's term of office will be replaced by a later legal arrangement of a elected President, it means to adopt that the president may be indirectly dismissed by Parliament. Look, the President has been elected for seven years -- some friends are short, so I can understand it all, and I can tell it in a way that their minds can take -- we're cutting it down to five years. In Parliament, which has a majority to change the constitution, if it is uncomfortable with a president, it can reduce its five-year term to three years, indirectly discharge it, and this time, after choosing another President, it can bring it back to five years.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0038par0306	You can do so with the Constitution. Why don't you do it?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0039par0307	You'll do it with the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0038par0308	Is there a constitutional obstacle? He's giving up his right to be elected.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0040par0309	If we agree that legal regulations, constitutional amendments, will go backwards, we will open the way for the president to be dissociated indirectly. It's also very important in this regard. It's a matter of seven years. Guys, maybe we can discuss the details in the materials. In the name of my group and myself, I salute you all again.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit01spe0041par0312	Thank you, Mr. Sentop. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0041par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 53rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Talks were completed on behalf of groups over the bill of the President's Election Law and the entire Constitutional Commission Report. The first word for the individuals now belongs to İstanbul MP Ercan Cengiz. Mr. Genghis, come in.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0042par0005	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself regarding the President's Election Code bill. I salute you all. The Constitution of 5678 has changed the 101st Article of the Constitution, which regulates the President's qualifications and the 102nd Article of the election and opened the way for the President to be elected by the people's vote for a five-year period. Dear friends, first and foremost, the President's choice with the people's vote stands in the current Constitution. The choice of a public official, who does not have any operational power or function except to sign the laws, decrees and decisions of the Council of Ministers, to make direct appointments of some public officials, to approve some appointments, to be elected by the public vote of a president, is an odd event that has been introduced to the Constitution for some political reasons. Once, strange situations begin during the election. How are the candidates going to do election propaganda, what are they going to ask the public for votes? I'm a better representative of the state, I'll find better men and throw them at those missions. Or will they say, "I'm a great signer?" In the political atmosphere of a period, it is a smiley arrangement, which does not conform to the concept of the Constitution, which has not been properly calculated. Of course it's possible for the public to choose the president. For this reason, the parliamentary system will give up the parliamentary system, accept one of the semi-presidents or presidential systems, which may be elected by the President's people, by organizing tasks and powers, by determining the mandates of law, executive and judicial bodies in harmony. Such matters should be thought and done in fullness. The current situation may lead to conflict between a president and governments with different political ideas. A conflict and conflict between Parliament and the government will inevitably come to our attention, in the same way as an elected and irresponsible president who received his power directly from the public. It'll damage our parliamentary system, too. Fortunately, a new constitutional process is under way, and these apparent defects can be compensated. Dear friends, the issue here is whether the current President's term of office is five or seven years. First of all, I would like to say that my personal opinion and my personal opinion of the Republican People's Party Group that I belong to is that the current President's mandate is five years, in line with the Constitution. Why five years? For one thing, the Constitution has limited time to five years. The amendment was set to be seven years in the Constitution clause, and Mr. President was elected according to those provisions -- for seven years, not to tie the current President. Such a thought is a political approach, sir, that's what we want. It means it's also a pleasant approach to the subject. The rights criteria for political tasks are out of question. Missions such as the presidency, parliament, the ministry are not tasks that can be made to look like rights earned for individuals. You get elected and he does the job. The political mission you've been elected is not a earned right depending on who you are. Dear friends, the change in the presidential term is a change in public law and law. There can be no right in the matter of public law and law. The presidential term is about public law, and the presidency is not a right for anyone. At the same time, the presidency is a politically qualified task with the choice of an authority. Therefore, the President's mandate has been reduced to five years. The representatives of the people cannot increase the time to seven years by disregarding the will of the people who have the direct authority. It's also a warrant. The rights earned in law may be subject to the rights given to a person and are the subject of private law. Is the presidency a right to the person? Isn't that for the legislature, too? It is important to ask: If we change the Constitution today and reduce the parliamentary term to three years, can the current Parliament serve four years? We have to figure out the moral side of the business. Connecting the presidential term to the ex-constitutional clause, which has been abolished, is not in line with political morality. Then what were all these changes made for? Then why did Parliament's will limit time to five years? Well, the time would have been seven years. If we ignore the will that makes the law, both democracy and law will suffer. All political parties, except the AKP, whose group is in parliament, are united in five years. This is a matter that must be considered. Mr. President has basically not expressed his opinion on this issue, pointing out that his term of office is seven years. If this persists, the presidency will become controversial. However, if the Constitution had foreseen that the term of the current presidency was seven years, there would have been a temporary arrangement. The fact that this has been established without doing so for a net five-year period is a strict regulatory order for the current and future presidents of the Constitution. Dear friends, the presidential term must be constitutionally regulated in the face of implementation and existing meri legislation throughout the history of the republic. If there is a situation that will affect the period or cause allegedly ambiguity, it is also imperative that the arrangement to address this uncertainty be carried out on a constitutional level. Another issue: If the law states want to make changes in the current normative arrangement, it is necessary to establish this will at a level of equal value. In order to avoid interference with legal guarantees and stability, it is also necessary to obey this constitutional culture, as part of the principle of parallelity adopted in administrative law to prevent arbitraryness. The political power, due to the critical threshold in Parliament's arithmetic, seems to have chosen a legal arrangement for fear that the constitutional arrangement could be compromised. Dear friends, there is no more than five years in the Constitution for the presidency. It is against the Constitution to recommend seven years by this law. In spite of the current time, offering a longer time as an excuse for the earned right is a political attitude, personalizing the issue. Again, the presidency is a political public duty. There's no such thing as earned rights in public law and law. As it is known, the same constitutional amendment ruled that parliamentary elections should be held once every five years, not every four years, and the Turkish Grand National Assembly decided to go to the election four years after the 2007 election. This decision did not qualify as an early election decision. This is an exemplary practice. In recent years, Turkey has become so controversial that everything looks like a country that has settled, has no rules, has just become a new law state, is trying to build its democracy. We make it look like a tribal state with no rules in politics or law. Is there another country in the world that has everything to discuss? I don't think even the tribes have their own legal order. But today there are no rules in our country, which is almost a thousand-year-old state tradition and a century-old tradition of democracy, and everything is controversial. Do you know what this is? It's a state-run concept designed according to one's wishes. The head of state thinks and decides everything. The remaining state mechanism is to fulfill the wishes of the highest decision maker. That's all the legal chaos we've had today. According to political opinions, legal comments are being made. If that person had pointed out five years, I'm sure those who said seven years today would have been defending five years. So is the matter of the presidency that lies ahead. He decided when he was going to be President, timed it, arranged it, passed on his demands. That's the law that comes before us, it's nothing but the expected text. For these reasons, I signal that this arrangement violates the Constitution, morality, democratic rules, and declares that we are against it, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0043par0025	Thank you, Mr. Genghis. Now it's time for Justice Minister Sadullah Ergin. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0044par0029	Mr. President, I've been promised to explain the opinion of our government on the President's Election Act we're discussing. I salute the General Assembly. This arrangement, as you know, is an arrangement based on the mandate of the final joke of Article 102 of our Constitution. That was also expressed by some of the most valuable speakers before me. Dear lawmakers, there is a regulation in the 6th Amendment of our Constitution that emphasizes that sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally. In Article 8 of the article 8 of this article, the executive authority and its mandate were also ruled by the President and the Council of Ministers to be used and carried out in accordance with the Constitution and the law. In Article 104 of our Constitution, the President represented the Republic of Turkey and the Union of the Turkish Nation as the head of the state, and was given important tasks and powers concerning legislation, executive and judicial bodies in the same article, which were determined to observe the implementation of the Constitution and the regular and harmonised work of state bodies. In Article 105, the president's irresponsibility has been arranged. As for the presidential election, both the Constitution of 1961 and the Constitution of 1982 have an arrangement for the election of presidents by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This election system has led to deep political crises and locks in the presidential elections in the past. Parliament, for example, was unable to complete the President's election from April 1980 until September. This political lockdown has been cited in history as the biggest motive for the unwanted events and the coup of September 12, 1980. Similar problems even occurred during the 1961 Constitution. After the renewed parliamentary and Senate elections on 15 October 1961, the Republican People's Party was in the hands of the Democratic Party, which represented 173 MPs and 36 senators in parliament and the Senate, but was knocked down by the majority. A year and a half after the coup, the parliamentary presidential election was held, but prior to the election, the soldier's only candidate was Cemal Gürsel. In contrast, Professor Ali Fuat Başgil, who was elected senator independent of the Justice Party list, announced his candidacy. This development was unwanted by the junta. In the face of the new assembly structure, Cemal Gürsel was forced to be elected. The junta was then ordered to step in, and by means of two generals, to be rescinded from the candidacy by holding a gun to the head of the Prime Minister. Concerning that similar problems would take place before 1980, the 102nd amendment of the 1982 Constitution on the election of the President was assessed during the talks, suggesting that the President should be elected by the people. However, these motions for the president's election were not adopted at the time, citing established political traditions. Again, debates about the election of presidents by the public were held in 1946, but that was not the case at the time. I have shared these examples with you to express that these discussions have not been new, that these discussions have often been held in our political lives since 1946. Although similar problems were not the same before the 1980s, our former presidents had also been elected President of the late Ozal and Mr. Süleyman Demirel. What happened during the 2007 presidential election is still alive in all of our memories. I don't want to go into the details of 2007, because it's very new and it's still fresh in memory. This 2007 lockdown forced the issue to be given a radical and permanent solution. As a result of the popular vote of Law No. 31 May 2007 and 5678, our people changed the 101st and 102nd Articles of the Constitution by 69 per cent of the vote. Under this amendment, the president, the largest representative of the Republic of Turkey, has been elected by the public. A number of criticisms have been brought into the parliamentary system for the way the President was elected by the people, and these criticisms are being brought in today. As a first criticism, the election of the President by the public would not be compatible with the parliamentary system, but the election of the president by the public in parliamentary systems is not an unknown method, not a foreign method. It is known that in some European countries, such as Austria, Iceland, Ireland and Finland, heads of state, run by this system and cannot be doubted that they have a parliamentary system, have been elected. On the other hand, criticism that the President's powers are too high is being issued by a non-responsive President. These criticisms are actually the right criticism for the President of the 82 Constitution.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0045par0040	Then why don't you change it?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0044par0041	However, with the Constitutional amendment in 2007, it would not be right to suggest that these powers are too much for a public-elected President, since the presidents will be elected by the public from now on. But there is one thing that is expressed here, and that is, how will the responsibility of the President, who uses so much authority, be held in Article 105 of our Constitution? Dear friends, in the 2007 terms, of course, the developments that arose that day were a reflex of Parliament against sanctions against Parliament. This is actually the right criticism as a criticism, and the position of accountability of an official President should be organised in some way, but a major work by the Constitutional Compromise Commission working in our Parliament right now, and I think it would be helpful to evaluate this issue in the entire work.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0046par0043	It's not believable, Mr. Secretary, your alibi is not credible. We've been saying that for years, not today.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0044par0044	Dear lawmakers, on the other hand, it is a positive, forward, and decent step towards the election base, which is expanding the president's election base. In fact, we've had a lot of these discussions during arrangements in Parliament in 2007, so I feel compelled to repeat them and mention some of these criticisms because they've been voiced on this bench again today. It also opens the way for the president to have a more effective representational character. Choosing the president of our people will strengthen the public's belief in the legitimacy of the presidency, allow everyone's representation, providing psychological confidence and comfort in the nation. The president will have a crisis-resolving position that will take initiative if necessary in the functioning of the system with the power and authority he has received from the public. As a result, the President will take his place as the authority to be an element of balance and stability in our political life. At this point, it is also important to eliminate the potential to cause political crisis and locks in the system. Therefore, filling the office with a free election based on broad accession and direct representation will prevent many of the problems from unfolding. In the final joke of Article 102 of our Constitution, I stated that the decree of the presidential election would be carried out in accordance with the law. And the bill that we're discussing is all about fulfilling that commandary judgment. Dear friends, after being elected and taken into office under the Constitutional provisions of which he was elected during his election, different views of the mandate of the 11th President appeared and began to be debated after the adoption of Law 5678 into force in the public vote. The Law on Constitutional Change No. 5678 was written in action because of the process in which the 11th President would be elected by the public and was also under the Law on the interim 18 and 19th provisions on election-style provisions that allowed the 11th President to be elected by the people. Therefore, within the scope of these legislative activities, there was no such need or need for Law 5678 to be provided for the President's mandate. However, after the election of the 11th President by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the interim 18th and 19th Articles of Law No. 5678 were removed from our Constitution with Article 5697, dated 16 October 2007. This legislation has been taken to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court has ruled that it is not contrary to the Constitution. There is no hesitation in the principle of transitional law that the 11th President's mandate is set in the rule of law. The constitutional structure of the presidential office is essentially mandatory for the same result. On the contrary, by interfering with the mandate of the founding power or legislature, the process of destabilisation of this office opens. The Constitution, on the other hand, is a deterrent of attempts to affect the mandate of the current President of the legislature, except for the third clause of Article 105. While there is no hesitation in the legal science of the current President's mandate, it is constitutionally possible that some of the pauses expressed in conjunctural terms can be properly corrected by the will of the law. In the final joke of Article 102 of the Constitution, the procedures and foundations for the election of the presidency are regulated by the law. The ruling clearly points to that.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0047par0052	It's not the essence, it's the essence, it's the essence.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0044par0053	In this framework, the bill was sentenced to seven years of the mandate of the 11th President in an effort to provide non-religious certainty in a principle open to legal science and the rule of law, which was added to the interim clause during the Constitutional Commission talks. Dear friends, one of the critiques of the presidential election is the criticism of the Prime Minister and ministers who will run for office -- it was expressed during the commissions, as well as on the bench. As you know, as of today, except for three ministers, the Council of Ministers is in charge of the prime minister's post in case the elections are renewed, and the election laws have passed preventive provisions in order that the ministers and prime minister in office do not use this position in the election, which are also referred to in the preventive regulations. Therefore, there is no cause for concern, and the law has taken precautions. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, since the matter has been discussed enough, I'm not going to go into too much detail, but I'd like to express a few words about a few evaluations on this platform. A valuable member of parliament who gave a speech said that the regulation of the Constitution has been repeated in this text of the law, and that the lawmaker will not be involved in anything. He criticised the issue, stating that the issues held in Article 102 of the Constitution have also been significantly repeated in the Presidential Election Bill. In fact, in the normal hierarchy, the lower norm contains the upper norm's provisions. The law contains the frameworks of the constitution within itself, in its text; the regulations contain the issues set in the law in its text; and the regulations contain the regulations within it. In this sense, there are many examples of this in our existing laws. As you look at it, there are important regulations on the basics of the election in Article 68 of our Constitution. When you look at Article 11 of the Law on Political Parties, the provisions in the Constitution have been taken as one-on-one by election laws, the laws of political parties. Again, you can see the same examples in the Court of Appeals Act. It's possible to replicate this. This is a matter that has been implemented in the Turkish legal system, in the method of lawmaking. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I will no longer extend my words at this stage. The issue has been discussed in the process of constitutional construction in both the Commission phase and the past legislature; it has been discussed in the Constitutional Commission; it has been discussed in the General Assembly, it has been discussed in public. In efforts to renew the law this semester, again, there have been a lot of discussions in our Constitutional Commission, both in the upper commission and in the lower commission, and we are talking again today at the General Assembly. So, I think it's purposeful. I ask that this law work bring blessings to our country, our nation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0048par0062	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Idris Şahin, Chandırı MP. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0049par0066	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the President's Election Act, which is ranked 138. I salute our great nation and our beloved citizens who are watching us on their screens. Dear lawmakers have been stressed in the part of the Constitution (the Constitution) where the division of forces does not refer to the ranking of superiority among state bodies, it is the use of certain state powers and duties, and it has limited civil work and co-operation, and the rule is only in the Constitution and the law. In Article 6 of the Constitution, it has also been highlighted that sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally. In Article 104 of the Constitution, he stated that the President represents the Republic of Turkey and the unity of the Turkish nation as head of the state, and that the Constitution shall observe the implementation of the Constitution and the regular and harmonised work of state bodies. The 31/5/2007 date on the Amendment to some Articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey 5678 has been intended to establish the country's active participation in the process of enhancing the electoral base and establishing more democratic accession through the election of the President, who is the largest representative of the Republic of Turkey and the President of Turkey, and the Constitution of Turkey, which has been intended to take an impartial, party-top position. In the final joke of Article 102, the principle of the election of the presidency is regulated by law. As part of the final joke of Article 102 of the Constitution, the procedures and foundations for the presidential election have been brought to your attention by the Constitutional Commission and by the amendments and the interim clause added. I would like to make it very clear that the Law Bill Number 138 has come to your attention as a result of a thorough study. The draft and Commission Report and the presidential election, the qualifications to look for in candidates, the issue of assistance for candidates; procedures and foundations for pre-election, election day and post-election procedures are being organised. The First Amendment of Article 101 of the Constitution states that the President will be elected by the people. The people's choice will legitimize the President's actions. It will be a direct reflection of democracy, and with the power of the people, the President will become an element of stability and stability, which will use initiative, solve crises. With this arrangement, the President will gain a position above the parties. The system in the President's election has been completely changed by Article 101. The pre-changing President was elected by Parliament for a seven-year period of time, followed by the order that he would be elected by the people, whose mandate was five years, and that no one could be elected more than twice. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been brought to your attention by the final joke of Article 102 of the Constitution. First of all, this law must not be forgotten that it is a fundamental law. The debate over the entire law remains in the shadow of the President's regulation and debate on the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term, but the Commission, in particular, has long debated on the provisions of the 5th article, the dismissal and return of the Adays in Article 11 of Article 11 of Article 13 of Article 13 (Propaganda, Article 14). On the basis of the interim article 1, the President of the 11th President is subject to the pre-changing provisions of the Constitution, including the rule that they cannot be elected twice, which is seven years in the term of the 11th President, dated (31/5/2007), and the amendments to some Articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, number 5678, have been issued. First, we need to discuss whether such a judgment is needed or not. The problem must be resolved in accordance with the management theory and by the principles of administrative law. The Constitutional clause on the way the current President was elected and how many years he was elected has been changed in the tenth month of 2007. So, the President's mandate has been five years, and one person can be elected President at most twice. However, there is another crucial change in the different clause that is not only related to mandate or re-election, which is that the President will be elected by the public. Before the change, however, the president may be elected by the Parliament for seven years and only once. As it turns out, in the new Constitution, the President's term of office has been five years, but according to the norm in which the current President has been elected, his mandate is seven years. So, will the President serve seven years or five years? How will this problem be resolved? At this point, you have to look at the principles of management law. First of all, the principle of ruleliness applies in administrative law. In accordance with this principle, the content of legal matters is predetermined in administrative law. So, when a person enters a status, the content of the status is ready and not determined by the person. In terms of policy, the president must be chosen according to the rules set before he is elected President and have a mandate in accordance with the status set by these rules. The other principle that needs to be discussed is the principle of the law's ability to walk back into the past. According to this principle, a rule or abstract norm can only be used for situations after this rule or abstract norm is implemented. This is a very important and subprime of the rule of law. This principle provides legal security, legal predictability. Again, there is a status in the administrative law called the situation. In terms of the position, the current President was elected according to the constitutional principle prior to the 10th month of 2007, so he was elected to serve for seven years, all phases related to this election have been completed and the Parliamentary decision on the election has been published in the Official Gazette. It is against the principle of the situation and not in accordance with the sense of justice to say that the term of office will be reduced to five years after the seven-year election of a President. So it is not easy to say that the next rule can limit or eliminate the status created by the previous rule, but it also brings important legal and political dangers. It must not be forgotten that the parliamentary regime cannot be considered to be deprived of the separation of powers or the principle of balance of power. The rights and powers that the President and Parliament have mutually established cannot be undone by acting as Parliament wishes. In short, there can be no assessment of a possible dispute that could result in a suspension of the president's presidency by shortening his mandate. In this case, it is clear that the Constitutional rule, which does not bring any exceptions to the status of the current President, has the context of continuing its status at the time of the current President's election, which would be contrary to the principle of the Constitution. The conclusion, in light of the principles of governance and Constitutional law, is that there are seven years in the Constitution, which are in effect after the President's mandate has been elected. The five-year term in the new constitutional arrangement will apply to the President, who will be elected according to this new constitution. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has eliminated the uncertainty by putting a temporary clause in the President's Election Law Bill, thereby expressing its will here, and the High Election Council has only the mandate to organise the election calendar according to the date set by parliament. In democratic regimes, the last word must always be the House. With this arrangement, Congress has used that authority. I hope this issue will be resolved by the law that is being discussed, which will keep our nation's agenda busy for a long time. And before I leave your presence, I regret to inform you that I have not been able to witness a beautiful day in Çankırı. Our Çankırı municipality is starting 18 new projects in 18 months as of today. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I congratulate our president here and wish the projects to be good for our people and our nation.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0050par0080	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. According to Article 72 of the Civil Code, there is a motion to continue the talks: 138 s. I demand that all negotiations of the number-one bill continue according to Article 72. Talks must continue to ensure that lawmakers will learn more about an arrangement for the election of an important office such as the presidency. The motion is to vote... III-Y O K L A M A
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0051par0089	There's enough for a meeting...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0050par0090	Mr. Vural, Mr. Akşener, Mr. Bal, Mr. Oral, Mr. Korkmaz, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Illum, Mr. Türkoğlu, Mr. Halaçoglu, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Mr. Akar, Mr. Selfurk, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Special, Mr. Faruktutan. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. There will now be a 20-minute question-and-answer procedure. Mr. Aydın, Mr. Türkoğlu, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Halaçoglu, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Tützel and Mr. Erdoğan have entered the system. I'd like them to re-enter, please. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0052par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as it is known, the presidency's mandate has been changed to five plus five in the 2007 Constitution referendum. Now, is there any legal obstacle to Mr. Prime Minister running for President? Is it too long for the Justice and Development Party to have a ten-year term, five plus five, in case Mr. Gul is re-election? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0053par0106	Thank you. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0054par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Will those who have served as presidents again or will they be presidential candidates in the upcoming elections? What's the reason for this if they can't run? Wouldn't that be against human rights? And my second question is, there are people in our country who can't pay off about 1.5 million credit cards and have been pursued for execution. Is any legal arrangement made by the government regarding re-recognising and re-borrowing the situation of credit card debtors? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0055par0112	Thank you. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0056par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, when we started at the university at the faculty of political information, we were told about state systems. In this framework, we've learned about the form of government, such as the parliamentary system, the presidential system, the presidential system. Our system during the republic was the parliamentary system. In this system, parliament has issued a government of its own, and it has elected the President. Now, with this bill, the President will be elected by the public. To satisfy the curiosity of the teachers who graduated from law school, I ask: What is the name of this system where the president is elected by the people? Which one of the forms of governance that we've been taught? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0057par0118	Thank you. Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0058par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, with this interim clause placed in the President's Election Act, is the regulation on the adoption of the 11th President's mandate as seven years and not being able to run again, measures to remove obstacles to the presidential system on the way to the president's presidency or, as thought? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0059par0123	Thank you. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0060par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in the 2007 elections, the 23rd-century MPs were elected for five years, but in your statement after the referendum -- it's four years since your political party and the lawyers -- And after four years, there was an election. As a result, the president has also been elected for seven years. You say, "We are making this arrangement for him." Isn't the President's time reduced to five years? That's one. Secondly, it cannot be re-elected. By putting in the article, do you not rob the president of his democratic right to be re-elected? Don't you consider the rights of the 23rd-century MPs to be selected for a year? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0061par0129	Thank you. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0062par0131	Mr. President, it appears there's been a draft law in Parliament to resolve the conflict in the term of this President. Now the people will choose. It is called, but the draft bill here is also intended to vote for the candidates shown by the Assembly. Now, is this going to be called democracy? As a result, how much democracy is associated with an approach that calls to the Turkish nation, such as high education requirements, Turkish citizenship, when everyone should be running? It's the only administration the government has today that he wants with the majority of parliament. It's very clear that it's done to stay in power a little longer, but it also turns out to be a preparation to resolve the contradictions within its government party. It is not possible to accept this as a democratic arrangement.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0063par0134	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0064par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, why was it necessary for us to spend the Parliament's time in order to adjust by law, contrary to the Constitution, regarding the issues that are clearly stated in our Constitution, when there are a number of public rulers who have been victimised by the Law Code of 606? That's what we want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0065par0139	Thank you. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0066par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, it's possible that arrested MPs, like all lawmakers, are also presidential candidates. How are they going to run their campaign or what happens when they're elected? I'd like your opinion on these. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0067par0144	Thank you. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0068par0146	My question is for the Minister of National Education. Mr. Secretary, Ankara is training...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0067par0148	Mr. Turkkan, you can ask the Minister of Justice, who currently represents the government. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0068par0150	Sir, there's been a lot of talk in the press today. If you'll excuse me while I've seen the Minister, I'd like to cancel.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0067par0151	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0068par0152	Mr. Avni Richi, who served as secretary in Ankara's Education-One Unit No. 1 in Ankara, has been appointed branch manager despite being an educator for 11 years. It's two years less than the mandatory training you predicted. Is this a normal assignment or a staff assignment? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0067par0154	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0069par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll start with Mr. Light's question. The Constitutional amendment in 2007 organised our President's mandate as five plus five. With this change now made, he asked a question, "Is such an arrangement being made to open the way for the Prime Minister?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0070par0158	Is there an obstacle? It's already open, Mr. Secretary, so don't be wrong.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0069par0159	Mr. Light, this arrangement is not specific to a concrete event. I just tried to express it from the podium. During the Constitutional amendment in 2007, there was a Constitutional text prepared in front of us with the prediction that the people would elect the President after the general elections, but the interim 18 and 19th articles failed because the newly formed Parliament was able to elect the President by overcoming the 367 guarantor. So our Parliament removed the temporary 18 and 19 ▪ from the text that went to the referendum.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0071par0160	What's the difference between you and 360 freaks?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0069par0161	Thus, at the time of its execution, the package, which did not require such a decision, became in need of a judgment on these developments. In fact, in terms of status law, we have a president that Parliament has chosen for a seven-year period, which is undisputed, but you can't...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0071par0162	What happened to the MPs? Why did you take away our rights?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0069par0163	I'll get there, and I'll get there when it's my turn. Now, Parliament has chosen Mr. Gul for seven years and once. We think it should be assessed within the status of his choosing.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0072par0165	His status is with his powers.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0069par0166	The Constitutional Court has made decisions at this point. There are exemplary decisions made by the prosecutor. So, there's no arrangement here for the so-and-so person, Mr. Prime Minister, and so-and-so to come here. In the situation we face today, seven years is discussed in normal conditions.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0072par0167	Why didn't you put it in the bill when the Minister signed it?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0069par0168	It is not right for the High Election Board or other parties to conclude these discussions. Parliament's last word on this matter of its own in parliamentary systems was thought to be the most democratically appropriate.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0072par0169	Then why didn't you put it on the bill?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0069par0170	Such an arrangement has been brought in that regard. There is a second chapter in Mr. Light's question about Mr. Gül's ten - year service. No one has any doubts about it, it can't be a problem, but I've just expressed it, it's been selected for seven years and one time, according to the status law of Parliament when it elects the President. Therefore, it is necessary that he be nominated once. Mr. Right, there's a question of former presidents who might run for office again? He also has a question about credit cards, but since he's not my position, I don't want to make an opinion about something that I don't know the truth about, that I don't know the details. But with the interim clause, Mr. Right, it's been arranged in the bill that the previous presidents were not to run for office when they were supposed to be, Mr. Right. Mr. Türkoglu, the Parliamentary system was also running for president. That's what we've been taught in the principle of separation of forces in schools. He made an assessment. I also expressed in my speech on the stand, this arrangement, the country where the presidents are elected by the people, will not be the only Turkey. I counted the samples on the stand, and I don't want to go back. There are many countries ruled by the Parliamentary regime and elected by the president by the public, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Erdem said the seven years and no-responsibility arrangement was arranged for the election of the Prime Minister and transition to the presidential system? I think I answered that. The bill that we have brought in requires the order of the final joke of Article 102, and all of the regulations here are abstract norms. It's no one's special arrangement. Mr. Varlı said the MPs were elected for five years in the 2007 elections. After four years, however, we renewed the election in 2011. So why does the four-year deadline for lawmakers not fall to five years for the President?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0073par0176	No, you said it was five years, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0069par0177	Our esteemed lawmakers, after the 2007 arrangement, the 2011 elections were not a choice made by the Supreme Election Board's announcement of the election calendar. This Parliament, including today, can make an early election decision at any moment. The June 12th elections, held in 2011, were based on this Parliament's early election decision. Thus, it is not possible for us to set a precedent for the president's time. There is a second dimension to the question, "Don't we have a year's term for the 23rd century?" By parliament's decision, even though we have more than three years today, this Parliament may bring up the decision to renew the elections, provided it adheres to the restrictions in the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0074par0179	Five years for you?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0069par0180	Dear MPs, Mr. Corporate has a question: the candidates shown by the council will go before the public. How democratic is that? The public can't show its candidate. It was a question that meant it, if I'm not mistaken. Of course, when the constitutional amendment was made, it was envisioned that 20 MPs in parliament would come together and nominate. In addition, the parties, which amounted to 10 per cent of the vote they received in the last general election, can also run jointly. This arrangement is an arrangement that exists in our Constitution, not the issue of this law. Mr. Erdogan made an assessment as to why we are wasting time in this anti-constitutional arrangement when the problem of unregistered teachers is standing in the middle. Of course, everyone's opinion is self-respecting. In the last article of Article 102, the Constitution gave Parliament the authority to make arrangements on how to make such elections. As a matter of fact, it is under Parliament's jurisdiction and auspices to make this arrangement by temporary clause in the Election Act. It is this Parliament, where the public is represented and reflected in its view. We don't think there's a constitution here, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Kusoglu, the arrested MPs can also run if they're nominated. ▪ How will they build the camp? Of course, when they were nominated for MP here, these guys were under arrest and joined the campaign from where they were. At this point, judges will decide what the outcome of their nomination will be, not us, but the judges who are making the trial in which they are currently under trial. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0075par0187	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Varli, come in.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0076par0189	Thank you, Mr. President. The Minister's response to our question didn't apply once because he was then Mr. Toptan's Speaker, who is also a lawyer, who said that after the referendum, the parliamentary election was reduced to four years, and the presidential election should be every five years. Now, that's one. Secondly, how democratic would it be if someone were to leave tomorrow, if there was a law called the elected MP again. If there was a law, the elected mayor would not be elected again. Is this your idea of advanced democracy? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0077par0193	Thank you. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0078par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, the bill signed by the Minister in 2009 has no assessment of the seven years you mentioned today. So what has changed since 2009? So what happened? Why did you suddenly say seven years? By then it was five years. You signed in 2009, renovated on October 21st, five years. Now you're saying seven years. If that was true, why didn't you bring such a bill to the Council of Ministers? Now, everyone has the right to choose and choose. So you're banning someone. I want to know how far this outlaw mentality of yours is going to end up.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0079par0198	Thank you. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0080par0200	Mr. President, while our Minister of National Education is here, I'd like to ask you a question.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0079par0201	Mr. Gök, please ask the Minister of Justice about the matter.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0080par0202	But that's why I just got asked.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0079par0203	I made the same reminder. Ask the Minister of Justice.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0080par0205	Well, then our Minister will have the chance to get this information. He was tried and convicted on charges of defaming Ethhem Gürsu Ataturk, an elementary school inspector at the Iconian National Education Directorate. He was later appointed head of the Office of the Investigative Office of the Afyon National Education Directorate. Do you find it appropriate for a prisoner to be appointed to this office for insulting Ataturk? If you've heard of it now, do you intend to make any transactions? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0081par0208	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0082par0210	Yes, the second question that Mr. Varlı asked Mr. Toptan did four years and five years of evaluation on the grounds and resources of Mr. Toptan. Now, dear friends, there have been a lot of different assessments on this subject, it's true. We also have friends in the Republican People's Party Group who say it's been seven years and evaluate it, making different evaluations. Now, what we already think is that there's no need for such an arrangement in this bill because that's the way it is with status law, and that's the way it is with examples of the world. The Constitutional Court's proceedings are in place. The decisions regarding this matter are evident. The model practice in France is obvious, but isn't it, that there are so many speculations ahead of the election of a position like the presidency, in order to eliminate these speculations, and there is one issue that the Parliament owns? It's inappropriate for the High Election Board or any other body to make a decisive decision in parliamentary democracies. In that sense, such a temporary judgment was needed for the Election Law. Here I come to Mr. Vural's question, and in the bill with your signature on it in 2009, you hadn't written for a period of seven years, Mr. Vural, and we didn't write there for five years.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0083par0213	Five years, he says.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0082par0214	These are the terms of the new constitution in Article 102 of the Constitution. However, there is no prediction that a president elected by parliament for seven years would have a five-year term, and there is no evaluation.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0083par0215	Then why did you sign this in 2009?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0082par0216	There was no need for such an argument, and that was not discussed.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0083par0217	That was after the fraud law, after the veto.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0082par0218	But now that I've just said it, I think it should be brought to light by Parliament, who owns the issue again, given such intense debates. In that regard, I have also expressed my opinion that the addition to the Commission is in place. Regarding the question asked earlier, the Minister of the former Ministry of National Education sent a written note: The department of the department is held according to the exam of progress. This test is a central test. The one who doesn't win can't be appointed. Also, if he didn't take this test, it's done by proxy or by commission. The Minister doesn't make this assignment either. A note came. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0084par0221	That didn't answer our question.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0085par0222	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Last question, Mr. Right... Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0086par0225	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is, is it also considered that campaigns will gradually help presidential candidates with treasure? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0087par0228	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0088par0230	Mr. President, this is a subject that has been discussed a lot during the Commission's talks, especially during the last legislature. In fact, they had some discussions about how to help the treasure. At the end of the day, our Commission has agreed that there will be no financial aid and that this campaign will be carried out with the help of real people. Today, the Commission is still in the same position. It's predictable, too, but isn't it that our Commission came to that conclusion last semester, and the law was renewed through the same text as it was being renewed? I'm supplying, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0087par0232	Thank you. The question-answer process is complete. So the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 14th article. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Oktay Ozturk is a member of Erzurum MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0089par0241	Mr. President, Congressmans, I would like to present to you the views of the National Movement Party on the articles of the bill we're discussing. I salute you all. Mr. President, lawmakers, the bill of the presidential election bill that we're discussing is one of the original examples of self-indulgence of the ruling Justice and Development Party. For it is an act of the law that shall bring nothing but vain works to our council. As such, the 101st article of our Constitutional Article, which regulates the President's mandate, has been changed from 31 May 2007 to 5678 by the Constitutional Amendment Law, approved by the people's vote on 21 October 2007, and has been reduced from seven to five years. With this change, the second joke of Article 101 of the Constitution is laid out in the following way: the president's term of office is five years. A person can be elected President at most twice. The final article of Constitutional Amendment No. 5678 states: "This law shall be put into effect in the history of its publication and shall be voted in full if it is submitted to the public. " Because Law 5678 was submitted to a public vote on 21 October 2007, and the final results of the public vote were published by the Supreme Election Board on 31 October 2007 and on 26686. Therefore, Constitutional Amendment Law 5678 was adopted on 31 October 2007. The Constitutional Amendment Act 5678 did not include either a temporary ruling or a special arrangement regarding the President, who was elected by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey about two months before the adoption of Law 5678 on August 28, 2007. Mr. Secretary has referred to France. We'll see about that in a moment. The position you're sitting in is a very important office, Mr. Secretary, where you're obliged to inform people correctly.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0090par0247	Mr. Secretary is right.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0089par0248	Now we'll see the truth. The President's mandate was clearly reduced from seven to five years on October 31st 2007, as it took effect in the date of the change release. As it is known, the lawmaker does not want the law to be published on the day it is published, but later on, if he wishes it to be enforced or brings an exceptional arrangement, he must also and will have to make it clear in this law. Because the exception cannot be made by interpretation, so the exception should be brought not by the commentator or the enforcer, but by the lawmaker himself. Although there is an exception brought by the lawmaker in the middle, if there is any hesitation about the scope of this exception, this hesitation must be met with a narrow interpretation, because exceptions in the law are narrowly interpreted as a rule. Therefore, since Constitutional Change Act 5678 does not provide an exception to the mandate of the 11th President of the Republic of Turkey, the five-year statute of limitations must be applied to all presidents on duty or on duty at the time when this Law takes effect. There is nothing that will change the fact that President Abdullah Gul was elected on August 28, 2007, before the adoption of Law 5678. Which is an absolute and general rule, which is to be followed by the five-year rule. There's an example of France that's often expressed in this regard. Mr. Secretary just referred there as well. This has nothing to do with our situation. In France, the constitutional amendment to shortening the President's mandate has been made, while the parties have agreed and agreed that the amendment will not be applied to the current President. For this reason, although the President's mandate has been reduced from seven to five years, Chirac, who has served as president due to the agreement, has completed his seven-year term, and has even been able to run again for five years, according to the new arrangement. That's the example of political power. There is no sense in preventing those who served as presidents before Law 5678 from being selected for the second time with the draft. In other words, we see clearly in this example the habit of sculpting everything for itself, as though political power is a shoe cutter. Frankly, it's hard not to appreciate the Justice and Development Party's original sense of right and justice! If the late founding ruling had asked the current President not to impose a temporary clause on the current President of the presidency for five years, he would have made it clear that the five-year term rule would not be applied to the current President. As a matter of fact, there are examples of that in our law. The Constitutional Court members' mandate has been reduced to 12 years, but those who were in office and should have remained in office until they reached the age of sixty-five have been sentenced to an age. In the 2007 Constitutional Amendment, the mandate of the person who served as President at the time of the adoption of this Law is subject to the text of the 101st Amendment. If a similar rule had taken place, the mandate of Mr. Gül would have been seven years. In the draft, we are faced with an application that will not fit into any legal logic, such as shortening the time envisioned by the Constitution and the law. As we explained above, the President's term of office is five years, according to the second joke of the 101st Article of our Constitution. As we explained above, this sentence was carried out on October 31st, 2007. If there is an exception to this verdict, what needs to be done is to make a constitutional amendment. A constitutional decree can be made into exceptions through a constitutional amendment, but no exception can be made to a constitutional rule with the law. Such a law clearly violates the Constitution. If a constitutional decree can be changed by the law, then what's the point of the constitution's superiority? If a constitutional decree can be passed through a amendment, not through a constitutional amendment, what is the meaning of the binding of the constitution and the principle of the state of law in the final analysis? Clearly, political power provides a new theory of the hierarchy of norms for the world's legal literature. Every person who has studied the Constitutional Law knows that the rule of law of the country is enforced in a certain hierarchy and the constitution is at the top. It's called the rule of the constitution. And according to this rule, the law has to be constitutional, not constitutional. I believe that's how the President of the Constitutional Commission told his students about these matters. Because if the change was made by a constitutional amendment and not by a law, we wouldn't have anything to say. The draft of the President's Election Code is the draft bill, and yet another freak appears on the basis of the final joke of Article 67 of the Constitution. Even if such a law were to take effect, could it be applied in the election of the president in August of this year?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0091par0255	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0089par0256	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0091par0258	Mehmet Doğan Kubat is an Istanbul MP who wants to speak on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0092par0261	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express our views on the AK PARTI Group on Articles 1 (14) and Articles 1 (14) covering the first chapter of the President's Election Code, which is considered a fundamental law. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the rights to choose, choose, and engage in political activities, which are essential to a democratic administration, are held in the 67th article of our Constitution. The 67th article, in all elections, states the fundamental principles of the obligatory. According to this, elections are held under free, equal, secret, one-degree, general vote, open count and cast based on judicial management and control. Again, the Constitution has held a portion of the provisions for Turkey's Grand National Assembly elections in particular, and has left some provisions to the legislator, and they are regulated by law. In terms of the election of Mahalile governments, some of the provisions were included in the Constitution, while some of the other practical provisions were regulated by law. The bill that we are discussing today is the draft and basis of the presidential election according to the executive ruling prescribed in Article 102 of the Constitution. In Article 1 of the bill, the purpose and scope of the law has been determined, and the presidential election has been decided that the pre-election, election day and post-election procedures and the basis for the regulation of this law. Article 2 of Article 2 states the general principles that will be applied in the election. According to this, the President will be elected by the public. Elections -- in accordance with the basic principles of the 67th article I have just counted -- will be held in general, equal and secret votes, one-degreely in the entire dorm on the same day under judicial supervision and supervision, and the voter will use the vote with full freedom. This law, as part of a special law, has set some ground rules in its own area, just as it was in Article 2972 of the Mahalile Governments Selection Act and Law 2839, and in some other provisions, it has been referred specifically to Law 298, or Law of Elections. So here, in the non-organized issue of the Presidential Election Law, it is intended to prevent gaps that can be born by referring to some of the laws we count. Again, it is in accordance with the Constitutional Election Board's authority to conduct all honest procedures from the beginning of the election of Article 79 of the Supreme Election Board, as a result of its authority to finalize all objections and complaints before the election and after the election. Article 3 of the Law organises the election period of the presidential election, the start date of the election. The election period will be held every five years in accordance with 101 and 102, and one will be elected President at most twice. These provisions are also carried out in the Constitution. The start date of the presidential election is set in the second joke. The election will be completed within 60 days of the president's term. These 60 days, the previous 60 days, will also be considered the starting date of all election jobs and operations, and the YSK will implement the procedure on all elections by linking it to an election calendar, such as updating voter logs and so on. If the presidential office ejaculates in unusual ways, such as death, resignation, the next day following this ejaculation will be considered the start date of the election. In Article 4 of the Law, the selection system and application have been shown. The Constitution has not foreseen a specific electoral system in the elections of lawmakers, MPs and local governments, but has left its appreciation to the legislator, but has personally included in the majority system of the presidential election in the constitution. The election will be held according to the two-round majority system. In the first round, he will be selected as the only candidate to receive a majority of candidates. The second round will be continued with 2 candidates if the majority cannot be reached, and the majority, which received the most votes from the 2 candidates -- although the majority is perceived as a relatively large, is the only majority, which will be selected in the 2nd round. The vote will be held in the form of a referendum in case there is only one candidate for the second vote, and the current vote in the referendum will be voted in majority, and the candidate will be elected to the presidency. In the final joke of Article 4 of the 4th article, the presidency has been decided on how to carry out its presidential mandate until the newly elected President takes office. The president will continue his former mission until the new, elected, but in the event of death and resignation, the Speaker of Parliament will assume this power of attorney. If the president is involved with the party, he will be cut off from the election and if he has a position in the National Assembly, his position as a member of parliament will be terminated. So, we'll see, for example, a little later, if the political parties outside the parliament join together and nominate a political party's leader, or if a member of parliament is nominated as president of parliament, they will be cut off from their ties with the party if they are elected, and the title of parliament will be terminated. In Article 6 of the Law, the qualifying to be elected President has been arranged. In addition to the requirement that you are not 40 years old, you will also be asked to be elected as a member of the Constitution on Article 76 of the Constitution. In connection with the nomination, the MP will be nominated to the presidency through or outside the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, under the written proposal of 20 MPs, but the total number of votes left outside the parliament will also be possible to nominate, for example, three or four political parties, who have won more than 10 per cent in the latest parliamentary election. The person who is nominated has to have written consent. Candidate applications can be made directly to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey or to the Supreme Election Board. Some of the problems that may be found in candidate applications have been resolved in the 8th and sequel clauses. According to this, the conditions for electing candidates will be reviewed by the Supreme Election Board, the review candidates will be suspended temporarily, the objections to these suspended candidates will be filed within two days, and within three days, the Supreme Election Board will decide for sure, and the candidate lists will be finalised. As in the Parliamentary Election Law, the Supreme Election Board is also appointed here at the time-shortening point. The public and political party and a number of trade unions, public banks, etc. a special provision for the nomination of executive and audit board members of the top troops has been brought to the 11th article. This arrangement is essentially the same arrangement as the discharge of the Parliamentary Election Law on Article 18 of Article 18 of the Law. One difference here is that there is no prerequisite for resignation for their nomination, and if their candidacy is finalised, they will be cut off from their duties. Again, the 12th article has ruled that resignations will not be taken into account if there is a resignation, until after the election has been finalized. Article 13 regulates propaganda and refers to Law 298. Important arrangements have also been provided for candidates at the aid point. Only the real people of Turkish nationality can help an island as much as the gross salary of the highest civil servant. These benefits will also be under complete control under the foundations set by the Supreme Election Board. And that's very important in terms of transparency. I wish you all the best of the law, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0093par0279	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. Now on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Sırrı Sakık, Müsh MP. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0094par0282	Mr. President, dear friends, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party, I salute you all on behalf of my group. In the 2010 referendum, a decision was issued by the public, ▪ five plus five. On September 12th, the polls went to the polls, and the majority of the people approved the decision. Why are we bringing here today to discuss what we call the people's decision, which they approve of and what we call "referendum," and we really find it difficult to understand. As a party, we say that as a group, the people's will should be respected, the five plus five formulas must continue. Other opposition parties are at the same point, but you're trying to design politics in your own way. Now, prior to the 2007 elections, this Parliament elected a President, but something called the Garabeti (Greece of 376) was ignored by the people's will, and the presidency was ruled out. But after the 2007 elections -- we were in our election districts at that time -- there was something in the public that said, "They didn't get this elected because this President is Muslim." And in the villages we went to, if he had ten votes, they said, "We're asking you, ten votes are the votes of the Democratic Society Party, but if you don't mind, we'd like to vote for Abdullah Gül. He's been wronged, he understands our position, and we're going to vote for him. And they turn to us and say, "Mr. MPs, when you go to Parliament, take a stand against that 367. And we promised our people, we came together, we stood by the demands of our people. We walked in the footsteps of hope. A president has been a victim, but there are victims in this country, and we looked at it this way, in case he could lead the victims, solve the problem. Five plus seven, seven plus five is not important to us, but we respect the will of the people because we know very well that even if it's five plus five, even if it's seven plus five, there's not going to be a president from the opposition, Kurds, socialists, Alevis, Armenians, Greeks, Serbians. What is the desired quality? He's going to be a Turk, he's going to be Sunni, he's going to be above our heads, but he's going to be fair, he's going to be under the ideology that he came from, he's going to embrace all the people, but unfortunately at this point where we're here today, Mr. President couldn't lead the support of the victims at that time. In fact, Mr. President, if this law goes before him today, there's only one thing he can do, veto and stand up straight, and that's what my people gave me in August 2012, a five-year mission. But every president who will be elected president should really take a position above Parliament, clear himself of the ideology he came from, from the areas he came from, from the congregations, wherever he came from, because he has not been the only president to display this stance outside of the past, except the late Ozal. Every president who came was a militant of his own ideology, and he counted other peoples here, and he defended militant democracy against other peoples, and he stood behind him. Now, what matters to us is that in 2012, if we're really going to consider the will of the people, we need a president in this country who listens to the differences of the people and will lead them in every aspect of life. Whatever its name is, it should lead to these differences, but unfortunately, in all the accounts that we've done in the past to this day, we see that there is no such president. Now, let me put it this way: Look, Mr. Gul was saying here on this stand that good things are going to happen, different things are going to happen. But good things are going to happen. The Democratic Society Party, elected by the votes of the people in the country of the President, has been shut down, the parliamentary position of two MPs has been reduced. The 10 per cent dam, which is nowhere in the world, is still in the country of Mr. Abdullah Gul. People who talk about democracy, who say they're going to answer to September 12th, the Constitution of September 12th, but they're trying to create power through the Political Parties Act and the Election Law, which is the product of September 12th, and Mr. Gul here has mentioned a little bit, but we've all seen how an unjust trial continues. Now, you know what I've been saying? What do we have against our opponents? In this country, it's only death, it's only arrest, it's just a rule of absence. Yesterday was the last day of Hrant's trial, and Hrant was murdered again on January 17th, because Hrant was a different color of this country, but the court's decision was a decision that killed Hrant several times. What's he saying? There's no organization. Well, it says it's a legitimate case. Hrant, for God's sake, was he a chestnut merchant, Hrant a timber merchant, a contractor, and three killers came in and shot Hrant in the back of the neck with three bullets. The address of these three bullets was clear, as its message was clear, because three bullets had been fired on Talat, the same bullets had been fired on Hrant, and Hrant, his grandfathers were killed in the same way, and Hrant... was presented to the public yesterday by the court order that this was not an organised incident. Now, I want to ask you: look, there's the Governor, there's the Chief of Police, there's the Chief of Police, there's the Police, there's a police officer, there's a murder ring organized by the state, and the courts are still saying, there's a criminal case here. Opposers are either executed in the middle of the street or handcuffed. Here are two opponents. One of them is Hrant Dink and one of them is Uður Kaymaz. Hrant Dink was shot to death in the heart of Istanbul, and behind this bullet are the government's footprints and fingerprints on the trigger. This is Uður Kaymaz in Kızıltepe, a 13-year-old boy who was killed by 13 bullets in his body. It's that justice you call justice, that judgment, this killer, he cleared the killers, and they didn't get a day's punishment. Here's a dozen of them, hundreds of them, we can count on you. You can't make peace in a country without justice and law. You're cruel to your opponents. I told you yesterday, and I'm telling you today, you were yesterday's victims, but today for the differences, for the other victims, each of you became a tyrant from your institutions, from your Parliament. Do some accounting and take part in these victims. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0095par0292	The Republican People's Party Group has asked for a statement from Reza Mahmut Turmen, İzmir MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Turmen, we're combining your time. There's also a request on your behalf, so 15 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Specten.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0096par0296	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, you've certainly noticed what a strange meeting this meeting is, what a strange meeting this meeting is. We have a president, no one knows what his time is; he doesn't know it, and neither does the public. He'd be surprised if you told anyone outside of Turkey, because they're undetermined kings, not presidents, and he's a bit of a foreign observer who understands law. So why didn't you solve this problem when the President was elected? I don't know the answer to that, but weirdness doesn't end here. This presidential issue contains such a series of oddities. You can also say these strange things in a way that is inappropriate to the law. These odds, these legal odds... my friends from the Justice and Development Party will, of course, start with the Supreme Court's 367 verdicts. Okay, but that doesn't justify the weirdness and the weirdness of the law after that. What happened after that? After that, it was: There were provisions regarding the 11th President in Law 5678, dated May 31, 2007. On 16 October 2007, the Turkish Grand National Assembly passed a law establishing the provisions for the 11th President -- the interim 18th, 19th article -- which he removed, but when he did, the voting process had already begun at the customs gates. I mean, what happened? Citizens voting at customs doors voted for a text, citizens who didn't vote at customs doors voted for another text. Now, have you seen any legal weirdness like that? He'd be surprised if you told that third person abroad, how does that happen? And it wasn't enough, but then the October 21st referendum came. On the other hand, the October 16th amendment was in effect without a public vote. So, this amendment, the October 16th amendment, the provisions for the President, the constitutional text that he took as a basis for the amendment to the 11th President, was finalised, even though it was not approved, came into effect, which revealed another weirdness. Now we continue this series of legal oddities. There are two oddities here, two problems with the law. One is, should this arrangement be made with the Constitution, or should it be done with the law? That's problem number one. I listened carefully to the Minister's speech, Mr. Secretary, as if he had always given such an impression that we are opposed to the election of the President by the public, that there seems to be some hesitation. That's not our problem. That's not our issue, that's how it's gonna be. That's the first thing. Now, all the arrangements for the President, but all the arrangements were made with the Constitution, the Constitutional Amendment. Now we want to do it with the law. It's a problem once in a while. So, the changes made in 2007 and the changes after that were all made with the Constitution, sir. Now we'd like to bring in an arrangement with the law on the President. However, it is important for the presidency to have regulations with the Constitution. And then, it's said, in the Minister's speech, there was also this: there's a uncertainty. There's really no uncertainty, so everything is very specific, but there's a uncertainty. ▪ But where does the uncertainty come from? The uncertainty stems from the Constitution. Now we're drafting a law to eliminate a uncertainty stemming from the Constitution, which is another weird thing. And it doesn't end with that. There's a 102. Mr. Minister said: "The procedure and the basis for the election of the presidency in the last article of ▪102 is based on the law." You're looking at this law based on this last joke. You're looking at the 102, the subject of the resumption of the selection, it's not about anything else. So when you read Article 102, you see how the presidential election will be made, what to do before the election, what to do during the election, what to do after the election, what to do, what to do. But the presidential term isn't held in Article 102, that's another matter. The procedure and the basis for the election of the presidency are regulated by law, he says. Now, based on this, the regulation of the term of the presidency is something that is not originally foreseen in this Constitution, which has been poured into the 102, which doesn't fit in here, something that doesn't fit in here. And, of course, there's a problem here. If it were said that we are not doing it with the law, we are doing it with the Constitution. Then at least that would be a proper arrangement in terms of procedure, but it's not called that. Now, the issue here, the President, of course, was chosen according to the previous arrangement, according to the current regulation in the Constitution, but the whole issue was decided for seven years, after the referendum was held and after the five plus five basis was accepted in the referendum, this arrangement was eliminated, of course, and the five and five amendments adopted in that referendum were replaced and applied to the President. There shouldn't be any hesitation in that, I'm not quite sure why there's any hesitation in that. Where's this coming from? It comes from many places. For one thing, in public law, in constitutional amendments, all constitutional amendments are subject to the principle of implementing them immediately. So when the constitutional amendment is made, it changes the status of whatever it is, and instead, the new status with the Constitution takes effect. That's what they do here. So the status at the time of the President's election was eliminated, and instead, the new status adopted by referendum came into effect and, of course, applied to the President. Because it's impossible to talk about the rights earned in constitutional amendments like this. So the earned right, for the President, what could it be? I mean, there's no right to be president like that. When you say rights earned for the presidency, well, there may be rights to work, for example, or personal rights, but what we're talking about here is being president, presidential status, that can't be a earned right, of course. Sure, there's something else.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0097par0309	What if we cut it down to a year?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0096par0310	If we cut it down to a year... Now, the referendum, of course, let's have a referendum. If the amendment is made, if you put a new status in a new referendum, then that status would be valid.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0097par0312	We took it out of here, we changed the Constitution, we reduced it to a year...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0098par0313	Come talk to me here!
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0096par0314	Now, sir, there are other matters. With Law 31/5/2007 and 5678, the political power issued a declaration of will. In this declaration of will, he said: "These five plus five and the election of the President is for the 11th President." He made it clear that political power is for the 11th President." Now, it says, "Sir, after that this was removed, removed, removed, this sentence was annulled." It was canceled, but no other will was given in its place. The next referendum, again five plus five, was adopted as the basis of the President's election to take over. So the declaration of political power in Law 5678 remained true. Oh, it's still valid today. It's a statement of will. It's like this: You sign an international agreement, but you don't side with it, but even though you're not a party, that signature, that will statement, there's a legal consequence. What's the legal conclusion? He's obliged not to violate the will statement, even if it's not in effect. Of course, the question arises: Parliament was reduced to four years for the election, with a referendum, and four years later the election was held. So why do we separate the president from this, what's the legal reason to separate the president from this? That's a question to ask. E, when you add all this up, it's obvious that today's President has five plus five. So it's possible to say otherwise, of course, to make other laws, but as Galileo said, the fact that the president's time is five plus five doesn't change the legal truth. Sir, one criticism is that if we do this, then, of course, it means dissolution of the President, the House will issue other laws, reduce its time again, and such Parliamentary pressure will be raised on the President. It's not like that, I mean, what's going to happen to all the presidents, we're not talking about it here. There's something very specific we're talking about here, something very specific. There's a constitutional amendment, there's a referendum. When did this constitutional referendum come into effect? When did he pass judgment? This issue, that's all we're talking about, or he'll put pressure on the President of Parliament, he'll dismiss him... it's written in the Constitution when the President will be tried and when he will be relieved of his post, of course, except for them. There's, uh, there's a... there's a... there's a... there's a... there's a... there's a... there's a... there's a... there's a... there's a... there's a... there's a... there's a... there's There's a referendum approved by the people's will, a Constitutional text. Now, changing this public-accepted text of the Constitution by its will will with the law will have grave consequences, so my biggest concern is that by now the president has continued his mission with a mandate from the Constitution, which he has obtained from the Constitution, but after this, within the next two years -- if it is accepted for seven years -- the President will continue his post with a mandate that does not remove his source from the Constitution. Then, of course, a shadow would have fallen on the presidency. Why bring this shadow down? The presidency is a very important place, perhaps the most important office in the state. Why bring down this shadow? I don't understand that either. I mean, I don't think it's right to keep the President there as a lame duck for two years, and I find that very dangerous, very harmful for the presidency. We're destroying this office, and maybe it's better to avoid it. I think we should treat that position with more respect. If this is all about making a certain person president, it's wrong, too. Well, then, maybe we should say it clearly. And I think it's probably best to make it clear that the original intention is not to deviate from these legal corridors, not to deviate from legal compulsions. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0099par0325	Thank you, Mr. Specten. I take it the Commission has a request?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0100par0327	It's a short statement.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0099par0328	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0100par0330	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, in fact, I think it's very clear, but after the speech of Mr. Turmen, I have come before you to say a few words. When we return to 2007, I am one of the closest to knowing the painting under Turkey's 367 decision that day. At the time, I was running for President of the Constitutional Commission, and in 2007, the issue of electing the President didn't suddenly come to Turkey's agenda. I mean, it's like, you know, it's going so well, we've all sat down, we've all thought, we've discussed it, sir, we've talked about it in a lot of places. That's not how politics works in Turkey. The opposition knows best. Hence, such a change was considered in the circumstances of that day. And the reason is clear: this room you see is blocked. No one's been here except the AK PARTY. That day, look, there's pictures and stuff. Of course, without the number 367, there was no meeting. Our Constitutional Court has made such a wrong decision, and the issue is blocked. The president is elected by the people. The change, the election, is a condition of that day. Of course, this should be thought, debated, debated, half presidency, my beloved presidential, which model would be the future, which should be discussed. We accept all of this. But as I was saying, is it that the process, politics in Turkey, is going so well, and some of the hasty things that are being done are being put on the table here? You have to see this side of the story. Anyway, we've decided. If that's the case, let the people choose the original element, the President. There's no choice but to go public. These preparations were made, and the referendum period was reduced to 120 days. For the two of them, be together, sir, and the general election with the referendum. Why didn't it happen? When Mr. Sezer turned down the law, a hundred and twenty days had to be implemented exactly, and thus the election of our Parliament, the election of our Parliament, has come forward, and the election of the President, has come to an end. But what was the account? First of all, getting the President elected by the public, that was the account; the package went on the road, so it was delivered to the cargo! Now, I have the text from that day. This is the text that brought the Constitutional amendment that elected the President to the public. In temporary 18, 19, we said: "The first round of voting for the 11th President is held on the first Sunday following the publication of this Law in the Official Gazette, and the second round of voting is held on the second Sunday following the first round of voting." That's exactly what I was told, but as I was saying, when we elected the President before the election, there was no point in this decision because there was no response, it was no response now, it was a disresponsive sentence, and after the election, we were here with the Nationalist Movement Party -- if you remember that day, our friends, a significant part -- this was the 19th article that didn't make sense -- along with 18 ▪.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0101par0334	Where was the CHP?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0102par0335	Here, Bulent, here, here...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0100par0336	Now, this is a matter of taking it out of the package...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0102par0337	If you must know, here...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0103par0338	Mr. Aslanoglu, please...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0100par0339	Yeah, well, when it comes down to taking it out of the package, it's 18, 19, 11. We have chosen the president, not the people, and therefore, the rules concerning the newly elected President must apply according to the existing Constitution, which is so clear. Why? Because it says that this Constitution, the 82 Constitution, was chosen in the text of that day for seven years. It says, for seven years, for seven years. So if we're going to comment, we're going to have to do it in this context, and if we're going to make a rule, we're going to have to put it in this context. Now, they're telling us that if you put in a temporary substance, we put in a temporary material, and as I say, the temporary material is written. But why is it written? It was written to be elected by the people, but it didn't work normally when the post-priority came to pass in what we call a delayed law. Since politics doesn't work normally, this is where the picture came from today, and first, our friends need to see it very well, so it's not a forgotten issue in our Commission. Now, that brings up the comment. Could a temporary clause be placed in the Constitution? Like I said, it can't be installed that day, but let's say that when the Constitution was written in 2010, it was, in fact, new...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0104par0342	It could've been put in 5697, Mr. Lamb.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0100par0343	I don't understand.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0104par0344	It could've been put in 5697.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0100par0345	How do you put it? You were there.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0104par0346	In the October 21st referendum, you could put in the temporary clause.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0100par0347	You mean this one from 2010?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0104par0348	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0100par0349	Okay, that's what I'm saying, and that's exactly what I'm trying to tell you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0104par0350	The one in 2007, the October 21st referendum.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0100par0351	Dear friends, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0104par0352	Because you didn't have that kind of willpower.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0100par0353	We removed a substance that was left behind. The Republican People's Party took this to the Constitutional Court. And the Supreme Court said, "It's true what you do." As a party, it is correct to remove the remaining text from the House here, but the package is on its way and in the cargo, our chances of putting a new interim substance there are absolutely zero, if you ask me. He's demanding something that doesn't exist, Mr. Card, saying something that won't happen.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0104par0354	Now that you've removed the substances, you could have put in a temporary substance.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0100par0355	No, that's not possible, that's not going to happen. The reason for the other is because it's finished, and it doesn't matter if you put it there; it's a dead, dead sentence, standing there, a dry tree.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0105par0356	So, what do you make of it?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0100par0357	That's how we got him out. The Constitutional Court said you did it right. He said, "I don't see anything wrong with what was done."
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0106par0358	You didn't have that kind of willpower.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0100par0359	Now, he couldn't have been put there. The package is on its way, it's in the cargo, there's no going back. Now, about that...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0106par0360	Your accounts were different that day.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0100par0361	Oh, you might as well say: "If it were put in 2010, let's talk about it in the September 12th referendum." If you're going to talk, if you're going to say something that makes sense, let's talk about it. We didn't need to, because we said that these rules apply because the President chose the current Parliament for seven years. Our Constitutional Court's decisions, the State's decision confirms it, its law, its credibility, its status. Of course, a temporary clause can be written to the Constitution today. What can you say? The change in history includes the current President's time. Okay, five it is. You can't bring that in by law, dear friends. You can't get seven years down to five by writing the law, seven years there, whatever it is... this law of law, we just write the seven there, that's all. It's a harmony. Otherwise, sir, we'd go up to seven at five. There's no such thing, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0107par0362	Didn't we get elected for five years last semester, Hajji?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0100par0363	Yes, we've been selected for five.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0107par0364	So, why did you do it for four years?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0100par0365	Okay, so we went down to four with an early election decision. Otherwise, it's on the books.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0108par0366	Sir, why did you reduce the duties of members of the Constitutional Court?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0109par0367	What have we done with the members of the Supreme Court, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0110par0368	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0111par0369	Look at the reports from that day. We put the five-year deadline in four years, and we put it all ahead of us. We can leave in three months if we want to. If you're ready, let's go in six months, three or five months, if you want, if you're that curious. Because it's in our hands.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0109par0370	What did we do with the members of the Supreme Court?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0111par0371	That's one thing we can do, the other one's out of our hands. You don't cut the major election, you don't cut the presidential election; you don't have that authority. The other is in our hands. We've killed ourselves, we can't spare anyone else. The problem is that simple.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0112par0372	But you're bringing in the limitation twice.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0111par0373	So five plus five formulas are a formula chosen by the people that will then be applied. That's how we're supposed to see it.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0113par0374	Why are you delaying two years?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0111par0375	The people choose the president, the Parliament chooses... (Sir, can we get away from the parliamentary regime?) Well, let's get away too, dear. What good has the parliamentary regime brought to any country in this world? They're very diverse, and they're a very interesting model.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0114par0376	Mr. Lamb, that's the name of the system.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0111par0377	So it was of no use to Europe. France has been infuriated for years, finally half president, breathed a little. Come on, let's go right to the presidential model. We're building a new constitution, so if we're going to do a job, at least something permanent. Dear friends, the model you call the parlamenter regime is also present in the Balkans in this context. There are 16 countries in the Balkans, 25 countries in the world: I mean, there are parliamentary models, but the president is elected by the public. Is it true? Right, wrong, but a common practice like this has begun in the world, and it's going. Therefore, we have adapted to this current. In the electing of the president of the public, perhaps the new constitution will already consider its powers in this context. That's another matter, so that's another argument.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0115par0379	You make a personal law, a personal law.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0111par0380	But the choice of the president to be elected by the purest public doesn't leave the parliamentary regime alone.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0116par0381	Hopefully, the President will veto it.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0111par0382	In time, will the President and the Prime Minister quarrel or quarrel? Maybe. So, who didn't Demirel argue with, who didn't Ozal fight with? Well, they were part of his party. So they had chosen themselves, they had a policy together, and they were on a parliamentary regime. If there's a fight, where does it come from? There's no parliamentary regime, no presidency, as long as you want to start a fight, so you can pick a fight after you want to! In these circumstances, dear friends, and let me tell you, Mr. Card, in the last semester, your signature is here on the opposition to the subcommittee you are in.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0117par0385	Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0111par0386	I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0117par0387	I wouldn't do that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0111par0388	Okay. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0117par0391	Thank you. Fatosh Gürkan, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Gürkan.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0118par0395	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge to declare my personal opinion on the first chapter of the President's Election Bill. I salute your high council and our beloved nation who follow us. In our political history, the election of the President has often led to political depressions and problems. Their neutrality has been discussed due to the way the presidents were elected. Again, due to the recent problems of the President's election in 2007, a radical solution has become evident. The EC PARTI ruling, a solution to many of our country's chronicized problems, also passed the law on the presidential election, and conducted a study on the immediate end of these discussions. To this end, there has been amendments to the Law on the Amendment to some Articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey of Turkey, dated May 31, 2007, and on the 101st and 102nd amendments of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, in the process of expanding the electoral base by the election of the Republic of Turkey, by the election of the people, and establishing democratic accession, and the active participation of the nation in the process of determining the rulers. On 21/10/2007, the change also went through the public vote, as everyone knows. In accordance with this arrangement, the President's election by the public for five years has opened the way for anyone to be elected President no more than twice. Under these amendments, the final joke of Article 102 states that the procedures and fundamentals related to the presidential election will also be regulated by law. This bill and commission text was prepared in order to regulate the procedures and foundations for the election of the President, which are included in the final joke of Article 102 of the Constitution. A text was drafted in the Commission on the Constitutional Commission during the 23rd Legislature and again because I was on the subcommittee of this Election Law, but in the 24th term, when it became a bitch, it came back to our Constitutional Commission, and in the Constitutional Commission, a text was drafted by us, along with all of our friends from the Commission, passed through the main Commission, and came to the peace of our Parliament along with the bill. Now, of course, the most important topic of discussion here is in detail at this hour, about how long our President's mandate is. Mr. President's mandate -- our 11th President -- has been set for seven years before the execution of Law 5678 -- is the necessity of law enforcement and legal safety principles, for Mr. President to be subject to the provisions of the date of his mandate. Legal security requires specificity and predictability in the rules. After taking part in a status, state, and legal stability set by law, it would also violate the rights earned and therefore the principle of the legal state, which has no reasonable reason and reversive rights. Therefore, there is a clear evidence that our 11th President's mandate is seven years, but unfortunately, the subject is constantly being brought up by the public and confused by the public. A study has been carried out in our commission to ensure that this matter becomes clear, and a temporary clause has been added. A temporary clause has been added that Mr. President Abdullah Gul, and our previous presidents, are seven years in office, and will not be re-elected after that. Of course, our goal is that the election of presidents in the next election is not subject to discussion. Thus, with the adoption of this law, this will be fulfilled. I wish this bill to be good for our country, for our nation, for your great delegation, and for our beloved nation who follow us.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit02spe0119par0403	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan. Congressmans, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0119par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 53rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Talks were completed on the draft of the President's Election Law and on the first part of the Constitutional Commission Report. Now, the question-answer process will take 15 minutes. Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Illum, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Kuşoglu have entered the system. Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0120par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. With the upcoming presidential election, do you intend to do a study on presidential powers reduction or transition into the presidential system? And my second question is, at the end of 2011, how many prisoners and prisoners are in prison in our country? What's their rate of crime, what are their numbers? Is there any interest in a study of the rights of the correctional officers working in prisons at your Ministry? I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0121par0010	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0122par0012	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the term of office of the 11th President is seven years. The interim clause containing the ruling is against the Constitution, and you know it very well. Is your purpose to eliminate uncertainty from this arrangement? Change the agenda? What is your real purpose in this arrangement? That's my first question. And my second question is, if there was a law that increased the President's powers after he was elected President, Mr. President, when I was elected, there were no such powers, I would not use it. Would he say that? I'm curious about that, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0123par0016	Thank you. Mr. Dinçer? No. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0124par0019	Thank you, dear President. Dear MPs, in the June 12, 2011 elections, there are 40 villages in the District of Sivedek, Şanlıurfa Province, in the District of Siverek, where they are not given roads or water. When will the AKP put an end to this partisan behavior? Question two: 7km between Silivri Prison and Silivri State Hospital. In this case, by means of means, the duration of the transport of patients to the state hospital can take up to ten or fifteen minutes at most, but there is no equipment in the infirmary in Silivri Prison, as a doctor on duty -- there is no women's prison there -- where the obstetrician is sent, respectively. When will this be fixed? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0125par0023	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0126par0025	Mr. Secretary, aren't you being unfair to Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan here? You do it once for seven years; if it were five or five, it would have been picked twice. Do you have a clear conscience on this? Two: In the same law, you reduced my parliamentary position to four years last semester. Is that right or law? Haven't the MPs of the 23rd century lost a right here? If these friends are made by the same law, by the same name, by the same time, then why did we lose our rights? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0127par0028	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0128par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the second joke of the 101st Article of the Constitution is that the President's term of office is five years. A person can be elected President at most twice. Isn't it unfair to Mr. Abdullah Gül, by taking the term of the current President up to seven years now, by the will of the people? Is there any obstacle at this time to Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's candidacy for President? Why did you need this change? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0129par0035	Thank you. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0130par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, is it considered to be based on the principle of economic punishment for economic crime by those who have been sentenced to prison for violation of the commitment? Two: How will the Czech Law fare with the removal of the prison sentence? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0131par0041	Thank you. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0132par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister, you know, there's still 12 years left in the Constitutional Court about members. A temporary clause was introduced in Article 18 of this article -- in Article 1, and the members of the current Constitutional Court will serve until the age of sixty-five -- former members of this clause, this Article 18, do you think it is unnecessary, Mr. Secretary? Is it a wrong substance? If the legislator had the same opinion of the President on this matter, would he have arranged it with a preemptive clause? Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0133par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the question I just asked you about the arrested MPs, you told me how to run campaigns that would be decided by the judges. Will the judges decide if they are elected -- at least 51 percent, and on average 61 per cent -- if they are elected? Would such a decision be valid regarding a president chosen by at least 51 percent of the people? This may seem theoretical, but at this point, we're already preparing the law, so it has to be theoretical. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0134par0051	Thank you. Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0135par0053	Mr. President, thank you. Of course, operations have been taking place under the name "KCK" for a long time. We claim that about 5,000 people have been arrested, but the government's authorities have been released from time to time, and there is no such number. No, I'm asking Mr. Secretary, so I'd appreciate it if you would inform the public how much the numbers are. Second, we've been through eight or nine prisons in a few days, and there are serious problems in these prisons, Mr. Secretary. I mean, we know that there are over 20 of your female friends in the Diyarbakır E Type 8 prison, where our Şırnak MP Selma Irmak is staying, and even people stay in the kitchen at night. What do you think about that? You offer a new package, but do you intend to make a change in the new prisons in this package, or in the Anti-Terror Law? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0136par0057	Thank you. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0137par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. I just told you, this parliamentary system has changed, it can't be called a parliamentary system. Mr. Secretary said there are examples in a similar world. And the speaker who spoke after him said it was a farce, that such an argument was a farce. I'm transferring him to both the minister and the academic world. But what I want to ask you is that the 14th article, entitled Aid to these Adays, has been given the opportunity to receive help from real people, such an arrangement. We have a saying: "The mouth that eats is ashamed. " Now, isn't there any possibility that a president who has received help from real people will act in a way that will cause any injustice in the savings of these people tomorrow? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0138par0062	Thank you. Last question, Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0139par0064	Mr. Minister, if Mr. Abdullah Gul resigns in his five-year term as president before he completes seven years, could he ever again run again under this new law? That'll be five plus five, then.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0138par0065	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Mr. Sakık, come in.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0140par0067	Mr. President, of course, Operation TK is our bleeding wound. They're under arrest for this, they're paying a price for it, and they can't defend their mother tongue. What are you going to do about it, Minister? We also heard that you have a new study. I wonder if there could be a formula here sometime. Can a defence be granted in the native language?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0138par0068	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0141par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll start with Mr. Right's question. ▪ Do you intend to reduce or increase the powers of our president? It doesn't make much sense for us to think of it as a ruling group. As you know, these are the powers established in our Constitution. So if such an opinion is to be made, in order to increase or reduce, the Commission for Compromise, which is currently working in parliament, must come to a point on this issue. Our thinking alone won't be practical. The number of prisoners in prison has now reached 130,000. About 28 percent of this one is under arrest, 72 percent convicted. That's our best rate in the last 30 years in terms of fewer prisoners. The number of prisoners is increasing, but when you measure the proportion of the prisoner and the prisoner together, the proportion of the prisoners in Turkey is dropping in terms of those in prison. Of course, I can only give you a statement in writing as to what crimes they are, Congressman. A design for the execution guard was transferred to the Council of Ministers, including a provision for the prison's external security from the gendarmes and a provision for the execution of the Department of Justice. This bill, I hope, will be discussed in the next Council of Ministers and will soon arrive in Parliament. And since the task and responsibility of that package have been changed, we're also considering an arrangement with the correctional officers. Of course, this has to go through the government and the IRS. Mr. Tanal said it was a village of Şanliurfa. But I know that now, and I can't answer that.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0142par0075	Not one, but four.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0141par0076	We'll look into it and ask about it, Mr. Tanal. I don't want to answer that right now. Other than that, the distance between Silivri Prison and Silivri State Hospital is close. Yeah, that's true, but there's a lot of difference between day and night. Day traffic takes time. In this regard, transportation from the freeway is difficult. But the facilities in the infirmary. You said. I believe that within the institution, not the health unit within the prison campus, but the infirmarys in F-type prisons, the first point of intervention. There, as you say, there's not a lot of resources, but there's a medical unit right inside the campus where eight or nine prisons are built. We have the necessary equipment in that medical unit. The experts work there as sentries. In addition, there are experts coming in on certain days of the week in separate or different areas of expertise, and treatments are being made for those in need of prison. However, for those of us who are already in an emergency, it is clear that we will be able to go to public hospitals and higher health services at all times. Mr. Aslanoglu asked, "Isn't five plus five unfair?" Dear friends, we are not at a point of dismantling our arrangement here. There was a constitutional amendment in 2007, and now a number of hesitations in the implementation of this constitutional amendment reveal the will of Parliament to carry out this legislative activity when some speculation is conducted. It's what we think it's supposed to be, or we're not in the right-to-rights operation right now. As a member of the parliament, we served four years in the last term. Isn't it a waste of a year for us? If I'm not mistaken, I think we've made the choice here with the groups in the 2011 elections. We didn't have a political party to oppose it. So the 2011 elections -- I repeat, and I stress -- were not made according to the high election board's schedule of resension -- were not made according to the 2011 elections. Turkey's Grand National Assembly has decided to vote in Parliament on June 12th, with the Supreme Election Board drafting an election calendar for June 12th. There's a lot of difference. This will not set a precedent for the presidency. Other than that, Mr. Scholar Light, our President has been in office for five years. It can be picked twice at most. Isn't it unfair to Mr. Gül? I just tried to answer him. So what we're doing here is we're not doing this five plus five, we're doing this seven years, it's an abstract norm study. The work in 2007 is a practice of compromise over hesitations. Other than that, it's not an effort to provide a special advantage for anyone.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0143par0082	You're preventing the President from running.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0144par0083	Why are you blocking it? Why do you forbid it?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0141par0084	Dear MPs, Mr. Bayraktutan has a question that you have made an exception in the Constitution that the current members will serve until they are sixty-five years old. That's right. This decision has been issued, but there are also examples that do not exist. The time of duty has been reduced on the cultural nature-sustaining boards. According to the reduced time, the Ministry of Culture has relieved them of their duties. These members have gone to administrative court, and ultimately the issue has come to the State. In its assessment, the prosecutor ruled that they should complete the previous time they were chosen, since there is no special ruling that this arrangement also shortens the duration of those in the current mission. The Constitutional Court has similar convictions. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0145par0086	On the contrary, there is a verdict.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0141par0087	I'll answer the questions I can't answer in writing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0146par0088	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0147par0089	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0148par0090	He's always giving false information. How's that, Minister?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0149par0091	If he resigns in five years. Give him an answer, I mean, that's not a subject that can be answered later.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0150par0092	It never occurred to you, so you can't answer.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0151par0093	The question-answer process is complete. Now...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0152par0095	Mr. President, I'm sorry. The Minister's information is not accurate. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0151par0097	Please, Mr. Tanal... please...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0152par0098	I have a court order. Here's the right information.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0151par0099	Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. There are three motions on article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current President's Election Bill of the First Amendment. The purpose of this law, which is included in the Article, is to submit and propose the extension of the scope of the law after the declaration. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the addition of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the 138 rows of the bill, after the declaration of the 1st Amendment. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 138 Sequential Elections Bills 1. We demand and demand that the clause be removed from the draft text. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0153par0108	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0151par0109	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0154par0110	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0151par0111	Namık Havutça, Balıkesir MP who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0155par0113	Mr. President, I've received a pledge from my group on the motion. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, just a year ago our Turkey went to a very important constitutional referendum and millions of our people's money was spent on the streets. And at that point, look, on Turkey's agenda, we're talking about whether the presidential election should be five years or seven years. I'd like to ask the Turkish people: Didn't the Prime Minister and the AKP lawyers predict that this issue would be a problem today? So what happened in one year, in 2007, there was a constitutional change, and it happened again in 2010, and our President was already on duty, and why didn't the ruling political power, which claims to have received 49 per cent of the vote in the election squares today, predict that the Turkish people would vote for stability in Turkey? I'd like to put it here as a strange contradiction. Dear MPs, Mr. Hajji is a constitutional lawyer, and we have completed the school of Istanbul Law. What we've been taught is that when there are problems between people and people in Turkey, they go to courts, they go to administrative courts when there are problems between people and the state, and when there are problems with the state, they go to the Constitutional Court, and the issue -- for example, if it's subject to private law -- is resolved according to the positive legislation of that day, and it's solved according to the law. Now look, there is a constitutional problem in Turkey, how will this problem be resolved? International law will be resolved according to our Constitution and the current legislation, and, clearly, the second joke of our Constitution 101 is that the president's mandate is five years. Now, the Constitution is clear. The president's mandate is claimed to be seven years by the law -- by law, by a temporary clause -- by a new law. It is clear that this will go to the Constitutional Court when it passes, since it is not possible to set up a five-year arrangement under the Supreme Court. Dear MPs, our Minister of National Education was just here. He changed his duties and services in the field of national education, under the rule of law, by the authority you have received, in the health of the government, which has made significant changes in the Turkish administrative structure, in Article 2 of the law. Now, in Article 2 of the Law on Missions and Organizations of the Ministry of National Education, Ataturk principles and revolutions and Ataturk nationalism have been removed from the duties and agencies of the Ministry of National Education, as if Turkey is an obstacle to democratic, secular and modern civilization. We're looking, and I wonder why this arrangement is being arranged. The initial provisions of our constitution, which must be done when the 2nd Article of our Constitution is in the middle and when giving orders, were, unfortunately, a strange contradiction to the Turkish public in this arrangement of the Ministry of National Education. Again, on January 12th, Mr. National Education Minister had an explanation that the 19th of May, the children were cold, the education failed, that only Ankara could be celebrated. Now, I'm asking Turkey here, and I'm asking the Turkish people: May 19 is the day this country's national revolution, the torch of national independence, the day our nation proudly stands on, the day when all of our young people are one punch in the stadiums. Living today's ambition and beauty, gathering in stadiums, is one of our nation's greatest ambitions. Now we're running out of time. No sir, national education is failing. For reasons such as Turkish people, we don't agree to take this step to undermine our sense of unity. Therefore, Dear Minister of National Education, I would like to immediately return from this wrong, from this sentence, and say that the days that will ensure the national unity and integrity of the Turkish people must be celebrated with greater concern, with enthusiasm, unity, unity, and love, all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0156par0124	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the addition of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the 138 rows of the bill, after the declaration of the 1st Amendment. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0157par0131	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0156par0132	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0158par0133	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0159par0134	İstanbul MP Levent Tüzel will speak.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0156par0135	Levent Tüzzel, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0160par0138	Mr. President, I think it's safe to say that the current bill of law, which has been held, has been a new move by the government in the government for some time. But it turns out that it won't be the last, because it seems to be the kind of new arrangements that will be applied when needed. The president's mandate was given to Parliament to end the debate in his term, but as usual, the Justice and Development Party will use its authority to govern the Justice and Development Party on the basis of the parliamentary majority. What does this arrangement account for? The AKP's ruling and its idea of continuing for many years and planning the current Prime Minister's future is being calculated, but the AKP administration is wrong to think it will protect the current majority. A friend of ours, who speaks in these negotiations, is the last word of the House. When he says, he doesn't really consider the people. And of course, the people will determine the life of a government that seizes more rights and freedoms every day, destroys the future, destroys the common life and peace, rounds up the abyss of income injustice, so the last word will always be your people, despite all the violence and oppression policies. The president is elected by the people. There is talk of the self-esteem of the president, who has been called objectively and psychologically supported by the people. To what extent will making the public choose? The current President also emerged from an elected party with the support of the majority of the people, but was sadly left to watch all injustices, rights extortions, human rights violations. What kind of neutrality is it to remain silent and to watch every day when hate crimes are being carried out by provocative psychological actions against the public? What was the position of Mr. President in the face of bombings, such as bombings, which have raised the suffering of the people with war policies? In the law, the elected President is not a candidate out of public opinion, for some reason, the ability to be elected is contrary to everyone's right to choose. It is not enough to say that these are the requirements of constitutional provisions. If it's democracy and public elections, why is it that without the search for higher education and similar conditions, and without being expressed by the Turkish nation, for example, citizens of the Republic of Turkey, why does it not open the way for you to become a candidate? The regulations, such as the 20 MPs or the common candidate for parties, which would mean that parliament would nominate them, are essentially a violation of the right of the people's right to be elected. Basically, my fellow congressmen, we need to discuss the progress of our country. What kind of progress is he in? Is it not a pattern that everyone should be concerned about? No one has any life insurance, special authority, private law enforcement courts are in effect. He makes decisions all the time. No one has freedom of thought. Public organisation and democratic, legitimate struggle are treated as a secret organization. Here are the legal, elected, political executives of the Peace and Democracy Party, whose group is in parliament: thousands are arrested today. Thousands of people have been arrested, thrown into prisons, but there was a decision made yesterday, like Hrant Dink, that when a journalist in favor of peace, common life, freedom, when an intellectual is killed, somehow, there is no organization in this political murder! And whose work is this political murder? What kind of power, what kind of sovereignty gave birth to a killer from a baby? We know there's a large government organization behind this premeditated murder, and there's a network of murders that this organization protects, protects, and condones. An unresolved state can't build an equal, common, peaceful future of our peoples. That's the problem we need to see, the problem we need to solve, and that's what our people need to follow. It's peace, it's democracy. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0161par0148	Thank you, Mr. Correspondent, but I must remind you that there is no war in Turkey, there is terror, there is a terrorist organization, there is Turkish Armed Forces fighting it, there is security.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0162par0150	Warplanes...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0163par0151	I remind you of Roboski, Mr. President, don't forget Roboski.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0164par0152	The Chief of Staff calls it a war!
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0165par0153	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0166par0154	You're in no position to comment, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0165par0155	I'll do it. I do it when it's about the government, people. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current President's Election Bill of the First Amendment. The purpose of this law, which is included in the Article, is to submit and propose the extension of the scope of the law after the declaration. Enver Virtue and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0167par0161	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0165par0162	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0168par0163	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0165par0164	Enver Erdem, Elazığ MP who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0169par0167	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the motion issued for the First Amendment to President Election Act 138. I salute your high council. Before we begin with my words, I wish our family and our nation's head, Mr Rauf Denktas, the President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, whom we sent to his permanent resting place yesterday. Number 138 is the purpose and scope of the first article of this Bill of Law. The purpose of this law is to organise the qualifications for the presidential candidates, the pre-election, the election day, and the procedures for the post-election procedures. 80 per cent of this arrangement, consisting of twenty-four articles, is a repetition of the Constitutional provisions and the known laws. If we put aside the general principles of voting, such as freedom, equality, secrecy, generality, judicial control, count of votes and transcription, its true purpose will be revealed. It is also about the mandate of the 11th President and whether he will run again. We can make the problem easy to understand by revealing the purpose and scope of this bill. Dear lawmakers, with these regulations, we are once again faced with the problem of a regime in our country. The idea of replacing the constitutional regulation passed through the referendum with a legal arrangement has also added a serious legal problem to the regime issue. This change, which is intended to be done, brings serious problems both in style and style. The problem of method in democracies is one of the most important problems. The parallel or reverse theory of operations, one of the main principles of law, is violated by this arrangement. So there's a very simple rule called the norms hierarchy: that no legal arrangement can be contrary to the arrangement at the top. So regulations and regulations can't be against the law, laws can't be against the constitution. With this change, the hierarchy of norms will also be violated. So if the President's mandate is set up with the Constitutional clause, the amendments to it should also be made with the provisions of the Constitution. The Constitutional amendment in 2007 reduced the President's mandate from seven to five years, and no temporary, exceptional regulations were made. On July 22, 2007, parliamentary elections were held as a result of the same constitutional amendment and a five-to-four-year mandate. Now, I ask you, how are you going to let this freak go? Would you say the same arrangement applies to lawmakers, not to the President? What, though, if the Constitution had been changed in Article 104, and the President's powers had been restricted? Were you going to ask him to use his old powers again, or was he going to say, "I want to use my old powers?" Dear lawmakers, the polemics of the President's mandate are artificial. As with any presidential election, these last two years, which Mr. President will serve, are intended to be controversial. The purpose of replacing the President's mandate with the Constitution, rather than the Constitution, is to open the way for the law to be taken to the Constitutional Court and to be constantly discussed. What if the Constitutional Court cancels this arrangement again, then the Supreme Election Board will be brought in? Why is the office of the presidency, which should be neutral and undisputed, always in the middle of debates? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] From a legal point of view of this problem, there must be a problem. If they are trying, the legal or constitutional solution is also known to be very easy. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0170par0176	Thank you, Your Grace. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the first article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 2 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the "nurse and abroad" declaration of the 2nd joke in Article 2 of the current 138 row bill. Turkey's Grand National Assembly to Mr. President 2nd of the current Presidential Election Bill Article 1. 2. 3. 4. And 6. We respectfully present the removal of your jokes from the Bill text. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The draft of the 138 Sequential Election Act, which is currently in session, is the second of the 138 presidential selection Act. We demand and demand that the clause be removed from the draft text. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0171par0187	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0170par0188	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0172par0189	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0170par0190	Mr. Nedret Akova, Balıkesir MP, asking for a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0173par0191	Mr. President, I have been promised to speak in favour of the motion that the President's Election Act should be removed from the proposal of Article 2 of the Constitution. Despite the need to clarify how our state's top administration will be determined by the draft of the President's Choice Act, the results will be seen in the future, as an example of law enforcement, when the concept of the rule of law has been cleared out, as it suits. Laws should be passed in parliament, not in self-interest, but in how the people are best managed. How do I gain the best strength when our future is being shaped? It is clear that it will not benefit anyone if it is acted on the idea of the beginning. The results of all forms of law enforcement have been disastrous, taking advantage of the loopholes. Every time the law's been put underfoot, our people have paid a lot of the consequences. The amendment, which is intended against the Constitution, puts a time bomb in the government's administration. We will soon see the heavy consequences of this in the constitutional sense. The presidency is a constitutional institution, and all of the regulations so far have been made by the Constitution. According to the change in the referendum, the President's mandate is five years. Another example of unlawful conduct is the amendment to the law of the constitution, which is adopted by its people. As a result of the obligation to amend and regulate an regulation on the Constitutional Court's mandate with the Constitution, these regulations were made through constitutional regulations on the 12/9/2010 referendum on the mandate of the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and on the 94/3th and the mandate of members of the Constitutional Court. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has clearly expressed its will in this direction. In Article 6 of the Constitution, the Turkish Nation uses its sovereignty by hand, according to the Constitution's principles. No one or body can use a state authority that does not take its source from the Constitution. Despite its decree, the state authority that does not take its origin from the Constitution is being used today. Where laws and constitutional amendments are being made is the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Turkey's Grand National Assembly reduced the President's mandate to five years, allowed him to be elected a second time, and agreed to be elected directly by the public. He has shown that the current President will be subject to this change by not bringing a temporary arrangement for himself. This amendment has also been passed by the public vote. The current President has no exceptions. It is not the draft of the President's Election Act, but the bill to raise Prime Minister Erdogan to the House in 2014. By making a personal arrangement, it violates the principle of generality and objectiveness of the law. After August 28, 2012, there will be a President who does not receive his power from the Constitution, and I also think that his actions will be destroyed and he will have power. There is a good chance that the Constitutional Court will call off the law if it goes to the Constitutional Court. Deliable lawmakers cannot make legal or constitutional arrangements on what they want in democracies based on the majority of parliaments or political ruling groups. In Article 105 of our Constitution, the Constitution has been clearly established in accordance with the conditions under which constitutional regulations can be carried out and which procedures it is subject to. For this reason and also in the Article of the Constitution, the constitutional regulations and parliaments do not have the authority to appreciate the procedures and foundations of the constitutional regulations, and the provisions of the constitutional amendment are binding to all and binding to all. Clearly, it is not possible for democracy to be incompatible with the concept of democracy and to enter into and apply these principles in the face of fundamental and indispensable principles of the constitution and democracy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The political government is sabotaging the constitutional system with its idea of a enforcer. That's why I'm using my rights in favor of the motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0174par0202	Thank you, Mr. Akova.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0175par0205	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0174par0206	I will, Mr. Hamzacebi. I will submit the motion to your votes. But there's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Kart, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Ekinci, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Akar, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Karaahmetoglu, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Acar, Mr. Topal, Mr. Star, Mr. Akova. Yeah, I'll give you three minutes, and I'll start the roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly to Mr. President 2nd of the current Presidential Election Bill Article 1. 2. 3. 4. And 6. We respectfully present the removal of your jokes from the Bill text. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission put it in the motion?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0176par0223	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0174par0224	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0177par0225	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0174par0226	Speaking on the motion, Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu is an Ottomaniye MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0178par0229	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to remove some jokes from the draft text of the President's Election Code, 138 rows, and to remove some of the 2th Articles of the President's Choice Act. I salute your high council. Starting with my remarks, I ask for the mercy of one of the milestones of Turkish nationalism, the chief and eternal leader of the Turkish Cypriot people, the founder of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, Rauf Denktas. I strongly condemn those who did not understand the right fight in Cyprus and Turkey recently, and those who did not want to understand it, and those who did not fit it in Anatolia at the time. On the other hand, with his inferior identity, he managed to become a beloved and successful champion of the Turkish nation, to make the Turkish nation happy with his football, with his national football identity, to lead us to triumphs, and today to those who want to divide us into lower identities, to those who have given the best answer to traitors, to Lefter Kucukandonyadis. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have preferred the parliamentary system since the beginning of the Republic of Turkey. This system, the convention in the former Turkish states, is a continuation of its current tradition. In this framework, since 1920, our state has always been governed by parliaments of representatives of the nation, except for some short and extraordinary cuts. The nation elects its MPs, and the MPs choose the legal order, the government and the President. It is roughly possible to call this system the parlamenter system. In 1924, 1961, and 1982, this system, which has been implemented by the regulations envisioned in the constitutions, has resolved its sorrows over time with changes made within it, but the main fiction of the system, the soul, has always been preserved. Now, after the events of 2007, known as the 367 crisis, the AKP has made an arrangement that paves the way for the president's election by the public. Parliament's mandate was replaced by four years, the President's term is five years, and the President's election by the people and other issues have been brought. Since 2002, the mentality that has been in power for ten years has been made by me. We may have said that then, but here I am saying this now. It continues to trigger and magnify the chaos, the crises, that it feeds on its understanding. In 2002, the AKP said that the President had too much authority because he wasn't appointed as he wanted to be, that he wasn't appointed by him, that he should reduce the President's powers, but in private cases, the President could be with us tomorrow, not to touch him. The AKP said, "Let's not touch him." According to our faith, loyalty in the covenant is from faith, meaning that it is a sign of the firmness of his faith to keep one's promise. Since 2002, the AKP has deceived the Turkish nation in all areas in the economy, domestic and foreign policy, fighting terrorism. Now, the President is disrupting the essence of the parliamentary system with the Election Code bill, leading the system into chaos, anarchy, as it has done so far. With the current system, the President is the head of the administration, which is one of the legal, executive, and jurisprudence established in the Constitution, and is the irresponsible wing of the nation and is elected by its representatives. Even so, there may be a variety of disagreements between the President and the government. This bill envisions the election of the President by the public. More than half of those in the election will be the President of whomever he wants. The parliamentary system in the spirit of the Constitution is upside down. Being elected by both Parliament and the President by the people will make this system unknowable, unintelligible, so Nasrettin Hoxha will make it look like he cut off his beak, his wings, his feet, and now you look like a bird. On the other hand, the government, which was elected by the People's Assembly, was elected by more than half of the nation's votes, on the other hand, two separate elements of power from the nation, from the election, from the vote. It's easy to predict the problems that might arise. Today, we will make our brother Abdullah Gul the President of the United States, saying, "Mr. President." Although some of the people who occupied these two positions were declared by Mr. Prime Minister, please consider the problems that will arise when this bill is under law and when the practice is carried out. Our advice is that since 2002, in this House...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0179par0242	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0178par0243	... In the government's practice, the Jacobin approaches are the fact that the Justice and Development Party, which has not been able to make any difference in the direction of the one man's right and the one who has not had hair removed from its fascist slopes and from its error.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0179par0244	Please, Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0178par0245	In this framework, I salute the Turkish nation's MPs with the desire to adopt our proposal by the Supreme Assembly.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0179par0247	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the "nurse and abroad" declaration of the 2nd joke in Article 2 of the current 138 row bill. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0180par0253	Mr. President, our voters abroad are already voting, according to this law, I don't understand the motion. I don't agree, it doesn't mean anything because it's the motion.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0179par0254	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0181par0255	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0179par0256	Hasip Kaplan Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0182par0258	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I understand that the President of the Constitutional Commission, Burhan Kuzu, does not understand this motion. You guys understand, don't you?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0183par0259	Your motion is completely wrong.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0182par0260	Did the voters vote or not because there were no logs on June 12th? They didn't use it, brother. So he's not a citizen of yours abroad? Aren't you going to have a voter? No logs? I don't understand. You won't understand. You'll need more professors to understand. Now, let me tell you something else: look, we're talking about the presidential election. I want all groups to listen very carefully to these words. There are terms in this that touch my conscience. I'll tell you, I believe you'll all agree. You are referring to the 11th President. The 12 September coupger, Kenan Universe, is called the 11th President. He shut down this House and served as the head of state. Are you guys digesting? Are you digesting the 7th President, Kenan Evren? His mission date is 80-89. He, now, the defendant, will be tried on April 4th, and they have imposed a restraining order. I don't know how many murders, almost two million people being tagged, how many thousands of people are missing, what's-his-name. Now, I ask you, do the Parliament accept Kenan Universe as President or not, friends? If we're not, come on, let's erase that title as a four-party group today. One of the best things we can do in this election is one of the things that will bring honor to this House. I object to the fact that the House still recognizes a coupger as President of a coup d'état accused of closing the House. Don't you guys rebel? Aren't you guys rioting? Well, let's drop it, we're missing a president. Say ten, say ten, guys, but let's let this Parliament do it because they shut it down. Look, you're making four mistakes in this presidential election. Mr. Minister is gone, Minister of Justice, but still, the Minister for the European Union has arrived, and we may soon be ministers in charge of the world. One, we're making a mistake. What is it? The constitutional amendment cannot be changed by the law, my friends. Look, as long as you don't place the Constitution as a temporary clause, by procedure, by error, by law, by amendment of the Constitution, when you've made the President's election, you've started the A-way of a controversial election. We're not enough, but enough of the main opposition to go to the Supreme Court. Number two, you're making the real mistake. What's his real mistake? You're blocking his way into running for president again. You're limiting candidates, you're asking them to nominate 20 MPs. Why? Can't he show five confederations? Can't five parties have a non-parliament party? Can't 500,000 people get signatures and nominate one person? I mean, what's the point of getting ahead of the people's will? That's his real mistake. Look, I'll tell you something else, you're making a political mistake. Do you know what a political error is? This constitutional amendment passed through a referendum. Where do we all respect the will of the nation? If it's respect for the will of the nation, five plus five, there'll be elections in 2012, friends. We're making a political mistake. You're making a political mistake with this law. I don't know your referendum, your will, by the will of the nation, and by the law. I have a suggestion for you, look, you're the majority, do like Chavez, he's made a law, he's the head of state for life. Take out a law, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and let's all relax at once because he's the president of the Republic of Turkey for life. Don't make a mistake, a mistake, a political mistake, and call Kenan Evren. Don't do this, guys. Look, every member of parliament in this parliament, on April 4th, when this Parliament is in that hearing, because it is closed, when it is involved, it is entitled to the will of the House. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0184par0271	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0185par0272	Mr. President, I have a brief request for the 60th Amendment, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0184par0273	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0185par0276	Mr. President, Mr. Justice Minister has just answered questions, stating that since the election took place in four years due to the parliamentary general elections in 2011, this cannot be a precedent for the presidential election. The Republican People's Party says the mandate of the 11th President is five years, in parallel with the fact that the President's mandate was set as five plus five under the Constitutional amendment in 2007. As evidence of this view, many legal arguments also suggest that the parliamentary mandate was reduced from five years to four years, and that the general election of parliament was made in 2011. In talks held at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 3 March 2011, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ -- the deputy leader of the group at the time -- Mr. Suat Kılıç -- stated that the General Assembly, which was convened to vote in its statements, has been convened as the election will be held every four years instead of five years, and the decision has been taken into this framework. I read Mr. Bekir Bozdağ's sentence in the exact words, Mr. Bozdağ says, "For this reason, in 2007, we are following our nation's orders, since the will our nation has adopted in the public vote is to renew Parliament in four years." I would like to read the sentence of Mr. Suat Kılıç, which is very briefly taken into account, and Mr. Kılıç says, "Our Constitution has been subject to change from five years to four years in the tenure of Turkey's members of the Grand National Assembly. In accordance with this mandate, the election of the Turkish Grand National Assembly is held every four years. The election decision in 2011 is not an early election, but perhaps a 35-day early election, as Mr. Bekir Bozdağ said again in the minutes. Therefore, it is a precedent for the presidential election, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0186par0281	I thank you. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0187par0288	Mr. President, they mentioned my name and gave me a statement of my own. I want to make a statement.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0186par0289	Come in, Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0187par0292	Mr. President, I have my signature on the motion that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has elected, and at that time, I have my speech on the Constitutional Commission, and I have my speech on Parliament, and in both of them -- the talks I'm doing in the Constitutional Commission and Parliament -- I've made this very clear and much clearer in the Constitutional Commission. This proposal, regardless of whether the National Assembly election will be held in four years or five years, we have a promise made to our people on September 12th that it will be done in four years. According to Article 77 of the Constitution of Parliament, he is also entitled to an early election decision. Thus, this is an early choice. But since we have committed it to our nation every four years, there is a period of thirty-five days if you do the math for four years. I said to these arguments, and in my speech, the mandate of parliament is four years. So now we're almost four years out, we're making a choice. I don't have an explanation in the General Assembly or the Constitutional Commission. On the contrary, that's exactly what my explanation is about.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0188par0293	Thirty-five days ahead. You said, Mr. Secretary, thirty-five days.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0189par0294	You didn't promise me five years?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0187par0295	We are fulfilling our promise to our people.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0189par0296	Didn't you promise the presidency for five years?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0187par0297	Parliament has an early election decision, but not for the presidency.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0189par0299	No? Oh, you swallowed it. You had a glass of water?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0190par0300	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0191par0301	Mr. President, I propose that Mr. Bekir Bozdağ take a look at the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated March 3, 2011.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0192par0302	I looked.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0191par0303	It seems Mr. Bozdağ has forgotten about the passing of time.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0193par0304	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi, I understand.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0191par0305	Wait a second... look, I'm telling you, we're moving it up even if it's thirty or five days early. So instead of July 22nd, there's a mini-election to June 12th.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0194par0306	If you look up, he's talking back to you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0193par0307	Mr. Hamzacebi, thank you. Point taken.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0191par0308	The report is here, Mr. Bozdağ, please...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0193par0309	Okay, Mr. Hamzacebi, thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0195par0310	In order to enter into the reports, Mr. Bozdağ said that he was accepted at the referendum. And We made a covenant with our people, and We reduced them from five years to four. So you admit to breaking your promise about the presidency.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0196par0311	Parliament has no authority to prioritize the presidential election.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0195par0312	I invite you to keep that promise.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0196par0313	We keep our promise.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0197par0314	Thank you, Mr. Vural. [[Continue]] I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0198par0321	Keep your promise to the people!
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0199par0322	You're taking away two years of the people.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0197par0323	There are three motions on Article 3; I'm having them read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first election be added in 2012, after the declaration of the 138th draft of the 138th Amendment. Congressmans, now that the motions I'm going to read are in the same context, I'm going to take the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment or I'm going to have them read their reasons. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey's Grand National Assembly to Mr. President The current presidential election is 3rd in the Bill of the Legislature. We respectfully present the removal of the clause from the draft text and the detection of other substances. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd draft of the 138 Sequential Election Code. We demand and demand that the clause be removed from the draft text. Does the Commission agree with the motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0200par0333	He doesn't agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0197par0334	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0201par0335	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0197par0336	Anybody want a word on the motion? Mahmut Tanal, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0202par0340	Mr. President, dear Court, I salute you all. Of course, in law, there is a principle called "the word" and "the word" and "the word" and "the word" and "the word" and "the word" and "the word" and "the word" and "the word"
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0203par0342	They all fly according to these!
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0202par0343	I'd like to start with a timeline. The High Election Board has to do with these presidential elections and general elections, whether the general elections are held in four years or five years, whether the presidential election is held in five years or seven years. When the Constitutional amendment is made in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, when it is reduced from five years to four years, in normal circumstances, it should be done in 2012, when the High Election Board's number 26 February 2011 is the number 120th term for the 24th century parliamentary election in 2011. I mean, when is this? This was a decision made by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 3 March 2011 before its 73rd Union. So if the Grand National Assembly of Turkey had, as you call it, a choice decision had been made by the Constitutional Law, I respect Mr. Burhan Lamb, and I said, "Mr. Lamb Hodja, there should be an election contract here in the early election book, in the minutes." You said, "I'll take a look at it too." I've read it, and if you've read it, there's no choice when you're there. However, without this decision, Parliament has already made it clear and clear that the election will be held in 2011 with the Supreme Election Board's Resolution 120. In this regard, my dear friends, please, read the historical transcripts, and it would be better if we had these conversations. Because the people of Asia Minor have faith, God believes in him first, and then believes in the state. And who would he believe in the government? He believes in those who exercise authority in the name of the state. I mean, it's not right for him to make such false statements. When we come to it, dear friends, here are the relevant Constitutional rules that are now in effect. The President's term of office is five years, so there is no uncertainty. The Constitution Article 11: is the basic law that binds constitutional provisions, legislation, executive and judicial bodies, administrative authorities and other persons. ( Constitutional Article 6: ▪ No one can use a state authority that does not take the source of an organ from the Constitution.) So, in the face of these clear rules, what makes you think of seven years, the law we're talking about today? The seven-year term was included in the 101st Article of the Constitution in the ancient text, which is no longer in effect today. But the fact that this rule has been broken is also incontrovertible. How, then, is it possible that a rule that does not apply takes the authority of the incumbent and sets the mandate of Gul for seven years? The constitution binds state bodies and, more importantly, provides the use of a state authority. There is no consistent and logical answer to these questions. The essence of the legal state is the principle of trust in the law and, depending on it, to know and understand the possible effects of the rule of law. For a striking example: If you had been divided after Mr. Gül was elected, would President Gul be able to say: "I have been selected with the articles of the Constitution, and after I have been elected, you will not reduce my term of office, my powers here, and I ask for the same authority. What would you have done if he had said? You couldn't do that. This is the universal principle of the Constitution. The problem here is the Erdogan-Gül conflict. How can we make such a transition in order to prevent the conflict between Erdogan and Gul? Here I am, as deputy of the Republic of Turkey, also reporting to the Turkish people the injustice you have done to Gul, as the rights defender of Gül. (CHEERING) You're being unfair to Gul. Rose is a citizen like me. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You're in violation of international contracts, you're in violation of the principle of equality, so please stop this injustice. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0204par0351	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0205par0352	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0204par0353	Mr. Hamzacebi, the motions of the same nature, I promise, I don't propose to vote. I'll ask the nationalist movement group after that. Yes, would anyone like a word in the same motion?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0206par0355	Mr. Mehmet Erdogan.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0204par0356	Mehmet Erdogan, Müğla MP. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0207par0359	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding our motion on Article 3 of the Presidential Election Code, 138 rows we are discussing. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. The article we are talking about is unnecessaryly added to the bill of the law, because it is clearly included in our Constitution. We have a lot of lawyer friends in the High Council, and we have lawyers who follow closely the work of the House; lawyers and reasonable people who listen to us, and I believe we're talking about this with a smile. We're here to discuss open sentences that even first-year law school students won't discuss. Actually, the main problem is not being able to talk about a system. The government has made it a habit to edit in response to daily developments, as it has done in all legislations. However, by reacting to someone or by day - to - day political accounts, regulations bring with them new challenges and debates from the day it comes into effect. Our advice to power is to stop acting on the wind and create a cognitive working environment. Pretending to have problems that they don't have, or to pretend they don't have problems, is nothing but stealing the time of the High Assembly and our nation. To regulate the issues that must be organised with the Constitution with the law, to seize Parliament's authority to regulate the issues that must be regulated with the law, has not been able to come up with a solution, so far, friends will not be able to produce them after this. Now, you claim that the re-organisation, including five and five, could not be valid for the 11th President, according to the legislation that was in effect at the time of the election of the 11th President. This is too clear a matter to argue with. If the 11th President's mandate had been envisioned for seven years, the constitutional amendment could have been ruled as a vote. Now he insists on a major misdemeanor, the President's mandate and the President's election are mixed up. Today we are in no position to discuss the President's term of office. If we're going to discuss this, we're going to have to bring up a constitutional amendment, bring up a constitutional amendment. Now, if we're going to discuss the process of the President's election, we're going to have to get these provisions out of this law. It is openly against the Constitution to try to regulate a matter that has been organised in the Constitution, and it is absurd for all lawyers to discuss it. It is pointless and unnecessary to rephrase the issues that are clearly set out in the Constitution. The election of the president by the public is contrary to the essence of the democratic parliamentary system. In the Constitution, I think it's the most important issue that we have to address in the Constitutional Amendment. Again, there has been a Commission for Harmony with the participation of all groups for the Constitutional Amendment in the Supreme Assembly, while the Commission is continuing its work, and it is pointless and unnecessary to re-open these regulations here in which the Commission intervenes in the field of its work. This President's mandate, the President's powers, the democratic parliamentary system's involvement in the new constitution, must be fully studied and brought to Parliament with the new constitution. Therefore, both the third article and the temporary clause added to this law must be removed from this law. There's no need to waste time here on these meaningless substances. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0208par0367	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. There is a request for a roll call before the motions vote. I'm going to grant that request now. [[A group of CHP MPs stood up]] Mr. Hamzaçebi, Mr. Kart, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Akar, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Bay Bay Bay Bay Bayututan, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Köse, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Şafahoğlu, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Ekcin, Mr. Sarı. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough numbers of meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first election be added in 2012, after the declaration of the 138th draft of the 138th Amendment. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0209par0386	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0208par0387	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0210par0388	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0208par0389	Iron Steel, Mud MP. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0211par0391	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the presidential election Act 138. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party, I salute you with respect and love. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, society is alive, dynamic. To meet the political, economic, historical demands of the living and dynamic society must be the duty of the High Assembly before anyone and every institution. When Parliament approaches the problem in this way, it should be our duty to all of us to evolve into a mindset based on the welfare and happiness of society, which provides a liberal, dismantling, right-wing, fair income distribution that covers hundreds of problems and problems that will serve to save the day, rather than some palliative, temporary, legal changes that will help save the day. We come from a tradition in which we will celebrate the 92nd year of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in 92, 1921, 1924, 1960, and ultimately in 1980, four times the need to change the Constitution, hundreds of times the law and the amendment. What are you going to be now, instead of playing with laws, laws, who are society, who are people, what are the religious, religious, ethnic, and identity problems of society? The day has come and passed when we need to focus on and resolve them. We discuss this every day when we do not provide a focus, interest, and sensitivity in this historical process that compares us to problems and adversity. It's only been four years since October 2007, and it's only been a year and a half since the September 12th 2010 referendum, and we can't explain to the public that we're discussing similar problems and problems again. In the September 12, 2010 referendum, there is no greater irresponsibility than the will of the people. We would like to remind the Prime Minister, who says, "There is no greater power than the will of the people, we can't agree to any custody." We would like to remind his government and his esteemed ruling party that it is intended to reject the will of the people when we take it to the will of the people in October 2007. Again, we'll have converted the state of the law into an institution that serves itself, into a person's iqbaline, into a person's future. However, it is not the institution, but the legislature, which is in the position that states are essential to a man. This legislature has to see, first of all, the role, a function that has to be moved by precision. Certainly, when the world of today is becoming increasingly distant from central states or the understanding of state, sustainable, accountable, efficient, as it evolves as long as decentralisation structures are based, its powers are not equal to the spirit of history and the process that will crown it and make it strong again by the law, when it takes an infinite, initiative from the will of the people and subject it to a seven-year period of government. It lacks a mindset that can be answered for the problems and hardships of our society. If we can solve the problems and problems of Kurds, Alevis, Armenians, Suryans, others -- who can't find themselves in the Constitution -- and create a will that peoples, cultures, identities can live together in peace, if we can transform that will into a presidential principle of public accountability. With this sensitivity, once again, I wish you all a good evening with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit03spe0212par0400	Thank you, Mr. Iron. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0212par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 53rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks on the bill of the President's Election Act, in 138 rows. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on Article 4 that I am reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the addition of the number of voters in place of the 138th article of the draft law, which is currently in session. Congressmans, now that the motions I'm going to read are in the same context, I'm going to process the motions together. And if they do, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders or get them to read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current presidential election is the fourth time in the Bill of the Law. We respectfully present the removal of the clause from the draft text and the detection of other substances. Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0213par0012	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0212par0013	Government?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0214par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0212par0015	Reşat on the motion Right, Slap Congressman. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0215par0018	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion to remove the 4th article of the President's Election Act, 138 rows under discussion from the draft text of the bill. I salute the High Council. The election period, the beginning of the election period and the completion of elections on the election of the president by the public, was organised on the 101st and 102nd amendments of the Constitution. It is unnecessary and pointless to rewrote the issues that exist in the Constitution and election legislation. So we think it's appropriate that the substance be removed from the text. As it is known, amendments to the law or all legislation are made to meet a social need. The amendment, including five plus five on the presidential election, has previously been passed by parliament, with a public vote. With that law, the term of the legislature is four years. This four-year period has been implemented in the 23rd-century Turkish Grand National Assembly, and no one has objected in this direction. However, when it comes to the presidency, it changes, and there is a new arrangement. This arrangement is very difficult to understand. Now that the President has been accepted by the public to be elected by the people, what are we waiting for? Why are we doing this in two years? It's hard to understand. This is a public insecurity situation. Besides, isn't it rude to the public's will to be replaced by representatives of a text adopted by the public himself in the referendum? We, the National Movement Party, state that the presidential term is five years and that he can run for second time if he wants to. In our current Constitution, we feel that this matter is clearly clear. Because our nation has voted and decided. During the referendum, our people voted for the same time as our current President. To change that is to order a national will is to mislead the people. This bill has come to the agenda of our Parliament because of the strife within the AKP, because of the accounts. Our people are now more concerned with their own agenda than with the presidential election. Our people are facing great economic difficulties. Officers, laborers, farmers, shopkeepers, retired businessmen, struggling to survive in extreme difficulty. In Anatolia, people give up production. Many cities and towns in the inner Anatolian region are largely migrating. People leave their fields, their land, their homes, and move to big cities. The number of lawmakers in most of the cities of Anatolia is constantly dropping. Depending on the decline of the population, we face the closure of municipalities in many municipalities, such as the province of Tokat. The municipalities in the cities of Anatolia must not be closed. In addition to the government, the mayors ask our president to keep an eye on the issue, not to close the municipalities. City services is an improvement. If we as a government are to prevent the collapse of major cities, the migration, we have to work to encourage the return of migration. The suburbs of the big cities are full. They face a number of illegalities, especially drugs. They do all kinds of work to keep their lives going, but in Anatolia, villages are empty, land is empty, production is getting lower and lower. The shortage of production miscarriages has begun. Today we import from various vegetables to fruit. And there's a comeback in livestock. Smallhead, cattle and meat, milk and deli products are imported. Come on, we're discussing the presidential law, but with a new law, we have to eliminate the closing of the municipalities. Our people, especially our mayors, look forward to it. I believe this kind of work will bring that kind of work, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0216par0027	Thank you, Mr. Right. Again, Ahmet Toptaş, MP of Afyonkarahisar, asking for a word on the motions.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0217par0030	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a commitment to the 4th Amendment of the Constitution of the President's Election Act, 138 rows under discussion. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Precious lawmakers, one of the most crucial points of the underprivileged President's Selection Act is the regulation on Constitutional Amendment number 5678, held on 31/5/2007, that the President's mandate is five years and that he can be elected no more than twice. This arrangement is clearly contrary to the Constitution, and there has been no such example of such arrangement in the Supreme Assembly so far, and it is not possible to find the view and the idea that authorises such a practice in constitutional law in universal law nor in doctrine. As we repeatedly stressed as the Republican People's Party during the period of constitutional amendments and referendums, the arrangement on this matter was made as a vague arrangement, especially in accordance with the interpretation and the way the majority wanted it to run. The result of the coalition disputes within the AKP has opened the way for the amendment of the Constitution, as stated above, with this open constitutional arrangement open to interpretation, as needed to prevent Mr. Gül (Muhammad) from running for re-election. Give it up. Persuade Mr. Gül, not to run again, or I am running for President of President Abdullah Gul, my brother of the Prime Minister. As Mr. Gül has nominated Mr. Gül, I am not a candidate, this term is my brother Recep Tayyip Erdogan's candidate. Tell him to say and finish this job. Please don't interfere with the internal disputes of your own party, the Grand Council. Another key point, valued lawmakers, with this bill brought in by the AKP (AKP), has been passed from high-judgment members to members of the district council of parties, from the candidates to the members of the municipal council, that they will be dismissed from their posts on the day the candidate lists are finalised. Is it legal for the Prime Minister to remain in office if the ministers are nominated? So when a district president, an ordinary public official, an officer, a petty officer, and his candidacy is finalized, he will leave his post because he will use the small public authority he holds to his own purpose in the presidential election. We've had a lot of examples of this in the past. In general elections, and in local elections, your applications are clear. We've seen how you've used all the resources of the state, how you've used the televisions that you've created to make the voice of the supporting media and the owner. Now, with this arrangement, you're not going to give state aid to the presidential candidates, you're going to tell them that the public, businessmen or individuals will run this election campaign with their cash donations. We've seen some examples of that, too. Remember which businessman Mr. Prime Minister told you to either side with him or get rid of him. Tomorrow, when a businessman helps a candidate out of the prime minister in campaigns, a businessman will already consider what will happen to that businessman when he is deposited in his bank account. What businessman can help any other candidate other than Mr. Prime Minister in his campaign with cash? Dear friends, we've all seen a lot of painful examples of these together. You may not admit it, but I know that when you're on your own, you're on your conscience. You deceived subcontractors, deceived pensioners, delivered refrigerators to people with no electricity from the Social Welfare Fund, distributed washing machines to people without water, told industry and businessmen to side with them, or to be eliminated. You said, "Be a participant." You scared people with tax control. We know what threats he will face when a person with the Prime Minister's authority, who has the power to carry out his position as Prime Minister, becomes a candidate for President. We've been through this in the local elections, we've been through the general elections. We know these elections won't make a fair president, and you know it. So please give up this kind of relationship. Let Turkey choose a democratic, secular, law-abiding president and support it. I'm asking you to reconsider whether the President, who will be elected in such manipulations, will be respected in this country. Good evening. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0218par0040	Thank you, Mr. Topstone. I submit the same motions to your votes:
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0219par0042	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0220par0043	We've started the vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0218par0044	You said that after the vote, Mr. Vural. ... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the addition of the number of voters in place of the 138th amendment's 4th amendment. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0221par0051	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0218par0052	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0222par0053	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0218par0054	This is Özdal Threeer, Van MP, requesting a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0223par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. As MP, we salute the General Assembly when we receive a pledge on this bench. I'd like to start by greeting the General Assembly. I'd like to come to this Parliament at the will of the nation and emphasize how important it is to be treated by the government's authorities, who have been personally appointed by this Parliament, and to be attacked by public officials who have served under their orders, to be granted the will of the people, often face-to-face, to be cared for by the will of the people. Of course, it's important that the representative democratic system be passed directly from the democratic system to the President's election through a public vote on the election of the President through the representational legislature arithmetic. It would be more democratic if it was possible for the public to determine the president's candidacy. As we use the word "democratic" in most legislations, we often express the principle of democracy as part of Article 2 of the Constitution in Turkey, and a more advanced democratic process is coming into the structure that the government states is the model of democracy. In fact, it's not a democratization law study, but an AKP political project, a project to prepare certain authorities for someone else, if you ask anyone in the public now. So I'm going to say that one is an arrangement to secure the presidential seat and that the Parliament's work, which is actually much more qualified to represent the will of the people directly, is actually a little bit -- because it violates the Constitution -- you're in violation of the Constitution when it comes to it, you're in violation of the Constitution, you're in violation of the Constitution, you're yelling at us, and you're in violation of the Constitution. But you're doing it today as you've been violating the Constitution, which is why you've been attacking us so many times. So everyone knows it's a theater, a study to make Erdogan President. As an individual, I say this: I don't have the heart of preparing the floor of the presidential office for someone who has signed all kinds of work on the damage of all the populations, because of the ten years of your power in Turkey. I know there are millions of people who don't digest it, and I hope it'll be as hard for him to see the presidency as it is for him to see the back of his neck. Every time I'm on the stand, I'm talking about the Van earthquake. Hundreds of thousands of people were victims, hundreds of people... and each minister took a pledge on the platforms in order to say what was necessary was done in the Van earthquake. Of course, we refer it to the public's conscience, but the deaths continue as a result of tent fires, the number of people living on the edge of hunger and misery is increasing day by day, the tradesman crying for the fulfillment of promises given to him, the problems of education, the problems of health have increased so much that it is impossible to describe. It is also a problem for people who have been immigrated by the governorship and distributed to different provinces, to be subjected to racial attacks in Silifke, Aksaray, different provinces, and to remain silent by state officials. The earthquake was a natural disaster, but what happened to the Van people...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0224par0065	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0225par0066	Thank you, Mr. Threeer. I will submit the motion to your votes, but I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... Since there's a discrepancy between the clerk members, I'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 5 that I make read: Turkey's Grand National Assembly to Mr. President The current presidential election is 5th in the Bill of the Legislature. We respectfully present the removal of the clause from the draft text and the detection of other substances. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 5th article of the current Presidential Election Act be removed from the draft text, since it is clearly in violation of Article 38 of the Constitution's relevant Articles and Article 38 of the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 5 of the current bill 138 rows from the text. Since the motions are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Does Mr. Commission agree with the motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0226par0082	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0225par0083	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0227par0084	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0225par0085	Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who wants a word on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0228par0087	Mr. President, I have been promised to explain our thoughts in our motion on the Fifth Amendment of the President's Election Act. I salute you all. At the beginning of my words, I honor the late Rauf Denktas, the guide of Turkish Cypriotism, and ask for mercy from Gabriel, and my condolences to his family and to our beloved nation. With this motion, we propose that Article 5 be removed from the draft text. This substance contains some risks for our political system, the possibility of corruption. In the globalized world, NATO, the OSCE, can always decide on a number of peace-seeking military interventions, and our government within these units, along with those decisions, can share these decisions. Especially countries in remote geography and Turkey could easily be on the brink of war. It is now possible to say that such possibilities may be common in the future. In Article 78 of our Constitution, Parliamentary elections have been rescinded due to the war. Since there has never been an option for ending national will in democracies, ending in recess, or suspending parliaments, which are where the national will is established, this possibility, in fact, is never seen as an option, in the constitutions, where parliaments are highly exceptional -- which is the state of war in our system -- the election can be postponed for a year. There should be no broad comment on this issue, and if there is no such thing in the Constitution, there should be no pressure to regulate it with the law. If the exception to the fulfillment of the national will is opened to other regulations that are lower in the hierarchy of laws or laws, you will also be able to embezzle the embezzlement of the Constitution, which should only be organised in the Constitution, thus making it easy to change a lot of the adoptions that are in order. Constitutions should not be changed and cannot be easily changed, and they must be maintained. Clearly, the 5th article carries the bill in comparison to a state the Constitution has only envisioned for Parliament. A norm that is not in the Constitution is tried to be filled with a broad interpretation of the law, which clearly violates the Constitution. When we voiced these criticisms in the Commission, the representative of the government, Mr. Bozdağ, said that the criticism could be justified, and that there is now a gap in the Constitution, and that even this exceptional situation should be organised in predictions. As the National Movement Party, we can participate in this assessment, but it's the way this arrangement is being arranged that we disagree. In the 2010 constitutional amendment bill, the government did not bring this arrangement before parliament and the people. The President's mandate has been left out by the government so far. It is not consistent that today this arrangement is being tried by a law. As the National Movement Party, we believe that the amendment to this arrangement is in line with the general principles of the law, the authoritarian quality of the Constitution, and our political understanding. The public knows that the changes to the Constitution have been made, and that the Compromise Commission is making an effort to change the Constitution. Come on, let's fix this change, this deficiency in the Constitutional Amendment bill. And I don't think there's a strategic deficit for today, because it's clear to us who's going to take over the presidency when the term of office is complete. As you know, this office is the Speaker of Parliament according to the 106th Amendment of our Constitution. The Regent has all the authority of the noble. As a matter of fact, the Constitution says that this issue is clearly stated, and in order not to violate certain legal values, I say that I look forward to your support for our proposal to remove the 5th article from the bill, which means opening doors to abuses, and I salute the great assembly.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0229par0094	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Huseyin Aygün, the Tunceli MP who wanted to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ayday.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0230par0098	Dear friends, good evening, compliments to the General Assembly. Throughout this bill, the criticism of all parties, all opposition groups, and of all the friends involved here is almost identical. The General Assembly, the meeting here, supposedly reflects the national will, but the text where the national will was formed as a result of a referendum vote two years ago, is being tried to be replaced as usual by a law, which is not appropriate today. I'm afraid that's what I'm talking about. Although the Constitution has very clear emphasises on the 77th and 78th amendments, there is also a change in the Constitution. I'm criticizing this like friends before me. We don't find that necessary, but first we see it as an attempt against national will. By national will, of course, the government, who has said loudly for ten years that it has destroyed custody of this issue, that it has formed a new democratic regime, has done so in a much more violent way, especially for its own benefit, after the 2010 referendum, and has succeeded. But something very interesting has happened, by the way. Turkey is already such a strange country that a murder of 34 people, including children, is no longer on the country's agenda today. Yesterday, the Hrant Dink case, which has been on this country's agenda for five years, has resulted in the decision that it is not an organization, and it has been described as a despicable murder. Tomorrow we will protest him in Istanbul, where even the deaf sultan has heard that it was a planned murder involving government suspects, public officials, governors, governors, county gendarmes, regimental commanders, but unfortunately the court has not heard of it and has once again disappointed those who want justice by its verdict. If you remember, when Hrant was killed, the Armenian diaspora said that a court cannot judge this in Turkey, and even if it does judge it, it can't go fair. But would you look at the painting that appeared five years later, friends, no public official involved in the case has been investigated, who has said in court for five years that he was an intelligence officer of the gendarmes and the police, he was acquitted, he was not convicted of Hrant's murder. The ones who were acquitted in the incident are more likely to be punished than the ones who were. In fact, even Ogun Samast (Samast) has been released, according to a statement of judgment. So from this angle, you know, I remember how angry we were with what the diaspora said that day, and I want to write down how disappointed we all were with the painting that came out today. Again -- the last week is very strange -- to the Kenan Universe and Tahsin Şahinkaya, they've been sued now as they've been hooked up with serums, to stage a coup, to torture 650,000 people, to tag 2 million people, to throw out 30,000 citizens, and to shut down the Parliament we're talking about. They will be tried on April 4th, but, meanwhile, Turkey's society, which has followed the trial of these powerful generals without arrest with a huge lack of reaction, is not thrilled, and is among them 350 former Chiefs of Staff -- watching with caution and terror. We'd like to present this to the General Assembly's appreciation. Again, the verdict... our Minister of Justice was here, and I wish he had been found and listened. The Diyarbakır Special Prosecutor's Office, for example, has given secrecy to the incident in Roboski and Bujeh. It's not citizens in Diyarbakır, they're heart-burned mothers, we don't even know how that investigation was conducted, who was killed, how the bombers were killed, because the file was closed after what processes went through the button. We don't even have the authority to intervene. Therefore, when you say "national will," you should not only judge by the votes you have received -- please -- that an investigation should be carried out fairly, that all sides of a case will be satisfied. Unfortunately, none of this ever happens, and court decisions are usually struck on the ground when it goes against our group interests. In this regard, I must say that this initiative is a negative one. I'd like to honor Denktas and Lefter, and I would like to remind the General Assembly that Lefter said two or three years ago, at the age of eighty-seven, that when there were September 6th, he said that he would not speak if the machine was turned off. I wish you'd consider that, too. After the Hrant incident, I ask you to reconsider how the Armenian citizens of Turkey live. Thank you so much for listening.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0231par0107	Thank you. Nazmi Gür, MP.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0232par0109	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This institution, under this roof, we're trying to create Turkey's future, the future of our people, the law that we've created, the laws that we've made, we're trying to direct. Of course, the law is necessary for everyone. Like democracy, like universal rights and freedoms, for everyone, one day you'll all need law. I think it's best that he knows that the law is not done according to person, group, party, class, you must be the valued lawmakers under this roof in this House. So, with a law that we're trying to make, a law that we're trying to make about the President's election and mandate, it's likely that this study, this draft that we've come up with, is contrary to universal law, especially to the Constitution of September 12th, the whole world is watching us. Of course, speaking of universal law, we're all aware that the limits of universal law are the limits of democracy in that country. Just as the Prime Minister always talks about advanced democracy. If law is so violated in one country, if law is so ignored in one country, of course there is no mention of democracy, especially advanced democracy in that country. If mentioned, there could be talk of an AKP sultanship, a AKP sultan, even an AKP fascism. There are three basic examples that we're going to show you. It's been very hot, and it's happened in the last few days. First, the cause of the beloved Hrant. Of course, the courts -- in the nail -- the independent judiciary seems to have concluded this case, but as the lawyers say, we also promise Hrant. In front of his saintly memory, this case will not end here, this case will continue. This case, of course, will return from Strasbourg. Dear friends, the third example is the Roboski massacre - 34 civilians killed by bombing Turkish fighter planes in Uludere. What did the Prime Minister say in his statement 24 hours later? We got four hours of footage. The prosecutor who's continuing the investigation -- you've read it to the press today -- he wants these images, and he can't predict when they're going to be delivered to them, and he can't, because he knows it's never going to happen to them, and the world knows that the world doesn't know that the public knows that the people who are holding on to this four-hour image, taking the Roboski massacre and maybe the transplant footage of this massacre, neither the prosecutor or the forces behind the investigation of these events, of course. However, it is good to say that the Roboski massacre is now on the agenda of the world, and I assure you that the account of 34 people killed there will be one by one, and those who ordered it in Roboski, those who pulled the trigger in Roboski, those who committed the massacre in Roboski, even if they were not all tried before this law, those who committed this massacre in front of history and in front of the human conscience will surely be prisoners. The third important issue, dear friends, of course, is that I hope the police won't knock on your door one day, but the home of our MPs, lawmakers, a member of this Parliament is being raided, his computer is being confiscated, and hopefully one day your house will not be knocked on, and you will not live in fear of this police state. You've always played the victim, and now you're playing the tyrant, but we declare to you that we will never kneel in the face of this persecution, and we will resist to the end, that you will never intimidate us under the name of TK arrests, and I give you respect.
tbmm-2012-01-18sit04spe0233par0116	[[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Thank you. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Members of parliament, due to the completion of our working time, it is 13 p.m. on Thursday (January 19th 2012) to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
