tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement is from Yozgat MP Ertugrul Soysal, who asked for the appointment of 24 March World Tuberculosis Day. Here you are, Mr. Soysal.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to honor the honorable MPs on March 24th, Tuberculosis Day. I salute your high council and our beloved nation. TB is a respiratory disease created by mycobacterium tuberculosis. Despite the fact that tuberculosis in the world and Turkey is as old as human history, it still remains a public health issue throughout the world. According to World Health Organization reports, about one third of the world's population today is infected with tuberculosis. At some point in their lives, there is a chance that 10% of these people will be exposed to consumption. The World Health Organization states that around 9 million people worldwide suffer from tuberculosis every year and that in 2010 1.5 million people die from this disease. All over the world, the highest areas of TB are Africa and South East Asia, where prevalence and mortality are the highest. TB is a disease that causes the most death, even though it has a cure and only one factor in the world. Turkey's success in treatment for new spread positives in 2009 is 91 per cent. Turkey's World Health Organization ranks third in the ranking of success among 53 countries in the European region on the success of treatment in new spread events. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the TB war in our country is being carried out within the framework of the World Health Organization's directly supervised treatment strategy and the Stop Tuberculosis Strategy. In order to achieve the goals of the Stop Tuberculosis Strategy, new activities have been carried out by the Ministry regarding TB combat services. In 2009, they were trained in vocational development training, and in 2009 43 physicians were trained in 2010, and in 2011 they were introduced as part of a certified training programme, and 181 physicians were certified. The infrastructure needed to control national tuberculosis is run by our Ministry of Human Resources, Budget and Program. As part of the Health Transformation Programme, which we have successfully implemented in our country, our Ministry continues its Tuberculosis control services in co-operation with national and international organisations. On 10 June 2010, our office of the Tuberculosis Stopping Partnership was appointed to create a world without tuberculosis. Our Ministry is very concerned about working with private sectors and volunteer organizations in public practice for tuberculosis. In 2010, the Joint Action Work was carried out in Turkey, with the participation of our Office presidency and relevant public organisations and NGOs. In accordance with the World Health Organization's proposals, this study aims to unite our ministry, relevant public institutions and NGOs in the fight against tuberculosis. The TB Guide for Diagnosis Diagnosis and Treatment has been prepared throughout our country in order to meet the required standards for the diagnosis and treatment. As part of the study and information work of TB patients, the book The Rights and Responsibility of Verification Patients and Patients is prepared. In order to improve data quality and fullness, to make sure the program's monitoring and evaluation is immediate, and thus strengthen the National TB program, our presidency is about to complete the construction of the Electronic Tuberculosis Management System, and the pilot was scheduled to be implemented in 2012. Dear friends, the Ministry of Health, as of this day, is currently conducting tuberculosis services with 16 breast disease hospitals, including 196 TBs, 22 districts of TB labs, 4/4 and research hospitals, and all the other first, second, third step health institutions and institutions. The Health Transformation Programme and the quality of health care offered in our country have been improved, patient satisfaction improved, and health care efficiency and efficiency have been upgraded to high levels. As a result of our health - understanding activities for everyone, green card, SEC, BUG-KUR, retired and civil servants, all of our tuberculosis patients are easily accessible to health care. In our country, the diagnosis and treatment of tuberculosis is free of charge. The first and second option used in treatment are TB medicines, which are free of consumption wars. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you, Mr. Soysal. Congressmans, I condemned the attack on Mr. Turk yesterday, and I wish him well. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Adıyaman MP Salih Fırat, who wants to talk about Adıyaman's problems. Here you are, Mr. Firat.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0004par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book agreement on the issues of our Adıyaman province. I salute your high council. Adıyaman was a province of Malatya in 1954, but during the past period Adıyaman became a town that was stuck in the surrounding provinces, stuck in the middle of nowhere. As you know, after the Ataturk Dam was built, Adıyaman was cut off from the east, and the Nissibi Bridge will be built in Adıyaman for years. Again, 60 percent of our province of Adıyaman deals with farming and agriculture. Only 16 per cent of irrigable land can be watered. The largest livelihood of our Adıyaman province was tobacco bread while dealing with this agriculture. As it is known, tobacco has been banned since 2000, but it is not planted, but due to the lack of watery agriculture, citizens of our citizens, Adıyaman, have become the city that exports farms all over Turkey. Turkey's first season association of workers was founded in Adıyaman, Turkey's first unemployed association. Adıyaman has been sending workers to Turkey all over Turkey, to the Black Sea to the nuts, to the Inner Anatolia, to the potatoes, to Çukurova to the cotton, to the cotton, again, to the cotton, after the GAP, to Şanlıurfa. Since adıyaman was banned from planting tobacco in Adıyaman, an alternative crop has not yet been developed, Adıyaman has three times the average unemployed population in Turkey; there is about 30 per cent unemployment rate; again, Adıyaman has become poor. In Adıyaman, there are 52 per cent of green cards, which means 52 per cent of the population live under the poverty, the hunger limit. In Adıyaman again, you know, 30 per cent of Turkey's crude oil is being removed. The unemployment rate continues because Adıyaman was not built as a refinery. In Adıyaman, there are actually very good tourist sites: Nemrut, Perre caves, Turush caves, Günceskaya caves, Sofraz monuments. But since there was no publicity, he was also behind in tourism. We're left with a Nemrod, which we've recently been working to deliver to our Malatya province. So all of Adıyaman's possessions, all of his treasures, and all of his possessions are being plundered, and there is no stopping him.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0005par0037	We don't, we don't.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0004par0038	Thank you. If not, thank you. Adıyaman has recently become a textile centre, but since Adıyaman has been relocated, he does not invest in Adıyaman. Many of our textile industrialists have moved their investments to other cities, causing a great deal of trouble. Nevertheless, most of our workers who work in textiles or other jobs work with a minimum wage, which is a big problem, so even for minimum wage, our people can't find work, 50 percent of minimum wage, and 30 per cent work. Yes, AKP Power, you know, in the last ten years, Adıyaman has had the most votes in Turkey, so Adıyaman is usually in the top three provinces, but despite that, there is nothing being done to Adıyaman, whether it's in investment, double road, or other things. Look, in the double road incident, Adıyaman-Katta is a total of 92km between Adıyaman-Gölbaş; it has not been completed in ten years; but our surrounding provinces, Gaziantep, Malatya, Kahramanmarash, Şanlıurfa, most of their routes to our borders have completed the double route of 90 per cent, but the AKP Power still does not give Adıyaman. The people of Adıyaman have poverty on their agenda, unemployment, hunger, poverty.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0006par0043	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0004par0044	The people of Adıyaman don't have 4+4+4 on their agenda, our people don't have such weird laws on their agenda. Our people want food, they want work. I salute the High Council, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0007par0047	Thank you, Mr. Firat. In the name of the government, the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs will respond. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0008par0050	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to respond to Mr. CHP MP Salih Fırat's non-responsibility speech. I salute you all, sir. First of all, Adıyaman is a province we really love. Also, I'd like to express my great pleasure to be an honorary citizen of the place, from the time of former General Manager. Basically, my deputy says there was no investment in the name. I've just taken investments in Adıyaman from all institutions. By the end of 2011 -- by the end of 2011 -- I didn't get this year -- there's an investment of $1.5 billion, which is 1.5 quadrillion central government -- not the current administration. Look, it's just that during our Ministry of Environment and Forestry -- I don't add investments this year -- $276,500,000 -- about 300 trillion was invested. Look what we've done. Now he says: "Nothing has been done in my area. " Sir, there is a great production of cotton there now. In fact, at one time, I went to Pinegazi Waters, which meant that the citizens were extremely pleased with cotton production. Now that we've watered the pumps at Samsat, we've watered the 28,060 acres. We also watered 80 thousand acres with pinegasic watering and deregulation facilities. Other than that, Adıyaman had a drinking water problem, you know, Mr. Deputy, for years. It was a really difficult project, but despite all the difficulties, we brought drinking water to Adıyaman from 33,771 meters away. There, we delivered 15,000 cubic metres of storage and all the facilities related to it to our municipality on 11/11/2011, using the main Jesus distribution lines. I mean, it's been something to look forward to for years. So right now, we've planned the drinking water problem until the year 2050 of Adıyaman, and we've solved it. When this water came to Adıyaman, the Adıyaman municipality also said: "Make a link between two warehouses. We also did that. Even though it's not our mission, we've completed the facility, which is 3,155 metres long and has numerous art structures, evacuation rooms. Other than the pumping watering of Gerger Lakeyurt villages, the lake's village of Yarbaşı, the lake's lake, the lake's watering of pumps... In Adıyaman, there was a security problem.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0009par0058	Malatya, too, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0008par0059	Look, we've reformed 19 streams, 19 of them. Look, I'll tell you: Besni Three-Eyes town Kurudere, Gene Besni district center, Dere of Silver (Pınarbaş) Deresi, Gerger Τde Gölürt village and the flood protection facility of its lands, Kahta Deresi and Ganigenik rivers of Kahta district center of Kahta district, Çelikhan district rivers, Çelikhan district, also construction on the protection of the district's central area of Çelikhan, the construction of supplies for the protection of the city's borough, Belören village in Lakebaş, Kuru Dere of Hurriyet in the lakebast, Samsat. The part was requested, and we've completed it. We have completed the rehabilitation of Çelikhan districts of Aren Deresi, the happy village of Çelikhan, the flood of Karachay and Baran creeks, the construction of the river reforms. Also, in Çelikhan, Aren Creek, II. We've done the supply construction in the section. At the lakehead, Yemisen and Centipede Rivers III. Section overload and vision control, creek correction complete. In the town of Pýnarbaşı, the city of Çopur Creek was finished with the flood of vision control, the river reforms. Look, it's not over. At the moment, a huge project is called Project Tetintepe. Projects on this are over. Hopefully this year, we'll put him in the investment program, and this is a great dam that will give life not only to Adıyaman, but also to Kahramanmarash, and Gaziantep. We'll move on to the construction contract for the dam next to complete its work. Also, it's Cove-Samsat Pumping Water 2. We're going to water 83,370 acres with section construction. I hope this is done quickly. We're doing eight river reforms right now. They've got groundwatering projects. Adıyaman Gerger County, we're going to supply the pump watering of the lakeyurt village. We're finishing the Range Pond this year. We'll complete the Hasancik Pond. Also, from here, Congressman, I'd like to give you the good news that there are two dams that have been waiting for 60 years. One of them is the Kokali Dam and the other is the Burial Dam. Now, sir, here's a quick piece of information about these: In fact, in 2011, the Kokali Dam was ordered to do so as soon as possible -- on the orders of our Prime Minister. But three times we've been auctioned off to do this project and planning. Unfortunately, no one was involved in the tender -- so many companies had jobs. But we did something that we'd never done, and we said, "I'll totally help you with that, so let the DSI headquarters do it their own way." After all, the planning report is done, thank God. And now, on 14/12/2011, we have the project contract. Hopefully, as soon as the project is over -- the money is ready -- we'll have the happiness of building the Kokali Dam. Also, Burial. And the burial is a very important dam. We've targeted the watering of 74,210 acres. Especially the Pinegazi Dam. The planning report was also prepared and completed. Hopefully, we'll get his project done and bring him in. Also, the Bigchay, the Steelhan watering revision. Also in Çelikhan, work continues on the construction of the drinking water isale line, watering pumps from the Ataturk Dam. Other than that, we have now scheduled six ponds and watering in Adıyaman. The total irrigation area of these is 17.110. Look, this is the first time I've ever given you the good news. Lakehead Balkar Pond and watering, Lakebaşin Steel Pond and watering, Central Akçeli I pond and watering, Central Akçalı II pond and watering, Akçalı Lake Akcanar and watering in Besni, Akpınar pond and watering in Besni, Sincik Not just the waterworks, but our Forest General Directorate is there, see, by the end of 2011, he worked in the land of 564,700 demarcation and introduced 34 million saplings to land in our Adıyaman province. O.R.C.O.D. studies continue. By the end of last year, we provided about six million euros for the 2.808 families. We're increasing the support this year. We built one city forest in Adıyaman. We've set up three forest resorts, one for the development of the economy, for the first time in the jungle. These are really important. Other than that, some of the erosion and deforestation efforts related to the Ataturk Dam continue rapidly. We've completed four. They're working on it right now. Now, Mount Nimrut National Park, we can't possibly take him anywhere else. Some of them are in Malatya, but most of them are in Adıyaman. We know that. So we are willing to do whatever it takes.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0010par0075	Is Malatya going to open up or not?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0008par0076	If you guys have any suggestions, we'll take your offer into consideration. We'll do whatever it takes together, don't worry. Other than that, our meteorology General Directorate, look, has set up four automated meteorological measuring stations that have never happened before. We have set up four automated meteorological measuring stations, including Adıyaman, Lakehead, Kahta and Nissibi Bridge, on the Kahta side. Now three more have been requested. In 2012, I instructed all three locations to set up an automated weather station. These are about to be Steelhan, Besni and Gerger. Other than that, when I was Minister of the Environment and the Forest, I gave financial support to municipalities for both decontamination and solid waste disposal facilities in Adıyaman. Of course, the Health Department works there. Look, the Ministry of Health made an investment of 145,234 euros by the end of last year, offering 18 health clinics and 1 state hospital in Adıyaman. The Ministry of National Education -- you know, in 2006 15 new units opened up within Adıyaman University, including faculty, institutes, conservatorys and vocational institutes. Also, the construction of 1,453 classrooms has been completed. As in Adıyaman Province, books go for free. I was wondering how many books you sent by the end of last year. I read the exact number: 11 million, 667, 166 free textbooks sent to Adıyaman. Before, people bought them with money. You mentioned the Department of Transport. Sir, the Ministry of Transport is competing with us right now in Adıyaman. Look, he invested 223 million dollars by the end of 2011. So, what did he do? He built 97 kilometers of divided roads and offered them to Adıyaman. Of course there's something to be done. Hopefully we'll follow this together, along with you and our other deputies. I'll make every effort with you to get the missing bridges and other roads completed as soon as possible. TOKI... 3,108 dwellings are being built under 17 projects. Was there a TOKI there before? No. 90% of these have been completed. Our Ministry of Agriculture has given Adıyaman the greatest support. Look, from 2003 to the end of 2011, as agricultural support, our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism -- please pay attention to the figure -- has given a total of 497 million and 300,000 dollars, so about 500 trillion agricultural support, that's really important. At the same time, Adıyaman had supported villages for drinking water, roads and sewers, at least 100 trillion euros, as well as over 100 trillion euros, as well as the Association for Bringing Service to the Villages, as well as the KYODES and BELDES. Of course, I know there's a lot to be done in Adıyaman, but I know what Adıyaman was like, and I know what he is now. Adıyaman has become a truly European city, a great city, we are proud of Adıyaman, but there are things to do, of course, that are incomplete. It's our duty to do that, too. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0011par0088	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Adana MP Muharrem Varlı, who wants to talk about the problems of irrigation troops. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0012par0093	Mr. President, I've been promised off-the-tops about the problems of irrigation troops. On this occasion, I salute you all. For many years, the irrigation troops had been trying to live their lives autonomously, trying to do what they had to do with the money they had collected from the farmers in their own way. However, last year, the problems of irrigation troops began to grow as if they were being replaced by Law number 5620, which your government issued. One of them is the recruitment of seasonal workers. Of course, it's important to the workers that the seasonal workers are on staff, and we don't deny it, it's important that our workers are on staff, but the irrigation troops have gone into financial trouble in that sense. And if you lay this financial burden on the backs of the irrigation troops, if they wash it on the back of the farmer, the farmers will be crushed, the irrigation troops will be crushed. Here, the government must provide financial support for the irrigation troops. Again, you gave it to the DSI administration to determine the success of the presidents of the troops or the troops. According to what criteria will the DSI administration reveal that troops have been successful or failed? If the Union presidents failed, if the troops failed, you also authorized the removal of the Union's presidents and authorized the DSI to approve the funding of the troops. So the DSI began to form a claim on the troops, and there was a politicalisation, unfortunately, that came to the attention. So, like everywhere else, unfortunately, you've established an obligation to eliminate autonomy in the irrigation units, to connect you with the management of the irrigation troops, and you've led to politicalism. Because, in this sense, the heads of the irrigation unit are bowing to all kinds of DSI bureaucrats, thinking they're going to fail. My dear friends, again, even though the presidents have a two-year term, you have brought a reelection requirement. So by September 2012, the heads of watering units have to re-election. They've got two more years. The same thing is, you've changed the law on the presidential process seven years. You said the presidency is seven years. But even though the heads of the watering union were elected, when you passed this law, you said you'd choose again, even though they were elected. This is a double standard, one of the major problems of irrigation troops. Again, the assembly of the troops determined the watering fees that the troops set from farmers per acre; they were appointing elected people, people who knew the area; and now you have this authority, you have given it to the DSI bureaucrats. In accordance with the DSI bureaucrats' report to the government, the price will be set at its price. And that will cause our farmers to suffer because there will be a report and a price to be made by people who don't know the area, who don't know the area. Our farmers, who are now struggling to pay 13 million liras, 17 million liras, who have already been wiped out by the gas input, by the compost input, will be under a new strain by the increase in these irrigation fees. You have to change that, and you have to make arrangements in that sense. And speaking of farmers again -- Mr. Minister here, who's about to answer my question -- right now, the Zaraat Bank is giving us interest-free loans. Or we've dropped interest rates too much. Yeah, Farm Bank can't give loans right now, they can't give loans, friends, farmers can't get loans from Agriculture Bank. You cut the odds so low that the farmer couldn't get credit for what he planted, what he planted. Please, I'm warning the government authorities to find a solution as soon as possible, remove the farmer's misery. I also want to point out that Mr. Secretary Adıyaman said that cotton was planted in Adıyaman. That's right, there's a lot of cotton in Çukurova, but we can't sell cotton. Right now, the DAP fertilizer, which is 1846 fertilizers, is worth more than the price of cotton, can't sell 3 kilos of wheat and buy 1 kilo of fertilizer, our farmer. I mean, you're always saying, "Where are you from? Where are you going?" That's right, where you've brought the country from. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0013par0103	Thank you, Mr Varli. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Metiner, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Oğan, Mr. Firat and Mr. Steel, you've entered the system, but I'm afraid I can't promise.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0014par0106	Won't the Minister answer?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0013par0107	I asked the Minister, he won't answer. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition, we offer the Constitution's 98th Amendment, Interior Charter 104 and 105th Articles to investigate the problems of our country's potato producers, to address the production shortages, to assess and market solutions to our farmer's production problems, to determine and address the measures that need to be taken, and to address the arrangements to be made regarding them. The main potato production regions of our country are Central Anatolia, the Black Sea, the Aegean and the Northeast Anatolian regions. As far as cities are concerned, the cities where the production was heavily produced are Niğde, Nevşehir, İzmir, Afyon and Bolu, respectively. Despite its cheapness, more efficiency than the unit area, its food value is high, its digestion, its use in various ways, and its growing in all kinds of climates, in recent years the production of potatoes and potatoes in our country has been constantly dwindling. One of the most important factors affecting potato efficiency is the use of reformed seeds. Unfortunately, because there are no investments and studies needed by the state and the private sector, this seed, which is a potato, is imported from European countries, particularly Germany, to very high prices, is an important cost factor for the manufacturer. Large warehouses that fit the standards of the produced potatoes are small, and the manufacturer's ability to build storage is short, and about 10% of the product's storage time has been lost. Although potato consumption is increasing day by day, the manufacturer has sold the product he has produced for almost the same price over the past five years. In 2002, the manufacturer was forced to sell the potato's weight for an average of 30 cents, while on average today it is difficult to sell it for 35 cents. In this period, however, the increase in fertilizer and diesel prices, making the most important input cost in the production of potatoes, has increased by close to three times. Electric energy and seed costs used in agricultural irrigation have also increased significantly in this period. Potato producers have been unable to pay their debts in time because of the rise in input costs and the lack of the right price of the product produced, due to the high rate of delays imposed by these loans, banks and TEDAS. In particular, thousands of potato producers in Niğde and Nevşehir have been put to work for TEDAS due to their debt, including the planter who can't sell his product, and the farm that he farms to get rid of. A parliamentary investigation must be launched to determine the measures to be taken to address the above-level problems. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[Antalya]] [[Inconceived]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 12) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[Kastamon]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Solomon Nevzat does not fear [[Isparta]] 20) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Adana]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We investigate the illegal and crooked construction of the Bosporus and propose and propose the establishment and establishment of a Parliamental Research Commission under the Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitution 98 and Civil Law. The Strait of Istanbul is important on the scale of the world with its strategic location, its natural beauty and historical values. The city of Istanbul has been one of the greatest and most beautiful cities in the world in all ages, thanks to its Bosphorus. To protect the Bosphorus region, which gave Istanbul its beauty, the Bosporus Law was adopted in 1983 and founded in 1984 based on the law. A total of 1,500 hectares are covered by the Bosphorus, which is designated as the site area. The Bosporus Building Directorate has been identified as the Bosphorus Presumation Area, Sarıyer, Beşiktaş. Beykoz and Üskudar districts have a total of 4,635 hectares. The Bosphorus area borders from the Centralköy Mosque on the European side to the Rumeli Lantern on the Anatolian coast from the Skopjedar Vapur Pier to the Anatolian Lantern. The rear view and affected areas that affect the Bosporus skyline are within the jurisdiction of the municipalities of the district. There are approximately 29,000 buildings in the jurisdiction of the Boğaziçi Building Directorate. Three thousand of these buildings have been identified as fugitives and must be destroyed, and the decree of destruction was issued by the Council of the İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality in 2007. But so far, the destruction has not been done. There are also around 6,600 slums in the Bosphorus The Bosphorus has illegal structures from public institutions and institutions to sports clubs, luxury villas, treasures, even slums built on other individuals' property. There are different reasons why it can't be prevented from being built against the laws of the Bosporus. These reasons include the gaps in the Development Plan and the Bosphorus Development Law, allowing local politicians to tolerate illegal construction, bribing and reminiscence, new structures, or preventing destruction. In previous years, a new development plan and a new law study were reflected in media organs by the Ministry of Public Works and Housing to prevent illegal and distorted construction in Boğaziçi, but no progress has been made. In order to free the world's pearl, Bosporus, from ugly and illegal construction and determine the legal and administrative measures that need to be taken, our Constitution is 98 and 104 and 105. We propose and supply the establishment of a Parliamentary Research Commission according to the clauses. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Elazığ]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] [[Inconceived]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] 15) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Manisa]] 19) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Kastamon]] 21) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Adana]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Given the intensity of the young population and the rate of population in our country, in order to ensure the food safety of our citizens and to leave a habitable country for future generations, we offer the state of our agricultural land today, the opening and offering the opening of the Constitution under the framework of international co-operation agreements or by the basis of how many of them are sold to foreign countries, persons and institutions, or for long-term use. It is expressed by experts that it takes 400 years to form an inch of soil, and that it needs at least 60 cm of soil thickness to make agriculture, which is that the agricultural land is formed in 20 to 25,000 years. Many countries around the world have been known to resort to buying or renting agricultural land from all over the world to feed their population, due to the fluctuations in food prices in recent years, which have been financially strong, but lack of adequate farmland. Recent reports in the domestic and external media indicate that our country's farmland is also among the target areas of these countries. In this area, one-third of our population, economic policies have been implemented in recent years, and agriculture has been used to exploit it, and domestic and foreign trade movements have been staged against agriculture, and capital transfers from agricultural sectors to other sectors have been carried out by the state. The manufacturer was forced to leave the sector, unable to produce with low price clamps for high interest and input costs. Despite its vital importance to our country, institutional identity and protection measures adopted in past years have been removed through privatisation and excessive liberal practices, and the Turkish farmer, unable to complete his own economic organisation against domestic and external markets, has been driven into debt by competition in world markets, the EU, the United States, and even the Far East, with producers who have been overproduced in some agricultural goods. As a result of these policies, unfortunately, our country has fallen back to the category of countries importing agricultural products from countries capable of self-sustaining agricultural production. The production of sufficient food is among the most important conditions of the concept of "food safety" defined by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), which ensures stable distribution of this sufficient food and secure access to these foods, both economically and physically. Studies show that the potential of agricultural land in our country is 28 million hectares, that about 18 million hectares are used for agricultural purposes, but the remaining amount is rapidly being built as an industrial and housing area, and that it is not clear how much of it is being used by foreign institutions and institutions. Therefore, it is necessary for our country to get inventory of agricultural land across the country, how much of the public is saving the producers, how much of it is being sold to foreign countries, persons and institutions through the framework of international co-operation agreements or through real and legal persons, or to develop new agricultural policies for our country's food safety. A parliamentary investigation must be opened to determine the measures to be taken to address the above-resolved problems. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Elazığ]] [[Antalya]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Inconceived]] [[Erzurum]] 12) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Kastamon]] 19) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Adana]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Party of Peace and Democracy has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. 28.03.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Wednesday 28,03,2012 (today), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. On 2 March 2012, İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel and his friends gave (673 rows no. lu) has been recommended to be read in the presentations Wednesday (April 28,03,2012), in the same date, before other motions to be submitted to the Parliamentary Research Council of Turkey for the information of the General Assembly, in order to investigate the problems facing systematic violence, abuse and sexual abuse of children in juvenile prisons. Ertugrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP who has asked for the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0015par0290	Dear friends, Mr. President, we've made several other suggestions in the same manner before, and you've refused them, you know. But despite all these rejections, we have two concrete indicators. All of this has to make you think about why we should set up a commission like this once again. Karim Yıldız, Ahmet Salih Dal, Abdurrahim Akdağ, Murat Yıldırım as members of the Criminals Review Commission in Osmaniye Prison, our friends from the AKP Group have shown them enough of why the research proposals they had previously rejected were necessary, and I see no need to add anything. The other thing was that it was an outrage at the Pharmaceutical Children's Punishment and Execution Agency. Our Ministry of Justice closed this prison, so it was thought that after this disgrace, there was no problem in Turkey's prisons in general, there was a problem in Posanti Prison, which was done through transport. However, F. The same treatments that G.L. is now facing in Furry Prison, is directed towards suicide and hospitalization, after being taken to hospital, this Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) will do whatever you can. It is apparent that he was attacked by other patients and came to visit him and begged his father to save me. These, they're all in the press. Dear friends, according to the General Directorate of Criminals and Inquisitorships in October 2011, a total of 2,021 children remain in prison, convicted and convicted in Turkish prisons between 12 and 17 years of age; 1.623 of them are under arrest, 1.623 have been convicted and 207 have been convicted. So there's a population of children's prisons, about 80 percent of whom are prisoners, and one of the main reasons why they've been in increasing numbers in the prison population lately is tension and conflict due to the denial of Kurdish rights that continue in Turkey. I'd like to share with you some of the results I've taken out of my share of my research at Posant Prison and the background of the children who went to this prison. Because the problem we face isn't just a problem of ethnic discrimination that we face in prison, but the problem we face is that as a process, as rings of a chain, these children are entering prisons as a result of an infinite chain of violations added to each other. In prisons, no doubt, there are not only children convicted or imprisoned from the TMY, but there are a significant number of poor children who have been in conflict with the law to sustain their lives or their families because of poverty, and there are many other children who have been in conflict with the law in their process. But what we see when we look at the background of all of them is that Turkey's fundamental problems are reflected in us by bumping into these children - poverty, antidemocratic state practices, and the unresolved Kurdish problem. I spoke to the families of the imprisoned children in Mersin, their relatives, human rights organizations who were doing research on them. What I've seen is that these children have faced so many violations before they go to prison that the rapes they face in prison are the last part of the process, and they've been fed by the reasons before that. Children who were transferred from Mersin to Pozantı Prison and now to Sincan Prison say that anything in their lives, not to be raped for now, has not changed. The Central Commission on Law and Human Rights of the Peace and Democracy Party presented the results of their talks at Sincan M Type Children's Prison with a report. What we see in this report is that the pressure they face in Posanti Prison, the rule, the exclusion, the threat, the forced treatment continue in Sincan. In view of all of this, if this is the case with the Justice Department's favorite child detention and execution institution, there are now 2,021 children in Turkey that we need to find out what they're up against. These children are in conflict with the law because of this society's inequality, privileged, exploitive, oppressive character, and the penal system in Turkey does not have such a function, even though their conflicts require that they be punished, not that they should be rehabilitated. All indicators show us that children and women are at the bottom of the prison system in Turkey, because they protect themselves less and more difficult than others. Second, children are not particularly mature, so they are less equipped to deal with violence, oppression, exclusion, blame, and all that. But we all have to hand it over because of the courage of these children to learn that today we face a tremendous human problem in children's prisons in Turkey. These children have helped to shed light and understand all the processes that the elders have not had, that the elders have oppressed and covered them up. Let's not underestimate this problem we're facing. The children may be small, but the crime they face is a crime that history, society, culture has introduced to us as the greatest crime. They are not guilty, but crime is committed against them systematically. The prison system's own functioning is a felony against these children, these immature citizens. I want our Parliament to consider this matter as everyone's children, or assuming they're related to some children, and thinking that any day one of these children could come between the wheels of this system. The issue we're dealing with is severe, unforgiving, and once again, as a reflection of the fundamental problems that go on in Turkey, it hits children and comes back to us. All individuals involved in the continuation of this state sovereignty, poverty, extreme poverty, and antidemocratic state sovereignty, are guilty of crimes against these children from police to judges, gendarmes, and prison rulers, and ultimately, tensions and unresolvedness stemming from the unresolved Kurdish problem, which has led some children to enter prison, especially from TMY. So, dear friends, I wish you'd find a solution to this matter by looking at your own children with the movement of this 2021 child's life. This is the last place this solution will be found, and right now in prisons, children are still waiting for their lives to be saved... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They say help, their own father can't save them. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is capable of doing what their father couldn't. I want you to support the proposal.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0016par0311	Thank you, Mr. Furman. Hilmi Bilgin, Sivas MP, who has asked against the group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Scholar.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0017par0315	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Peace and Democracy Party's Parliamentary Group against the group's proposal for the opening of parliamentary investigations under Article 104, 105, in order to ensure that the child's children face violence, abuse, investigations, investigations, detection of problems, drafting a new law bill. I hereby salute your high council. At the beginning of my words, in the third year of his death, the late Muhsin Yazıoğlu, I humbly and respectfully remember, I wish that the event that caused his death should be cleared up immediately, and that the doubts would be eliminated.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0018par0317	Don't wish it! You're in power. Solve it. Solve it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0017par0318	The late Muhsin Yazıoğlu has always been with his people in his political life, followed a policy that is consistent with the values of the nation, with its expectations. Despite all threats and pressures, he has always put freedom, democracy, peace and brotherhood first. And We call to witness him by mercy, and to all the people of Sivas. Dear President, first of all, I find it helpful to point out that every member of parliament can offer a law on a matter he sees or desires to be changed. It's every congressman's right to make an offer on a certain subject. I don't think it's right for an MP to ask for a parliamentary research commission to make a certain law proposal, or that a parliamentary research commission to be created just to justify a law proposal. In modern times, a country's level of civilization has been judged in respect of human rights and especially children's rights. So one of the key indicators of development is that there is no doubt that economic, social, and cultural environment for children is created. According to national and international regulations, children are to be separated from adults. Under legal regulations, imprisoned children are held in closed execution institutions, in cities where the number of children is scarce and without a child-proof execution institution, in areas reserved for children in adult penal institutions. Unless there's a separate section of the juvenile detention institutions for imprisoned girls, these remain in the section of the women's closed execution institutions. The convicted children are kept in children's homes. As of 31/02/2012, there are 2,309 children in their institutions. As many as 1,903 of these children are prisoners, and as many as 197 are prisoners, 209 are prisoners. In our country, the policy of prisoner and convicted governance is not only due to the completion of the sentences of prisoners and prisoners, but also to provide services they need to improve our prisoners, to reintegrate with society. For this purpose, our imprisoned and convicted children are allowed to continue their studies, acquire hobbies that allow them to develop personalities, and participate in social, cultural activities, and receive psychosocial intervention programmes that they need. With all these services, there is no doubt that we are trying to prevent our children from going back into the cycle of crime, to become hopeful, educated, and professional youths with hope of their future. In this case, pre-responsive training and healing activities have also been carried out for children in criminal execution institutions, and after that, protection relief efforts are being carried out. Mr. President, you are aware that there is a Human Rights Review Commission within the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The subcommittee has been established and is continuing its work to investigate problems in prisons and prisons. This subcommittee includes representatives of all the political parties in the group. The subcommittee conducted examinations in many prisons during this period. Sincan Prison, Konya Prison, Gaziantep Prisons are only a few examples. The subcommittee reports its findings to relevant institutions as a result of its investigations, and according to these reports, lack and problem are being dealt with by relevant institutions. As a result of the work of the subcommittee created by the Human Rights Commission so far, the only type of dress application in prisons has been lifted, and, again, it has been allowed to meet in the main language in prisons. We thank everyone who contributes to these studies. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the parliamentary research commissions have three months to work, and these commissions are temporary commissions. However, the subcommittee established by the Human Rights Review Commission, which I have just mentioned, is a commission that is constantly open. If the goal really is to work, if there are some problems, problems, and looking for solutions, then the subcommittee, which is represented by all political parties within parliament, and Mr. Ertugrul Kürkçı Bey of BDP, is still working. All claims are already being investigated within this Commission. We think that contributing to this Commission would be a better way to resolve the problem. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, our House has a set agenda. We, the AK PARTY Group, believe that it would be better to work on the agenda for the immediate legalisation of law proposals and bills. Our beloved nation has given us the authority to solve problems. The issues on the agenda concern all sections of society. For these reasons, I do not support the group proposal because the BDP group proposal is subject to review by the subcommittee under the Human Rights Review Commission, which I hereby salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0019par0328	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a group proposal from Manisa MP Free Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0020par0332	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge in favour of the Peace and Democracy Party's proposal for the establishment of a parliamentary research commission on the problems in juvenile prisons, identifying them, investigating them. In a country such as Turkey, we live in a country where more than one or one member of the ruling party is arrested than any other party. We compete with the number of arrested journalists in China. So many students are under arrest now that it's normal for students to be taken into custody, arrested and forgotten and released after many years. The student who was imprisoned for twenty-five months just because he was wearing the sack, we say, "Excuse me." We release him. We live in a country where possession of one egg is sentenced to forty-four months in prison. Students are treated like terrorists because they keep umbrellas and sell concert tickets. Lawmakers' talks in parliament, their talks on commissions are blocked; you have said enough. No one wants to make promises in the following articles, despite their demand to make promises. We're going to vote. They can call it a vote. Lawmakers who oppose this are being tried to avoid being kicked, slapped, punched. The police, who are encouraged by this, are able to punch an MP in the eye by saying that such treatment is legitimate when they see the MP outside. The separation of forces is completely underfoot. Now, when there are unintended decisions of the judiciary, everyone agrees that the HSYK government intervenes. Furthermore, further ahead, the administration has only stopped instructing the judiciary, interfering with the judiciary, and the administration also instructs the legislative body. Friends who will finish it by Sunday. When I'm in China, I expect good news from you, friends, don't delay it. The head of executives has been instructed to live. And in the end, last night, people's travel freedoms were blocked in search of impact periods. The KESK components, educational educators related to Educ-Sen, and when they set out to use democratic rights on a matter of their own in which they are responsible, they set out to use their democratic rights, as if they were sent by the Ministry of Interior by a deep state, as if they were sending them to all the governors, because Ankara Governors will not allow this demonstration. It says and in 80 provinces of Turkey, Panzers are getting in the way of teachers' buses. We live in a country like this. What happens next? There's no need to be too hard on yourself, friends, but there are curfews like September 12th. That's what we're worried about.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0021par0338	There's a state of emergency.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0020par0339	There's a state of emergency, and there's a lot of interference that's taking place on September 12th, in its extraordinary state, in its times of impact. The only difference between coup times and today was then there was torture, there was abuse, and now there is, but now they're not in police stations, they're a door forward, they're now being held in prisons, prisons. We went to the polls as the Republican People's Party. Why did we go? Because on Sunday, February 26, 2012, a bombshell hit the agenda: there was abuse, sexual abuse, and rape at the Pharmaceutical Children's Home. We got permission from our group on Monday, we got permission from our party manager, we were there Tuesday morning. The picture we came across when we arrived is this: on July 12th, when the report was sent to the Justice Department, Adana Governor, and the Republican Prosecutor's Office by the relevant human rights associations and their foundations, no one had lifted a finger since then, in a positive way, there were awards on the contrary. Where we went, we saw that they hadn't treated the files they've known for nine months. We ran into an inspector there, who was in the race to get a statement before us because he had arrived that day at the Posant. The Minister of Justice, who hasn't done anything about it in nine months, has been trying to make it out of sight and out of sight as soon as he learns from television that the Republican People's Party delegation has left or will leave. When we were on the road, our delegation received a request by telephone from all sides: "Please delay this matter for three days, don't go away for three days." We asked, "Why don't we go?," we said, "Here, don't go." He was officially offering a deep state solidarity. Everything will be fine there after three days." We didn't listen, we went; I'll tell you what we saw, but three days later, the inspectors who hadn't been there in nine months, had gone there, had seen the shame in three days, had seen what they hadn't seen in nine months, and had taken the shame away from it, instead of never having it happen again. We saw that in Posanti, the ward rep system was brought in, and the ward trustees had children, and this is the good boy. The head warden said, "Hi, there's a greeting from the warden. He's being delivered and the children's screams were heard at night and we couldn't sleep because of the noise." The other kids said, "We couldn't sleep because of the noise." But we asked the state's attorney there, the second manager, what did you do for nine months? Well, there's 218 kids, 14 of them complaining, and three of them being claimed children. There are 200 witnesses there. They say we couldn't sleep through the voices. There's a big shame there; what did you do? Since we haven't received the allegations yet, we haven't seen the accused or the witnesses in nine months. We've witnessed such a shame, such a human shame. And you know what else we learned? The second principal and the first principal who was there in his day was appointed to be promoted by the ruling, by the Minister of Justice in October; one to Van Ercish, and one to Ankara. The second principal was gone, and he was very happy, and his friends received a good assignment. We've faced such shamefulities, but we know that in these matters, whether it's a boarding school, whether it's a prison, whether it's a ward, the sun squeezes the sandals, the shoes squeeze the feet. If the ward master is treating the guard badly, know it starts with the warden. If the warden's tough, know it's up to the Attorney General. Why is the Minister of Justice so tough? Because it's based on running a business. The sun squeezes the gazebo, the sandals squeeze the foot. This shame belongs to the executive, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister of Justice. [[Applause from CHP and BDP rows]] And the children who were taken to Sincan are not comfortable now. There is a threat in Sincan, and we will make you worse than Pozanti, the children of Sincan. We didn't talk to these kids, we had Istanbul protocol. We've just looked into the allegations, we've talked to the officials there, and we've made it clear, but we haven't reminded them to go back to the old days, with proper experts, and they're not prepared to meet. But welcome, good children, at the gate of Sincan. They call you Pozanti. And now, those who go there can't go to their families, their families are far away. And the children who were evacuated are left on the streets of Sincan without their will to go there, and their first night out is lying in parks, penniless on the streets of Sincan. And under the teleconference -- so there's a camera -- there's these allegations or other accusations in front of the camera -- we don't know who sees from Sincan, behind the camera, what he's threatening that boy with, how he's being led to contradict each other, we don't know any of them. And Osmaniye... not only here, we went to Pozantiya, I'm an honorary MP of Osmaniye. They said, "Come and see Osmaniye." Our Mersin MP applied for fathers, parents, and we went running. What we're seeing is truly pathetic. There's only one manager there who'd look good in Hitler-era prisons with his dirty smiles, his sarcastic expressions, and you know what he says? There's no such thing as the A team, we call them "robocop" who beat up the objectors. Trained children. Who's training? I'm training him. He says and does things that say: "No beards for two days," he says, based on legislation. Why do you say that? The order says: no beards outside of practice. If our minister's beard lasts more than two days -- his beard or our commissioner's beard -- then he's not allowed to go to the doctor, no family meetings, no lawyers. And they do incredible things there. There's a list of forbidden publications, like there, independent of the outside, and even a book written by our MP, Mr. Iron Steel, is on the manager's list of bans. Now, we'd like to investigate all of this, and we'd like to ask the AKP Group, especially Ahmet Aydın... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm calling out: if there's something, let's go to them together. If he's sincere, then let's see if you can support the motion. I'm saying if you don't, you'll be partners in all the shame that's been done there.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0022par0354	Thank you, Mr. Special. Ali Ercoshkun, member of the Bolu MP. Here you go, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0023par0358	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge against the Peace and Democracy Party group proposal. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation with respect and love. Dear lawmakers, we care about the investigation of problems such as violence, abuse, and sexual abuse in juvenile detention centers, reasons and proposals for solutions. We know that it would not be appropriate for any citizen or member of the Republic of Turkey to be insensitive about this matter. In the past period, developments in particular following the events of children in Posanti Prison have brought up such an important issue. The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy followed up with some work. The children in Posant Prison were transferred to Sincan Prison. An administrative investigation has been launched, and some administrative measures have been carried out. At the same time, all the procedures that were created within the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the perpetrators and children of crime have been evaluated in the following processes, and a number of studies have been carried out and are still being carried out through co-ordination with the Ministry of Justice. Studies such as rehabilitation, psychological support, social studies, determining where to stay based on age and crime, passing from the ward system to the campus system, we can give a concrete example of this. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as Turkey, we're all going through a very important process together. We have a very busy agenda, and it's very urgent. We started primary school and educational law talks, which are known as 4+4+4, yesterday, and we need to enforce that law as soon as possible. Right after that, the People's Unions Act will be brought up. As you know, this bill gave officers the right to a collective contract without a strike. Since the bill was not legalized, officers have been unable to receive salary hikes since the beginning of the year. Right after that comes the Law Bill, which predicts the sale of Forest Lands that have lost its quality, known in public as 2/B. This bill, especially in public, is really important and urgent, which forest villagers have been waiting for, in almost every region of Turkey, and that cities such as Bolu are seriously waiting for. Our MP, who was just mentioned on behalf of the CHP, found the work done in this matter inadequate. In fact, we can also say that the work is going on and that what it means is not true.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0024par0364	What do you mean?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0023par0365	Because they were promoted. The officers, the administrators, were replaced before the events took place, not even a promotion.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0025par0366	What's wrong?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0023par0367	In addition to the administrative measures, there was also a process of dealing with these people. Thus, it is not possible to express that no measures have been taken, that no procedures have been taken, that there are no actual expressions. Like you, we know the importance of this issue, and we also feel that studies should be done. After watching the work, with this important agenda coming up, I hope the Turkish Grand National Assembly will do the necessary work on this matter. I hereby declare that we are against the motion, and I salute our High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0026par0371	Thank you, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0027par0372	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0028par0373	Mr. President, the Minister, who spoke earlier, has both twisted my words and claimed that I have made unrealistic statements. I'd like a word from the tease to make it clear.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0026par0374	Congressman, what did he say to twist your words?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0028par0375	By clearly referring to my person, he lied and did not speak the truth.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0029par0376	He's lying. He didn't say it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0026par0377	Just a second, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0028par0378	▪ He does not speak the truth. He has accused. I want to make it clear because of the bullying.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0026par0379	Here you go, Congressman. Two minutes, I promise, for bullying. Just don't give me any more trouble, please.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0028par0382	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think I've been clear about this since there wasn't enough time. He wanted to give you an opportunity on that subject, Congressman, thank you. This structure we see in Osmaniye is as follows: It does everything in accordance with the law. For what reason did you do this, and where did you see something called "robocop"? We thought they'd deny Team A, he says: I raised Robbie as an intervention squad at work. How did you train it? I trained it. How did you train it? I trained anger management so that they wouldn't get too angry. I think the beard is unusual for two days, or they can't all go to the doctor, or they can't take advantage of the other rights. And I mentioned the off-site list. The order gives him a restraining order. In fact, the free book outside is also free inside, but the books will be looked at by a commission, such as taking out page 90, where there will be no escape instructions. But he's got this limited authority, like he's got a whole new banned book... a whole list. We have the list. There's no free books out there. And if all the visitors were to be interviewed through the glass on the phone, they'd be robbing them from top to bottom, doing something the size of harassment, so they'd never come to visit again. He has to walk from the bottom of the wall to his own fingertips, two hands side-by-side, like in prison, and there are a lot of prisoners there who went on hunger strike to protest the situation. And the hunger strike is this: the administration rejects the food, but it has to give him sugar, as much as it costs him to pay for it, as well as juice, food that will sustain this kind of life. But they put it on a death fast, and they only give lemons and sugar. The prisoners say: "They give ten or twelve kilograms of lemons a day, there is no place to sit, there is no place to lie down, there is no place to sit, just to turn the hunger strike there into a mandatory death fast, and there are serious problems about it. We expect all lawmakers to be sensitive.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0030par0389	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0031par0390	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0030par0391	Wait a second... There's a congressman's request for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0032par0396	Thank you, Mr. President. In the talks on this Posanti Prison, I specifically ask that our town of Posanti be kept separate from the prison events, where brave, honorable, honorable and decent people live in the middle of Anatolia, at the foot of the Toros. In many places, my phone calls indicate that the people of Posence are deeply disturbed by this. The people of Posence are a very hospitable, hospitable county in which our citizens live. I want to make sure that this goes on the record, and when we're having these conversations, I especially want to say that it's not right for our Posant County to be called this way. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0033par0400	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. It hasn't been merged with Posanti County. I'll submit the proposal to your votes, but there's a request for a roll call, and I'll carry it out first. [[A group of CHP MPs stood up]] Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Öner, Mr. Ören, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Ekçin, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Light, Mr. Kesımoğlu, Mr. Young, Mr. Akar, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Tayan. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. Now, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. 28.03.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the advisory council on Wednesday 28,03,2012 (now) there is no consensus among political party groups, I propose that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On 23 March 2012, we gave 3951 points and the head of the TBMM, "Investigation of Special Security Officers' Rights, Health Problems and Other Problems" to be read on Wednesday (now) in the General Assembly on Wednesday 28,03,2012, in the United States of Turkey. Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of the National Movement Party, who has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0034par0428	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. For the past 50 years, there have been some improvements in public administration; some cumbersome structures are being abandoned, some public services are being privatised, while the public sector has been downsized proportionally, while it is being sought to make its primary tasks swift, efficient and quality. The steps taken in our country after 1980 can also be considered as a reflection of this understanding in our country. So far it's perfectly normal and normal. However, there are these changes between public and private sectors all over the world, where governments do not give up their controlling identity, their social state sense, and when they say I'm going to produce services, they don't compromise their human, modern and universal achievements, they make rules, they make them, they make them, they make them, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it, they do it. So I privatized the service, and I'm no longer in charge. He doesn't say anything about it. Here's one of the most important flaws in privatisation practices that separates us from the modern world -- we privatise the service, leaving the employees and those who benefit from it at the mercy of the private sector, leaving them unclaimed. The most obvious example of this is private security. Private security members have been looking for answers to their problems for some time now. Unfortunately, the AKP, which has the responsibility to govern the state, comes to the opposition because they can't see the will to resolve these problems, and they deliver their problems to us. They're about 170,000. Turkey's Grand National Assembly should take on problems that concern about a million people with their families without delay. A review of the relevant legislation from the shortcomings of private security training agencies to the presentation of the rights of members is needed. Members of this organization, which is the government's law enforcement officer, have been created to ensure that they have a little bit more time to take the loads off of the gendarme and give more time to their original duties, and are restricted to the protection of certain places such as the building, the facility, have slowly begun to become targets, martyrs in our country, in which there is a problem of terrorism. However, the result of companies competing in comparison is to be billed for minimizing costs, both under negative conditions and under minimum wage, and under the obligation to sustain their lives, the young children of our country are being crushed by the wild competitiveness of the wheels. They're being treated like modern slaves who work for food. Dear lawmakers, I would like to share with you the following important information and explain to your committee the conditions and future of the sector: we have learned that there are around 1,400 registered firms in private security, but about 300 of them are active. I'm noticing that the industry, 60 percent of it, is in the hands of foreign capital, and four of the largest companies are foreign capital. According to our information, the biggest share of this capital is Jewish capital. The European Special Security Corporations Association has prepared a report. According to this report, Turkey has the largest private security system in Europe. The number of our police is around 232,000. It's a bigger sector than most of the world's armies with about 170,000 private security personnel. The government, which has made the abuse of a number of problems such as the Blue Marmara, Gaza, the Israeli-Palestinian problem a daily occupation, and the cause of them, I say to you: Don't let your hands be troubled, an armed force of 170,000 is under the control of foreign capital, Jewish capital. Of course, we're not anti-Semitics, but to highlight the hypocrisy of the AKP (AKP) who's policy of abuse on anti-Semiticism needs to be known publicly. What shall we say, let them love your religious sensibilities, your love of Gaza and Palestine, are you going to raise the religious generation? Congressmans, private security members have many important problems. Some of these are due to the law, from Law 5188. What are these problems? 1) Private security officers who have delivered a facility to the building as a guard and carried out their duties, close to 30,000, carrying weapons, are trying to carry out their responsibilities with the authority to use weapons for ordinary citizens. In this regard, the power to use weapons must be redefined for these members. 2) (Special security company manager/ educational institution director) must be defined separately. Special Security Services must be assigned to the special security commission, with the importance of the place protected in the projects under the Dair Law, so that the clearance from the TK 24 will be filled with the ability of special security officers to be put in the system to command and command. 3) The VAT rate in the sector must be reduced to 8 per cent. What will that accomplish? The education fee will be cheaper and will be prevented from becoming illegal and the educational institutions will use the amount they receive from the decline of VAT (VVT) to improve the quality of education. 4) In a private security service presentation, such as in other countries, the use of dogs and horses must also be opened. 5) Equality in compensation must be met. Special security guards who were injured in carrying out their duties, or private security officers who died, are entitled to compensation from social security agencies under the contract of employment or on the basis of the collective contract of employment. If the employee is subject to 657 (730), he can benefit from the amount of compensation mentioned in the provisions of Law 2330; no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, As you may appreciate, this is contrary to the principle of equality of the Constitution. 6) Clothes and logos should be uniform, standardized. This arrangement will develop the sense of belonging to officials' professions, the sense of cooperation and solidarity between them, and will also lead to institutionalisation of the profession. 7) The severance issue must be resolved. Private security guards' right to severance is ignored, the problem is being imposed on sector employers. However, responsibility is common with employers. It is not a good attitude for public institutions to continue to ignore the provisions of the Employment Law. Private security guards who have been turned into ping-pong cannons between the employer and the working institutions must be freed from this and clear regulations must be brought in. 8) The issue of the annual sabbatical of private security guards must be resolved. The right to the employee is unfortunately ignored both in private and in public institutions, and the right to annual rest and to be with their families from time to time. 9) Special Security Financial Responsibility Insurance General Conditions shall be reorganised, and the coverage of the insurance must be extended and allow private security personnel to benefit from it. This compensation system must be activated because of the involuntary personal damage of the mensup. Otherwise, the difference between members of the public service and those who are subject to the Employment Act will not be explained from the insurance system. 10) In addition, the scope of the situation that remains out of bounds should be narrowed down, and it should be made clear to vague statements, such as the missing and inadequate service. The individual compensation responsibility of employees must be recommitted. 11) Specialization in the sector must be opened, such as sports safety, bank security... that will improve the quality of the service as well as allow employees to achieve standard practices. 12) Private security personnel should be given the right to union membership. 13) Above all, regulations must be made in order to ensure that the human dignity of our dedicated people, who are trying to earn their lives and the lives of their families, be restored to an adequate wage, and the professions must be saved from abandonment at the mercy of companies. I'd like to say that we're prepared to do our part as the National Movement Party to investigate these problems first and then to connect them to a report, and then to resolve them.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0035par0450	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu, Nüğde MP. Here you go, Mr. Kavalıoğlu.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0036par0454	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear members of the Supreme Assembly, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the motion of the National Movement Party Group to open a parliamentary investigation to investigate the autonomy rights, health problems and other issues of private security officers and to take the necessary precautions. I salute you all. Our country is developing very quickly and steadily, bringing with it the diversification and privatisation of public services. In 2004, Special Security Services No. 5188 was issued the Law to ensure the completion of private security services in a state-of-the-art capacity. Law 5188's serious employment, preventing crime, providing general security, raising the level of education and budget revenues of private security officers, has had a positive contribution to private enterprise and sector development. Members of parliament, the issues involved in private security services are constantly under the supervision and supervision of our state. Private security guards employed are paid by the employer. Other matters related to the rights of the service are determined by the contract with the employer. Those who have completed a hundred and twenty hours of training and have succeeded in their comprehensive school exam can enter the sector as employees with the security certificate they have received. As of today, the number of special security permits from our governors is about 64. The number of private security guards employed is about 240 thousand people. Private security is an industry that employs a large number of people in our country. The private security sector is constantly growing and diversifying. Also, the tools used are technologically developing and changing. As a government, we are as sensitive to the problems of our country as we are to the private security sector and to the problems of our private security guards. We are aware of some of the problems of our fellow security guards, our brothers and sisters. Of course, we care deeply about the rights, health problems, working conditions, and other problems. Dear MPs, the offer of the First Education and Education Law, which is a very important place on our country's agenda, to support the Developments of Forest Villagers, known as 2/B, and to evaluate Places Outside Forest Borders in the Treasure's Name, and to establish Law on the Sales of Agriculture Lands of Treasures, and the Law on Law on Law on Laws and Law on Law on Trades of Public Officers Unions, which envisions a raise to our officers, must be made very urgent on the day, as an emergency amendment to the Law on the Law of Collective Affairs Act, as well as the Law on Public Affairs, and the Law on Computation and Services. Dear lawmakers, I have full faith that all the problems of our private security officers, mentioned and not counted, will be resolved by our government, by the Ministry of Interior. I do not agree with the motion of the National Movement Party Group to open Parliamental research on the basis of Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitution, the United Nations Council of Turkey, in order to investigate the autonomy rights, health problems and other issues of private security officers and take the necessary precautions. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0037par0463	Thank you, Mr. Kavalıoğlu. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP, who has asked for a word in favour of the proposal.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0038par0466	Mr. President, I give all of you my regards. Dear lawmakers, there are some services that, even if the social state doesn't do it themselves, will control with social state logic and will be constantly in charge of the continuity of those services. Now, it's a system that doesn't work for Jesus or Moses. The state doesn't do its social state, and I've made a law. There are three clauses in the law. It's a law that never solves any of the problems or problems of private security companies or employees. He says he did, and it's as if private security services in Turkey are being performed according to a certain law! Guys, this law, in 2004 -- I was here -- we're going to get this law out right now, and we're going to get it, and we're going to get it, and there's going to be a very good, complete law on private security in the future. Dear lawmakers, I don't need this anymore. I came here in 2002. Since 2002 -- not here, not since that day's group of vice presidents, some of whom have been ministers -- I'll bring you Parliamentary records.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0039par0471	There's no government.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0038par0472	For example, since 2002, we've come today, we're bringing it in tomorrow. Now we're stealing a village law, I say, hopefully, this reed won't pass 2015, 2002. We've passed a law on village and neighborhood chiefs, not the Police Department. There's no progress about the village rangers -- I see people, whoever's an individual in this country is a human being -- no matter who's a member of this country. The Special Security Act is a slave law, my friends. If I have any time left, I'll read what I took from their websites, and it's a slave law. These people don't have working hours, these people don't have working conditions. Friends, if the social government gives you a service... now, we take private security in education, private health care in health, private security in sports, private security in order to protect companies. It's such a wide range of services that they're not related to each other, but we grow them all into one type, 120 hours of training! Friends, would you expect a private security officer who tries to prevent violence in sports and a private security officer who works at an elementary school to have the same logic, the same education, the same love, the same respect? He needs special training on different subjects. A private security officer who will be assigned to an educational institution needs that pedagogic training or that psychological training from a private security officer who will serve in a hospital. Can you expect a security guard who serves a game against violence to show the same sensitivity, the same service in education, health, other matters? For one thing, the first condition is here, the first problem is here, and we're giving these kids a lawless education, I'm afraid. Mr. Korkmaz pointed out that it is the same company that teaches you, and the same company that tells you that I will find a job. Don't let God starve anyone. Some of these children say that I do it out of desperation. They give you hope, they get a certain tuition fee, I tell you I'll get you a job, but unfortunately, some of them get scammed. He doesn't get a job, he doesn't have a job, and every five years, these people have to renew their certificates. And every five years, they get a thousand lira bill. Friends, if it's service to the person a social government expects, but you can't subcontract it, it's on the table. The job of the social government is to control the institutions that provide that service. I say, is there one institution in Turkey that controls private security companies? The number of our police in Turkey is 200,000, and the number of our friends who provide private security services has exceeded that number, my friends. There's a hole in the middle. The employees here are subcontracted, they can't get their wages, they can't get their severance pay, they can't get any social rights at all. Speaking on behalf of the ruling party group, my friends said that we set the conditions for freedom and work very well. I'm saying that if any institution in Turkey, one private security company, one private security employee, has any knowledge of the essence, working conditions, other rights and law, I'm really going to apologize. What's that got to do with it? No one's controlling it. These people work under minimum wage just for a living. Although they can't be less than minimum wage, they're going out with a tender. In a tender case, employees are paid under the minimum wage. I'm asking you: a law enforcement force is built to protect the rights and the law of a citizen, but if a football team hires its own security guard at that stadium, if it has to, does that football club's security company protect the rights and the rights and the law of the audience that comes to your side? No, because the team that gives the money doesn't protect the rights and the law of the teams that come to protect the rights and the law of the team that hired it. Dear friends, some services cannot be sold, some services are the duty of the social state. If there's a law enforcement force in Turkey to protect people's future, people's property and safety, the social state is the same... I gave an example of a football team, the Football Federation, and they'll treat each team as equals. The goal is to create a structure that will protect the audience, that will not create a basis for violence. But unfortunately, we're just gonna throw in the private security detail, someone says to protect themselves, but we don't care about the safety of the person across the street. Therefore, this law must come as soon as possible, since 2004... and, in particular, the workers are subcontractors. 220, 240 thousand friends of ours have no rights, no way of knowing their working conditions... some of them work ten hours, some of them work twelve hours, some of them work every day of the week because they have no rules, no rules. A janitor's genius has rules and rules, an apartment law, but unfortunately, there's nothing in the Special Security Act that says the rules, the rules, the rights and laws of employees, so whatever you do to someone, you start a company... Friends, this is not the duty of the social government. The duty of the social government is to ensure the safety of citizens' lives and property. Here goes a system that enslaves employees, but doesn't protect other people's rights and laws. This system is wrong. With the government's social understanding, their hands should be above these institutions. There must be certain rules and rules. If there are no rules or rules, the system is wrong, the workers are enslaved. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0040par0483	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. This is İdris Baluken, Bingol MP, who has asked for a statement against the proposal.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0041par0485	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment against the group proposal from the nationalist movement party, but I will speak in favour of the proposal. I'd like to point that out. Before I speak, I would like to point out a few things as a result of the fact that March 24th is World Tuberculosis Day. In particular, TB is currently ranked number 1 in the world's order of preventable and treatable diseases. As a very serious public health issue for our country, unfortunately, TB has not yet been successful, and TB is continuing to threaten public health with what we call a multi-drug resistance form. As part of the Health Transformation Project, which has been implemented in the health sector, particularly in recent years, the closure of breast hospitals, the constant closure of a process of tuberculosis war dispensarys has caused serious problems in the fight against tuberculosis. We know that the most important leg of the government's strategy in the World Health Organization's fight against TB is the government's commitment to direct-supervised treatment strategy, and I want to stress that the government needs to review these existing applications for the decontamination of tuberculosis, to re-enact chest disease with modern, technical equipment, medical equipment, and to take some measures to re-enact TB patients. I would also like to point out from here that the assessment of all health workers, health workers, and those who deal directly with this subject as employees of breast disease who are also at occupational risk, will provide an important basis for the fight in terms of morale and motivation, and will achieve an important success. I'd like to point out that it's important to have close cooperation with professional organisations such as NGOs and the Thoraks Association, the Association for Respiration Research. Now, about the proposal: Of course, our orator friends mentioned it here. We would like to point out that at this stage today, there is talk of over 200,000 figures. The number of employees in private security companies has reached a number that will exceed the military members of 134 countries. The fact that there is still no regulation for an employee sector that has reached such an important number, that there is still no framework for working conditions, that has not been created for the rights of identity, is really putting the very important victims ahead of this working community. As we know, the neoliberal economic policies that AKP has carried out generally bring capital and a number of practices that predate labour exploitation. In particular, we can easily say that applications for subcontractorization, unsecured work, flexible work and unun unionisation are being carried out in the same way as in this private security sector. Now, when we look at the working conditions of security personnel working for these private security companies, we see that no legal framework, no legal procedure, has been left entirely to the firm's initiative on profit. In most companies, there are a number of applications that are based on twice the amount of work that employees have to do by making them do what 10 people do through five workers. Most private security guards work 13 to 14 hours a day, trying to maintain their lives at minimum wage. Now, actually, there's a law on these private security guards, Law 5188. However, we see that there are no important regulations in this Law for either working hours or working fees or rights to self - interest and health. This security guard says that many of our friends are suffering from particularly serious psychosocial disorders, that they are suffering from chronic fatigue syndrome, that they are suffering from constant exposure to radiation from working conditions and technical devices that they use, and that there is constant exposure to organic diseases in the open air. What our friends have specifically told us is that I would like to share with the General Assembly what they've been trying to bring up over the past four or five years, to correct these working conditions, to make an arrangement of at least twice the minimum wage, to somehow give these friends the rights given to other rights to health care forces, to be recognised to these workers. In most places, we also know that non-certified personnel are dressed as private security personnel. In fact, what we're referring to is a very important matter. We don't find it right that institutions that teach about society and public safety, usually through retired soldiers and police, by a singular approach, have somehow seen the public from a single point of view to a number of centers that have worked their own careers so far. I'd like to point out the importance of having some psychological, sociological rehabilitation programs about these educational centers, and that private security personnel must take an important curriculum about these educational programs that we've been talking about as they enter the community. Dear lawmakers, most of our friends, workers who work in this sector today, in fact, are spending more time than the officers and soldiers who are in charge of the 657. However, when we get to the rights of equity, let's keep them from getting laid off, job security arrangements, and they face a pattern of loss in the face of possible damage, in the face of possible battery, or in the absence of the right to compensation in the face of a life-threatening intervention. For this reason, it is now a necessity for workers working in this sector to make certain arrangements for compensation for certain damages that may occur during either the working hours or the work fees that may occur during professional exposure. Again, these workers, in terms of freedom of organization, must be recognised for their right to union organisation. It stands before us as a necessary need for the entire system to somehow regulate subcontractors to go through the profit system of companies taking the tender. Let's keep it from private security's apps on clothing supply, but we're constantly dealing with a lot of paintings that are reflected in society, reflected in the psychosocial dimension of the serious disturbances they've experienced in many areas of life. For this reason, we believe that especially a human honorary fee should be supported by a curriculum that will not exceed eight hours of worktimes, that the practice of the shift system should not be left at the mercy of the subcontractor, and that it should include general rehabilitation programmes that control the society's sociological tissue. I'd like to point out that the victimology in this regard, especially when we think about it with families, concerns millions of people. Therefore, I would like to ask that this motion of investigation be taken into consideration and that the House and our fellow lawmakers be sensitive to the correction of these victims. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0042par0499	Thank you. Mr. Topstone, here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0043par0501	Mr. President, thank you very much. For two days now, I've been trying to figure out
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0042par0504	Mr. Topstone, please, you have something to say about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0043par0506	Mr. President, this is very important.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0042par0507	Please... Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0044par0511	Mr. President, private security companies, companies in Turkey, are more than Europeans, it has been said. Yes, that's right, these companies that the Turks built, foreign companies, they bought them for money. The Ankara Chamber of Commerce, the Istanbul Chamber of Commerce, the TOBB, even the AKP headquarters were protected by the DAK Security Corporation, while later sold to a foreign company called Securitas. We've left our borders to these companies, customs, ports, at some point. This must be taken care of for the safety of the country. Why are these companies buying the company for $170, 180, $200 million that's built for $17 million? He wants everyone's attention to the fact that they've entered our memories, our hidden resources, our sources of information. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0042par0512	Here you go, Mr. Topstone.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0045par0514	Mr. President, for the past two days, the power from the chest spas has been cut off from the hot water circulation. 10,000 dwellings, including the hospital, are currently unable to warm up. Since it is a municipality owned by the Census Municipality of the City of the Census, we believe this procedure has been performed privately. While it was minus 31 degrees [31 degrees] cold, the same procedure was performed, and the people were devastated. We couldn't open any doors, we couldn't get anywhere. Thus, the people of the Ark are now devastated. I call the concerned to duty.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0042par0515	Thank you, Mr. Topstone. Yes, I will submit the proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0046par0519	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0042par0520	He's got a roll call, and I'm gonna do it. Mr. İnce, Mr. Aslançebi, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Çam, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Kören, Mr. Kören, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Ekcin, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Acar, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Kulkuloğlu, Mr. Il, Mr. Uceer, Mr. Serter. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the nationalist movement party proposal has not been accepted. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Number: 197 28.03.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. Mersin MP Aytug Atcı and his friends, on 21.03.2012, were given the Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for the purpose of investigating the region and the damage to human health of the Nuclear Power Plant (Mersin Akkuyu) (323 rows). lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations Wednesday (April 28,03,2012), and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. Speaking in favour of the proposal, Aytug Horseman, Mersin MP, please.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0047par0542	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the opening of Parliamental research in order to establish policies by predicating the damage to the region and human health of the nuclear power plant, which is planned to make the paradise of Akkuyu into hell. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, before I begin speaking on this subject, I remind you that the hunger strike that was launched today was the 35th day -- the 35th day -- because of inhumane practices in Osmaniye Prison. For your information, the people on this hunger strike are getting worse every day. I'd like to remind the Minister of Justice. Every day, information has reached us that these people's situation is getting worse. We have reported that these deaths could be prevented by very small measures. I'm here, and I'm here to present it to you. In the event of any death, this death is not only the warden, but now the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister is responsible because they now know. Look, we're talking about prison today, no Minister of Justice. We're talking about health issues, no Health Minister. We started talking about energy, no Minister of Energy. A couple of ministers have arrived, and they've just arrived, talking among themselves, they don't know about Congress. That's the real face of the AKP! That's how you see things! Please take this seriously.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0048par0546	People are considering it, don't worry!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0047par0547	Dear MPs, let's come to the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant, which will vomit death in Mersin. In Chernobyl, accidents occurred in three Miles Island and in Fukushima, and in nuclear power plants have once again turned the eyes into nuclear power plants. Look, what does the World Health Organization say in the Chernobyl accident: nine thousand people died in the Chernobyl accident. I don't know if it's important to you. 350,000 people were also evacuated from the area. They're waiting to get cancer. You're bringing the same incident to Akkuyu. Look, we don't know how many people died in the Fukushima accident, we don't know how many people are going to have cancer. You have kept the same thing, and have brought it into the heart of Akkuyu. Look, the disaster here is not only about Akkuyu (Akkuyu) and Mersin). Just as in Chernobyl, this nuclear spill will spread by wind to 250 to 300km. And you should know about this. Look, Japan is getting ready to take its hand out of the nuke after Fukushima. He's built 54 nuclear plants. Look, you're trying to build one, you think you're something. Japan has closed 54 of them, 53 of them, and will close 1 of them soon. You're up, without learning, trying to build such a power plant for Akkuyu. Wise people learn from past experiences, and smarter ones learn from other people's experiences. So I invite you to learn from these experiences -- I know you're all smart. We are not smarter than Japan. You're all going through it now: there's a great need for energy, what's going to happen in 2030? You're quite right. There's a need for energy, it's undeniable, but getting energy by nuclear means isn't as cheap as you think. Look, valuable lawmakers, it's incompatible to try to obtain nuclear energy at any cost. The investments of nuclear plants are very expensive, study carefully, operating costs are expensive, dismantling costs are very expensive. Technologically, we're completely outgoing. Dear friends, we don't have the technology to build a nuclear plant. Both Atom Energy and everyone admitted it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0049par0552	What should we do, not set it up?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0047par0553	Now you're saying, "What do we do, don't we set it up?" You're not gonna build it, brother.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0049par0554	Burn a turd?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0047par0555	You'll burn a turd if you have to. You'd look good in that, and you'd look good in a turd. Instead of burning nuclear waste, burn turds, turds. The smoke of the thesis fades, the smoke of the nuclear waste shatters the DNA of your seven families, and cancer emerges in seven generations. Do you know these things?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0050par0556	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0047par0557	We don't have technology, that's what all the Atomic Energy people are saying. We don't have the technology to build or run a nuclear power plant. We're completely connected, so our whole future is between the two lips of the Russians. The whole world couldn't solve the waste problem, not just Turkey. America tried to solve it, spent 11 billion dollars on Mount Yucca, and then he realized that it wasn't going to work, he buried 11 billion of them, and he's trying to send nuclear waste to other countries. I'm sure you're aware of that, too. Dear friends, no matter what happens, I get nuclear energy. It's not smart to say that. Because nuclear plants disrupt ecological balance, people with environmental spirit know that very well. In the event of an accident, many people will die, just as in Chernobyl, many more people will have cancer, just like elsewhere. There are scientists among you who know exactly what I mean. You can't do anything to pick on me there. Please, come out, talk backstage, ask these scientists if the nuclear spill here will break the DNA, won't it? Human cancer...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0051par0559	Tell me what you suggest.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0047par0560	I'll make my suggestion, I'll tell you, be patient. I've told you before, and I'm gonna tell you now. We don't talk nonsense, we talk suggestions when we're out. So these DNA fractures can cause cancer from generation to generation, so that your children and grandchildren can have cancer. Look, dear friends, a very new study has been published. In this study, it says: Even if there were no nuclear accident, the risk of leukemia, or blood cancer, anywhere around a nuclear power plant, increases twice as much. Is it wise to get up and build a nuclear power plant for Mersin even if it wasn't a nuclear accident? Ask yourself that. Look, agriculture here will be affected, and tourism will be affected. You're going to use water to cool the nuclear plant, you're going to take seawater, you're going to take tons of water, you're going to get sea water temperature 2 to 6 degrees. Fish don't live here, and no seafood will live here. So, the intelligent countries that saw it now moved on to renewable energy. Look, the Mersinites will take care of Mersin. The contractor's leaving tomorrow, and he's having a CED meeting there. As Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said, the Mersinites will take care of Mersin, and they will go, and they will slap the faces of those who seek to deceive the people with these CED reports, and promise them jobs, lie to them, and earn money. They will say, "Ticaress will rise." I believe that all Mersins will show this sensitivity tomorrow. Dear friends, let's come to our suggestions slowly. Oh, before we take suggestions, see what Mr. Prime Minister says at the nuclear summit in Seoul: he's going to take advantage of reliable, low cost, environmentally sensitive nuclear energy. There was this TV show, and it said, "Ba ba ba ba" Is that wise? Good words, good words, but empty, empty. They gave him a piece of paper, he reads it there. Did Japan not know that its intelligence had shut down more or more of its power plants than we did, and 53 of 54 plants? He continues to talk, saying: "We will provide the highest safety and security standards. For God's sake, America couldn't, Japan couldn't, Russia couldn't; we don't have any nuclear technology, we have no nuclear power plant experience, will we? You won't, Prime Minister, you won't. It's not like printing a parliamentary commission, it's not like being a jerk, it's based on scientific data. Well, I'll tell you in the last 30 seconds how we're going to get our energy. Look, in 2020, we need energy for 418 terawatt hours. Look, we only get 380 terawatt watches from solar energy. Look, I'm doing an account for you: 100 terawatt hours from hydroelectric; 100 terawatts from native lignite; 120 terawatt hours from the wind; 380 terawatt hours from the sun; 35 terawatt hours from the biogas -- as you say -- 35 terawatt hours; 16 terawatt hours from the geothermal; 54 terawatt hours from the energy efficiency; 19 terawatt hours from rehab; 824 billion terawatt hours from the sun; 4 terawatt hours from the sun; 4 times from the sun, 2020 hours from today's demand. You're building me a nuclear power plant. You can't carry the burden of that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You'll pay for this on the other side. Of course, if they believe it, it's another matter.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0052par0571	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Ali Öz, MP of Mersin, who has asked against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0053par0575	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Republican People's Party Group to investigate the nuclear power plant's impact on the region and on human health. I salute your high council. Now, nuclear energy is an essential source of energy for many countries, especially in France, Germany, Italy, Britain, the United States and some of the Scandinavian countries, including Bulgaria, Russia, Armenia. It's all about the production of nuclear energy, and it's all about radiation. In research, scientists and the medical world know that even though nuclear energy is not itself, nuclear waste significantly increases the risk of developing cancer. We all know that there are significant increases, especially in some cancers, as mentioned by our fellow speaker before me. At the beginning of this, we know that in what we call marrow cancer, (also called leukemia) there are two times as many as three to five times more than the normal population of breast cancer, there are 200 percent more than thyroid cancers, as well as the anomalies that we call the "congenital" anomaly in society. Of course, when talking about nuclear power, nuclear energy, we don't mean to be directly opposite nuclear technology, but especially for this plant, which is planned to be built in Mersin Akkuyu, especially when considering the geographical state of the region, especially in terms of its own geographical state, we have to remember the fact that it is a very suitable city, both in terms of agriculture and tourism. Dear lawmakers, really, when we think about the area of Mersin called Akkuyu and the area around which this plant was built, where it would take effect, where greenhousery, livestock, agriculture would be severely damaged, with this reality none of us have the right to ignore the fact that people in the region in that area today have quickly evacuated the area. Indeed, the institutions that come there, along with the advances in this technology, promise to open new jobs to people in the region in order to turn the region into a radiation paradise, and distract people with it. Of course, when we look at the developing events in the world, especially in Canada, France, Austria, Spain, the Philippines, Brazil, and many other countries, we must all accept the fact that the research and work of nuclear technology has been halted and postponed. Of course, let's give up nuclear energy and definitely eliminate nuclear energy. We should not ignore the fact that energy is a serious need for the country. Apart from nuclear energy, we believe that there should be more weight to be put on the energy and investments that we can generate in society, in order to get energy from nature, without necessarily ignoring solar energy, wind energy, hydrogen energy, organic waste, efficient and efficient use of energy. Attempts to build a nuclear power plant in our country have recently accelerated, due to the need of nuclear lobbying to make room for narrowing markets and to find storage for their waste. Although the preparations for the re-opening of nuclear power plants today have been expressed as debates from the energy needs of our country, the ambition for profits of the world's unemployed nuclear lobby forces nuclear plants as a political choice in our country. Nuclear energy, in particular, is an expensive energy and is completely dependent on the outside. The danger of nuclear energy -- considering the accident in Chernobyl -- is too great. Therefore, expenses to ensure its safety even increase the cost of building a plant. The nuclear power plant's technology, raw materials, and all of its staff will be provided from abroad. Investment, production, operating and dismantling costs are very expensive. For example, electricity production costs per kilowatt hour are 0.05 cents in hydropower plants, 2.5-3 cents in coal plants, 4 cents in gas plants, and the average cost of nuclear power per kilowatt is 7.2 cents. In this 7.2 cents, the isolation of radioactive waste does not include the dismantling costs of reactors that complete its life. Under the government's contract to build and operate nuclear power plants in Akkuyu, Russia will provide all the technology and raw materials of the nuclear plant planned to be built in Akkuyu. In addition, Russia will sell the electricity it has provided for us at this plant for 15 years, guaranteed to buy, for 12.35 cents per kilowatt -- except for VAT. With this project, Turkey will pay Russia about 71 billion dollars in 15 years when our country has no need for nuclear power plants. By owning a nuclear power plant, nuclear technology or nuclear weapons do not exist. Their nuclear lobby is trying to sell the old technology they have left under the name nuclear weapons of developed countries to expand their narrowing markets after the Chernobyl accident. We all know about the disaster in Chernobyl. Although twenty-four years have passed, we must not forget the fact that radiation is still spreading throughout the region and that nuclear waste is a serious threat to human life with high doses of radioactive radiation. Therefore, nuclear waste must be stored for thousands of years beyond the reach of all living things. Although nuclear power plants have been operating for about 50 years, no one so far knows how and where nuclear waste can be finally stored. There is not a single worldwide method for safe disposal of this waste. Changes in nature with nuclear power plants, especially in the Akkuyu region, will seriously affect and destroy strawberries, bananas, regional agriculture. Believe me, if the lawmakers under this great House of Parliament could see the dark opportunity to pass through the summer holidays, I sincerely believe that they would question themselves in a serious sense as to how this plant was allowed to be built here. Of course, the other harmful effects of this nuclear plant will also result in a change in the ecological structure of the sea. This transition, perhaps from Mersin to Antalya, in the Mediterranean region, will become uninhabitable in the middle sea area, thanks to the waste of gas that will come out of this nuclear and by means of nuclear warming, perhaps most of the fish will no longer live there. I mean, we're a relative in Ankara, bring some kaya lagos. If he says, we'll probably be unable to bring any more. With such harmful effects from nuclear plants, we believe it is necessary to be more careful again when deciding to build nuclear power plants, to re-examine this issue in detail. Carcinogen heavy metals, toxic chemicals and radiation will not only affect the Akkuyu region as a region, it will also affect areas close to the region, which are close by the speed of the local wind. Where the nuclear power plant is established, agriculture, one of the region's largest life resources, will come to an end. The livestock will be over, the fishing will be over. This is the most important thing that lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party, especially before every election, have given the candidate from the region, is a paradise of tourism. In reality, Mersin has serious tourist potential in the Mediterranean, and it will certainly be motivated to be able to compete with Antalya. Even though it has been said, if this nuclear plant is placed in Akkuyu, and is not fully covered, you will not find a tourist who will enter the sea and will not choose it as a safe port. No one will ever buy strawberries, tomatoes, citrus, peppers, cucumbers, bananas. We're dealing with the fact that our country doesn't really need these nuclear power plants in terms of our anti-nuclear power, especially given the right way to analyze energy in Turkey, in terms of how to get it, in terms of how to waste energy, especially in terms of our losses. So if we could get the missing electricity rate down to 5 percent in our country, if we could create a situation in other areas that would allow people to be conscious and waste energy, maybe we wouldn't be so fond of nuclear energy, especially the fact that it's very sensitive and that it's going to take care of the region, I'd like to share with you in the Supreme Parliament. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0054par0597	Thank you, Mr. Oz. In favor of the proposal, Ertugrul Kürkcı, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0055par0600	Hello, my dear friends, Mr. President, thank you very much for my two Mersinian physicians who spoke before me. I'd like to go in other ways so I don't repeat what they say. Like them and clearly, I don't want to build a nuclear power plant in Mersin, or anywhere else in Turkey. I'm against it, we're against it. And there is no one to look forward to it, except a small group of capitalists, and a handful of profit-hungry capitalists. There is, there is one person, I know that, this is our Prime Minister. In 2030, he was going to provide 10 percent of it with nuclear energy, the need for Turkey, and it was, of course, a very easy technology. So the gas canister we put in our house is as much a risk as it is a nuclear power plant. Of course, I don't think it's just ignorance, I think it's just a rhyme that's been invented to make him accept nuclear energy tenders, by accepting the public ignorant, by going down to the level of the ignorant, or a prime minister like everyone else would be expected to read risk assessments. But what makes the prime minister and others so passionate about nuclear energy is not just the need to shut down the energy gap with nuclear energy, but it's actually the need to have nuclear bomb-making opportunities as part of their claim to be a region state, such as the swelling of the frog at the bottom of the well. That's the secret that no one's ever been told, never talked about. That's what everyone knows. Now, this is a general issue, but there's another matter just ahead of us. I want both our lawmakers and the people of Mersin to face this CED-accessibility report here, where everyone who has the opportunity to actively oppose the approval of the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant Project, which is being held on 29 March 2012, will be held at the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism in Mersin province. This Environmental Engineering Company has actually prepared CED reports for the HeES, for HES in Fatsa, for the Gerze Termic Plant in Fatsa, for the Ovacık gold mine. All of these reports have been returned to court order. Now, this is going to happen in Akkuyu. So I invite everyone to be very sensitive about it. Now, dear friends, the friends who spoke before me have spoken clearly. Turkey's demand for visible energy requires a 10 per cent increase in the near future. The amount of electricity that Turkey has lost on the run and lost on the run, produced but unsustainable, is around 15 per cent of the total production. The Chamber of Electrical Engineers has been talking about it for years. As a matter of fact, the Chamber of Electrical Engineers, other environmental strugglers, ecologists, peasants who fought for environmental rights had convinced Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit (Ecevit) that nuclear energy was unnecessary in the past. The coalition government at the time removed the plans for nuclear energy from the agenda because both the public and the scientists took their suggestions on it. Then there was much to support these suggestions. The accident in Chernobyl followed by the Fukushima (Fukushima) incident, and now all industrialally developed countries in the world are taking out nuclear power plants one by one, but companies investing nuclear energy continue to search for markets. So in countries where there are active and powerful environmental struggles, where governments tend to find no markets for new energy sources under public pressure, in Turkey and other countries, in middle-developed countries called G-20, they are looking for markets, and they are selling these plans to governments who are eager to receive the fruit of this ambitious growth in the short term and who are eager to crown their government with glorious economic achievements. Russia has been able to sell this plan to Turkey under these circumstances, but when we look at it carefully, there will actually be investments in Akkuyu (Akkuyu) for more than Turkey's anticipated needs, not one, but four reactors. So, what's it gonna be? More will be asked to be sold to countries in the region as an energy supply. At what cost? As our Aytug Thrower Friend, our other physician friend, clearly stated, at the expense of the health of the peoples and countries in Turkey's region, their future, their ability to live in a healthy environment, no one has the right to gamble such a big deal. So I see it as an offer to feed and influence increasing environmental sensitivity and to encourage Turkey to find creative ways to focus on new energy sources. Where the prime minister markets, where the Justice and Development Party, where the Energy Minister is trying to introduce it to us as a risk-free path, the second generation, the third generation, the generation, the trust of nuclear power plants, what all experts say is, in fact, that we can all easily understand, is that such security does not exist. Moreover, the Akkuyu region is both inefficient in terms of earthquakes, in terms of the tectonic structure, and on the other hand, it is clear that a nuclear plant to be built here will not only have nuclear impacts, but only the cooling systems will significantly increase the temperature of the sea around it, destroying the ecological balance. Finally, in fact, dear friends, there is economic evidence that this energy source that is said to be sustainable and safe is actually unsustainable and insecure, let alone scientific evidence. These plants have an economic life span of between 20 and 30 years. When they've finished their lives, there's no other outcome than to invest at least 10 times as much in order to shut down these plants, to eliminate them, to invest in the creation of them -- to invest a lot more in hiding the waste from here -- and actually, after doing all of this, there's no other outcome than failing. On the other hand, these plants consume more energy than they produce. The energy needed to cool them down -- to produce energy -- causes it to consume more than it produces, eventually, during the operating time. Well, friends, if I go back to the beginning, the environmental community is against it, the people of Turkey are against it, the people of the region are against it, the world is against it. Turkey cannot put itself as a sacrificial lamb to preserve other people's nuclear energy markets. Second: The fact that our government is looking for the claim to become a state of the region in a nuclear bomb is, in fact, the only possible reason for this nuclear plant is that it has the capacity to produce a nuclear weapon, and the claim to keep it is as dangerous as the nuclear bomb itself. Because with a look like this, the moment you look at nuclear energy with such strategic orientation, in fact, you're putting in a threat of sovereignty, population, invasion for the people in your area. However, this is not a future that Turkey's people seek. So I invite you all to support CHP's proposal. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0056par0610	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. Now, it's Afif Demirkıran, Siirt MP who wants to take a stand against you. Here you are, Mr. Ironbreaker.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0057par0614	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The Republican People's Party's motion, nuclear again, how many times have we discussed this? Each time we reveal the facts, but our friends, unfortunately, continue to ignore the facts in the name of populism. To be honest, I'd like to express my sadness here today. Until yesterday, the National Movement Party, and I believe, at this moment, it supports nuclear energy, nuclear power plants, with its administration and most of our friends. The Republican People's Party basically supports it because we've been talking to them for years and years. But I also understand the conversations our Mersin MPs have made here, perhaps to send a message to the people of Mersin. But my dear friends, we can't ignore the facts just because we're going to do politics here. The nuclear power plant is a fact of this country, a fact of the world. We didn't start today! Since 1967, Turkey has rolled up its sleeves to build a nuclear plant. At different times, there have been various tenders, and for different reasons, these tenders have been cancelled, unfortunately. Otherwise, Turkey would be using nuclear energy right now, using nuclear energy used by all countries of the world. Now our friends come in here and say, "People will die, plants will die, animals will die. For God's sake, there are 104 plants in America, 58 plants in France, 6 plants within 200 kilometers of Paris, and in Madrid, there are 52 plants in Japan.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0058par0618	They're shutting them down!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0057par0619	What ever happened to any of them?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0059par0620	It happened in Japan!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0057par0621	Look, I'll tell you the truth: the amount of radiation that a person normally receives is 2.4 millisieverts per year, but the amount of radiation that a person can receive per year is 0.05 millisieverts per year right next to a plant. I don't want to share with you right now the amount of radiation that a pilot or someone or someone who travels very often for a cigarette or someone who watches TV all the time, someone who buys an X-ray film, and I don't want to upset some people. But if we put up something called burdens more than the benefits of the nuclear power plant, let's go around, there's Iran, there's Romania, there's Bulgaria, there's Armenia. If it's a burden, we're already in trouble, but let us take advantage of it. Indeed, as the Prime Minister put it -- exactly the way one of our friends just claimed -- yes, it's safe; yes, it's environmentally friendly; yes, it's cheap. Let's discuss this for hours. We all know the condition of Chernobyl, the condition of the accident in Three Miles Island, and the condition of Fukushima. Look, the accident at the Fukushima plant is not a random accident, and what we're going to build in Turkey is a third-generation power plant with a self-cooling system with a security shield. Now, a friend of ours here says, "Sir, they're bringing out the old-fashioned technology to Turkey." What if it's old-fashioned technology? VVER-1200 is the newest technology, we claim, and it's in the middle. So, dear friends, if the world is taking advantage of this, we will take advantage of it, and not many countries have been able to back down after the Fukushima accident, as stated. Japan is having second thoughts, of course, with public opinion. Look, Germany's made a decision, she's reconsidering it. France says go, Belgium says go. I'm going to build new plants, and I'm going to build 80 new nuclear plants by 2030. Dear friends, for him, the nuclear power plant that will be built in Akkuyu, which consists of four units, each unit is 1,200 megawatts, a total of 4,800 megawatts -- compared to our current board capacity today, is a little over 10 per cent, because at the moment, our power is 53 thousand megawatts, but once it's activated in 2020, the first unit will be activated each year and the peyderpey will take over one unit every year until 2023°, until the hundredth year of our republic -- then the capacity in Turkey will be up to 100,000 megawatts, because every year we have an increase in demand in this country, because there is an 8 percent increase in this country. We can't afford it with our local resources, so we've rephrased it from this platform. We evaluate the wind, we evaluate hydraulics, we evaluate coal. See, this government has increased the amount of coal, its current reserve, the number spoken for many years to nearly 100 percent; it has given licenses to assess where the wind is, wherever the wind is blowing; it has given licenses to evaluate all of our hydraulics, and these are being done. In my province alone, 25 hydropower plants are installed in the Botan Basin. Oh, some of our friends might say, "Yahu, there's an ecological imbalance there too." Another might say, "Don't build a coal plant because it has greenhouse gas emissions." Dear friends, look, if it weren't for these nuclear plants in the world today, if it were a coal plant instead, there would be 1.2 billion tons of carbon dioxide emissions. I don't want to express the other sulfur dioxide, nitrogen and ash. So we have the guarantee of the purchase of TEASY... but this guarantee of purchase is sometimes misunderstood, so, if you'll excuse me, in one sentence: 70 per cent of the first two units have a guarantee of purchase, and 30 per cent of the third and fourth units have a guarantee of purchase and 15 years; so there's a 50 per cent purchase guarantee, 15 years. But after 15 years, TEAS will receive 20 per cent of the net profit each year, even though it is not at any risk of financing or any other, and Turkey will have nuclear energy that it has longed for for for for for years. Mr. Ertugrul, of course, gave his speech. Yeah, he's here, he hasn't come out yet. - There's absolutely no such thing as nuclear weapons. If that's what you're saying, for 45 years people have wanted to build a nuclear power plant in this country, and you're accusing them all of it. There's absolutely no such goal, but we all know this country really needs nuclear technology. The countries with nuclear technology can increase their technology to the highest levels in many sectors. So we're going to build nuclear plants for peaceful purposes, for energy production purposes, because our people need them, and in no way, as expressed here, there's no such thing as someone else's, the lobby's, it's his hitman in Turkey, etc., etc. Look, Mr. Ecevit just stepped back with the embodiment of the engineering rooms and canceled it. No, friends, the economic conditions of that day. The bids received at the end of 1997 were cancelled in 2000, in order to be able to invest in other kinds of sectors because of the difficulties in financing that day, and because financing was so expensive -- because it was a state tender -- that's the issue. Otherwise, nuclear is bad, nuclear is not safe, nuclear is expensive. It is not canceled. So, Mr. Ertugrul, please, I'd like you to reconsider this information personally. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0060par0632	Thank you. Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0061par0634	Mr. President, the Hajji has expressed in his speech that the nuclear issue has been raised many times, and that we continue to deceive the people, even though they have always told the truth. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a correction.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0060par0636	Here, two minutes, I promise. Please don't give me another pick-me-up.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0061par0640	Thank you, Mr. President. Believe me, I'm terrified, I've got goose bumps. Dear friends, you have a congressman who says nuclear is good, so good luck and good luck. You make nuclear look like an X-ray. Look, you're talking about things you don't know. A nuclear X-ray film, a pilot... that's true, but your Prime Minister...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0062par0642	I read your resume, and you read my resume.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0061par0643	He compared it to gas -- a gas accident -- even a cartoon came out about him; a new gas brand was invented, and they called it "Taygaz" (Tayyyipgaz) and it came out of him, as if he were saying, "Tayyazigas" (Taygaz). He made a cartoon, I didn't do it, but it was a beautiful cartoon. The same Prime Minister identified the damage to nuclear energy with the damage to his cell phone. For God's sake! Dear friends, you're playing with the fate of a country. You're not even...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0063par0645	Are you part of the natural gas?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0061par0646	My friend, I'm not a partner in natural gas, and I'm not a partner in natural gas. Look, guys, you can't even control hydroelectric dams in this country, one dam explodes every day.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0064par0648	We have 500 dams, a thousand dams.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0061par0649	Is it true? Wrong? I refer you to God.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0064par0650	Hodja, how many dams do we have?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0061par0651	One just blew up in Kozan. I just had a blowout. Look, guys, there's no such thing as a hydropower plant that doesn't explode, it explodes.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0065par0652	Tell me how many dams you built.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0061par0653	I'm not saying why it exploded. The nuclear power plant explodes just like it did, but look, you can control the dam's explosion, but you can't control the nuclear plant's explosion. Look, you're not telling the truth. In Germany...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0066par0654	How many dams have exploded in ten years?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0061par0655	Either one dam explodes... when one nuclear goes off... if one nuclear goes off... all seven of your families go away, paralyzed, all of them get cancer. Dear friends, Germany is building solar power plants for Libya. You're on foot, you're on foot!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0067par0658	How many dams have you built?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0068par0659	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0061par0660	Shame, shame! Shame on you! You can't accuse me of that. I condemn you. Everyone knows I don't have anything to do with money or stamps. How much is it? Are you a partner in natural gas? It's a shame. It's a dirty thing to do, but it suits you. Way to go! Shame on you! Shame on you! It doesn't suit you, it doesn't suit the congressman.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0068par0661	Mr. Halaman, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0069par0664	Mr. President, I thank you. Of course, I'd like to ask our Minister of the Forest a question. Mr. Minister of the Forest, I wanted to tell you that a month ago in Kozan, Mr. Hanib was talking about something about the dam. We had friends who died here, they went to the flood, six of them were never found. Mr. Secretary, we'd appreciate it if you could give us some information as to how this is going to end. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0070par0668	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0071par0671	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0070par0672	I'll submit the proposal to your votes, but there's a request for a roll call, and I'm doing it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0072par0673	Ten-hut! Count to the right!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0070par0674	Mr. Slim, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0073par0675	Count from the right, count from the left! We'll call and you'll come running.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0072par0676	Under the same roof...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0073par0677	Watch where you're going, it's none of your business! None of your business! Behave yourself!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0074par0678	Mr. Shooter, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Topal, Mr. Star...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0073par0679	We're using our democratic rights from the Charter, what's it to you?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0074par0680	Mr. Wolf, Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0075par0681	We're using our right to criticize.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0074par0682	Mr. Young, Mr. Kören, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0076par0683	It's a right. You're gonna come running, no job surveillance outside, you're gonna come here.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0074par0684	Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Earth, Mr. Karaahmetoglu, Mr. Sokci...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0076par0685	Anyway, that's all you're good for, you're no good for, so lift up and put your fingers down. What do you do? Recep Erdogan says, and you do it just like that, orderlies!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit01spe0074par0686	Mr. Tayan, Mr. Original... I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0074par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın; Turkey's Grand National Assembly Institution Proposal for Change; Tunceli MP Kamer Gen's on the amendment of Articles of the Turkish Grand National Assembly; and the Constitutional Commission Report from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Bill of Law on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster, which is ranked number two, where we left off from the Bill of Laws, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with Kars MP Ahmet Arslan and Bursa MP Hussein Şahin and 7 MPs, as well as with the Plan and Budget Commission Report on the drafting of several Investments and Services in the Framework of Admissions and Development Models. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Justice and Development Party Chairs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramarash MP Mahir Ünal; Basic Education Act and Some Legal Proposals for Alderman's Law and Rize MP's Life Printer and 2 MP's Proclamation on the Law of Higher Education; Justice and Development Group Vice Minister's Office; Minister's Minister's Minister's Office and Minister's Minister's Minister's Office of Justice and Minister's Office; Minister's Minister's Minister's Office of Justice and Development; Minister's Office and Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Ministership for the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and Development; Minister's Office of Justice and the Council for the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Commission on the Council of Justice and the Constitution; We shall make a proposal of the Commission of the Commission of the Commission on the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers; The Commission and the Government? He's in position. Yesterday's merger was addressed on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on the first part of the proposal, which was considered the basic law under Article 91. (x) 199 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 83rd Unification Charter, dated 27/03/2012. It is now on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group that Fatma Nur Serterde is an Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Serker.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0077par0026	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the first legislature of the 199th Amendment, and I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the printed text of this bill I hold in my hand is in fact a historical document of law and democracylessness and the concept of imposed governance. This is a document that will be discussed in the future as well as in what kind of management the AKP has shown. In fact, if you look at this document, you can see a picture of the real face that AKP has been trying to hide from the public for nearly ten years. And the real picture of how you've been cheating on people for years as democracy is hidden in a document that's been printed and distributed to each of us as this bill. This document means many things. For example, this document also carries the coup record of the AKP (AKP) who destroyed parliamentary democracy with a coup on March 11th, so it's a very special document. In the future, our children will benefit greatly from this document as an example of lawmakers entering this Parliament. This will also appear on a dark page in the history of democracy as a document of how brute force is legitimized. So my advice to you is to accept this document as a mirror and look here from time to time and see your true face. Now, what is the reason for being so hasty about a bill being passed by the Commission? Why was this offer not given the necessary time, but in such a hurry? It's obvious, dear friends, because it's not a training project because it's a political project. There's no science in this project, there's no students, there's no teachers, there's no universities in this project, there's no pedagogy, there's no compromise, there's no conflicting project. We're also looking at a law proposal presented as an education project. This project has no budget, this project has no infrastructure, this project has no pilot applications, and this project has no public support, and you know it best. You had a survey study, under the votes of your party, dropped below 50% of the support. Then you got involved with each other at MKYK, and immediately you started producing bonuses. The school bonus was produced, and immediately the untested entrance bonuses were produced because you saw, you saw the public reaction. But besides all these things, there's one thing in this project -- let's not deny it now -- there's one thing that's important: there's a reckoning of the past, there's a sense of revenge in this project, there's a search for the AKP's new runt, there's all this. Now, where did this project come from? Because there's something else that's not on this project, and there's no Ministry of National Education in this project, and there's no Minister's signature, and there's no Ministry's opinion. So we know exactly where this project came from, how it got on the agenda of Turkey. This project is a project that has been put on the agenda of Turkey as the Prime Minister's personal revenge project. This project is a project to create an Aryan race for the AKP, for the AKP to produce one type of people. We didn't say what kind of person this person was, the Prime Minister did. He said, "Let him be angry." He also spoke of so - called piety. Dear lawmakers, this project is also a separatist and separatist project, a project that divides society and our youth. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look how the Prime Minister's designing society: religious and thinners. I mean, there are religious people in society, who are not religious or who have no faith in the Prime Minister's criteria. If you divide and divide society like this with a project called education, no doubt you will be able to reap its fruits very soon. Where did this 4+4 come from? We're looking, we're looking, is there a lot in Europe, 4+4? No, no, there's 5+3, there's 6+3, there's other systems. Then all of a sudden, we find out where it came from, a project that even 4+4 Ottomans recently abandoned, a project that was left behind by Ottoman education. Where do you have kids who are 4+4 and 5 years old to go to school? It's in medical schools, it's in school iptidade, it's in the madrasa's 4-4-4-4-4, it's first, it's in the 4-4-4/4 system, which is divided into suni, it's in the family. It's a project imposed on Turkish youth in the 21st century as a project of the Ottoman education system, because no one should think about it for nothing. It's an outdated project. If we look at how the infrastructure of this law was created, we can see that the infrastructure of this law was created by deceiving people. How were the people deceived? He was deceived by this project: The Prime Minister came out. I am opening the Imam orator schools, which closed February 28th. For God's sake! The Prime Minister doesn't know the truth or not, no one told him? Everyone knows that eight years of uninterrupted education in Turkey were planned long before February 28th. He must have been in the government programme in 1961, and I think the people who run the AKP know. You also know that in 1994 600 primary schools and 161 junior high schools, eight years of piloting projects began to take place. Why do you hide from the public that the decision of this project was taken before February 28th, on the 15th National Education Day? Why are you deceiving the people? Why don't you tell the public that the middle of all vocational schools are closed?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0078par0035	Why don't you tell me?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0077par0036	Why are you cheating on the people? Do the people deserve this? Look, I'll tell you, most of the vocational schools had already been shut down before February 28th, and there were four schools left that weren't closed -- trade schools, publishing schools, cooking vocational schools, and imam-singular vocational schools. On February 28th, it's cheating to say that only the Imam preachers have been shut down. The public doesn't deserve to be cheated. It is cheating to say that the number of students attending vocational education has decreased. Look, I'll give you a number. The number of students attending vocational schools was 949,504 in 1997, while 2 million 72,488 today increased by 118 per cent. Don't deceive the people with lies, you'll pay dearly for it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0079par0038	Thank you, Mr. Serker.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0080par0039	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0079par0040	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0080par0041	Sir, as the speaker continued his speech, Mr. Group expressed that our president was acting on his own personal revenge, and that we, as the owner of this proposal, have brought this in a compelling way, I'd like to explain.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0079par0042	Mr. Aydın, within the limits of criticism, the opposition -- it's a matter of importance -- the government will be able to withstand criticism, endure criticism. Please...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0081par0043	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0080par0044	Mr. Group said our President acted out of vengeance. He's crossing the line of criticism.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0079par0045	I get it, but in the first conversation, starting with taunts, which means nothing more than prolonging our evening.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0080par0046	Mr. President, but the Group has expressed that our President is acting out of vengeance, and I want to explain.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0082par0047	Mr. President, the government responds to the opposition's speech here, so the group's vice president has no right.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0080par0048	Both our Group Leader was used to express personal vengeance here and as an offer owner...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0083par0049	I see, it's been used, there's a statement, and Mr. Aydın is in the line of criticism, and...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0080par0050	Mr. President, I'm the bidder. Besides, the enforcer said we brought it in, so I have to explain.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0083par0052	Mr. Aydın, please take your seat. I don't see teasing.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0084par0053	Look at the records, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0080par0054	However, Mr. President, I'd like you to use the same procedure for other friends, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0083par0055	Halil Aksoy, Ağrı MP on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0080par0058	If you use that kind of procedure on other friends...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0083par0059	Please, Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0085par0060	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, tens of thousands of people who are very interested in the proposed law, are now on the streets of Ankara, before they leave the provinces where they are. Several people from the training workers were taken into custody, and during the discussion of a law that these people were very interested in, neither were their views applied, nor were they allowed to perform the minimum democratic tasks that these people would perform in order to express their democratic response. So good luck to them. But I also want to condemn the understanding that prevents them from being sensitive. Dear lawmakers, before we enter into the content and details of the proposal of the law, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that the AKP government, which holds the majority, has brought Turkey into darkness one step at a time. As it is known, in the last decade of Turkey's politics, Turkey's AKP, which is in power, has put a bit of a wedge in front of the development of democracy and freedoms in Turkey, and has led this country to chaos by its laws, by its fascist policies. This government, which holds both sides of the administration, wanted to take control of the media, which was called the fourth force to lower the voice of the opposition, once the judge was taken over. Unfortunately, the media has been digested in Turkey, which today has been transformed into an empire of fear. Despite everything, the Özgür Gündem newspaper, which carries all its destructiveness on the agenda, has been closed for a month for carrying on its headline. Besides, this government, like spoiled children, thinks it can do whatever it wants, but it doesn't stop from attacking, it doesn't stop from making threats, so it's planting wind, but soon I hope it doesn't blow up a storm. He puts true intellectuals and peacemakers with a conscience and opposition into prison for their political genocide operations. We're dealing with a mentality that doesn't allow the public to celebrate their own holidays, turning the country into a war zone with gas bombs. On the one hand, he gives himself and his followers an economic runt with his laws, while he aims to destroy all the structures that will stop him. Look, when we look at the laws that we've only been seeing in the last few weeks that we've been trying to get to the General Assembly, your intentions and intentions are very clear. For example, the Civil Charter Proposal, such as the Amendment to the Afet Act, the Amendment to the Execution Act, the proposed amendment to the Union Act, the proposed proposal to prevent financing terrorism, the Law on Justice, the so-called Law on Justice Reform, the Law on Work and Law on Law 2/B, and of course, it is clear to whom and how this law will serve. This bill and any of its proposals are not in certain measure of public benefit and the sensitivity of individual rights and freedoms. If not, it is full of parts and passwords of the AKP's plan to end the opposition with arrangements to meet its needs. Dear lawmakers, even though this project has been submitted to parliament as a bill, it is a government bill. Why was it presented as an offer, not as a bill of the bill? The answer to this question is that it is a project that is so unscientific and purposeful and ideological that even some members within the cabinet are afraid to say no to this bill. There was a workshop in November in Antalya, the Ministry of National Education. Not a single sentence of this bill was spoken there. Obviously, it wasn't on the agenda of the Ministry of National Education and the bureaucrats, so it suddenly came up. So you're going to bring an arrangement, and you're going to put it like a decree without offering it to any educational institution or other dynamics of society, without knowledge or opinion. And then you're going to say, "This is democracy." You're going to say, "Scientific education." Don't spoil it like that! It's called dictatorship. There have been many examples of this in the world. And the end is for those who do this kind of thing. In addition, the same offer was not concealed by other laws. Your intentions are clear and obvious and directly hidden within the law. But you need to know that this will never happen. This Parliament is not a place where you can do whatever you want. And this people shall not be your servants, nor your slaves. Look, the way you're going is not the right way. You have no right to do this to the people of Turkey and to the children of Turkey, who have a future. Especially children and education can never be sacrificed to politics. Give up that intention. This training model is not a scientific model. If you want to apply a scientific training model, we say, let's all discuss and discuss a model where everyone can study in their native language. Education in the native language is as human as it is a scientific and more successful system, divine and natural. Obstruction and banning is the greatest regression. One-quarter of our country is the Kurdish population, and their education and teaching in their native language -- very rudely -- has been blocked for centuries. Precious lawmakers have been treated in Turkey as raw materials to be processed, institutionalized to serve the official ideology and capital of the state during all rulings so far. Education in Turkey has been discussed with the same logic since the founding of the republic. According to changing powers and management relations, education has been constantly changed and has been made a complete problem; so has it yesterday, and so has it today. AKP Power also considers education with the same logic; in a slightly different way, it is to commercialise and market education. As a best example of AKP approaches, the hundreds of chronicized problems of education were in place and suddenly exited the public with a bill formulating a structured change in the education system. There are still united classes in Turkey, there are still 70 classes in Turkey, and there is still a troublesome system, such as transport education. The AKP serves nothing but to deepen social dissolution, to develop the meek and religious youth its own government wants, and to raise the quality of cheap labor that capital needs, let alone solve the problems of the education system today. On the other hand, with all the financial problems of schools, education, the FATHIH Project is pursuing millions of dollars to close companies. As part of this project, the exclusion of purchases of goods and services within the scope of the Public Contraction Act will also lead to certain measures that are incompatible to control and accountability in the laws of public interest and protection of the state budget. In addition, there is no legal and institutional reason for the scope of the Public Contraction Act to be excluded from this scope. Dear lawmakers, as a result, this proposal for the law, which seems to be unscientific and unprofitable to children's developmental properties, contrary to the equality of opportunity and public interest, must be withdrawn. Instead, in order to resolve the basic problems of education, all parties must agree on a broader understanding, in order for a more modern, more democratic, human-oriented education system to be built. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0086par0077	Thank you, Mr. Aksoy. Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri has been asked to speak for the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0087par0081	Mr. President, I find that the esteemed MPs have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the first part of the First Section of the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws with Elementary and Education Law, ranked 199. On this occasion, I salute you all. Once again, for the record to fall, this bill brought before the High Assembly is incomplete, incomplete, unethical, and questionable. The meeting of the proposal on the Commission has not been completed. The talks after Article 6 were under normal conditions and were not held with the free participation of members of the Commission. In the commission's work, democratic processes, regulations and principles have not been observed. Until the 6th article, this proposal is offered by the Turkish National Assembly Board of Education Commission, and by the 6th article, by friends of the Justice and Development Party (AKP) Commission. Our commitment demands have not been met, there are no conditions for us to make a motion, and we have not been able to talk about our proposals. I said that once again for the testimony of the truth. Remember, the truth sets everyone free, and you too. So, we really need to take our evaluation on the road. This bill has been severely damaged, not only by the law proposal, but also by the political institution. Those who produce images of fighting and chaos have corrupted politics. Fighters have caused politics to lose altitude and their public reputation to be executed. As members of the National Movement Party Commission, we have done everything in our power to create intelligence, common sense and a healthy working environment. Instead of discussing each other's fantasies and fears, we tried to get them to discuss the proposal of the law. However, bad images could not be prevented. Now, I would like to apologize for the corruption of politics and for the loss of politics, for acting in social responsibility and for contributing to bad images because we have disturbed you. When it comes to the next generation of nationalist movement, we believe that the future of the party comes, not the future of generations, but the future of the nation and the nation, and then the party. Dear lawmakers, it is not possible to resolve the enormous problems of education by being stubborn, biased and sloppy. Education, fantasy, insensitivity and irresponsibility won't do. For all sides, it's the worst thing that can be done for society to have a political understanding of not being able to understand education. It's also the problem with the way people look at each other and the way they look at things and the world. The look of the piece is the biggest obstacle to understanding the whole and all. It is not the work of a wise person to have or separately exclude events that result in one another in one place or in another. Matter and meaning, religion and religion, nation and state, soul and body discrimination are the biggest mistakes to make. The AK PARTY makes that mistake constantly. My words are outside the House, no one should take it personally: there is no peace there if some people have to listen, some people have to listen to science, some people have to fight with Turkism, some people have to fight with Islam, some people have to fight with the state, some people have to fight with the values of the nation. Where values are used against each other, there's fanaticism and dogmatism. Needless to say, their approach is morbid. One of the national or religious values is the person who is missing, and in reality, he is not a complete human being. There is no greater power than the belief supported by knowledge. That's why we, the National Movement Party, ask that the awareness of the national, religious, and moral values should not be denied them, for the sake of strengthening future generations. Generations who don't know their religion, nationality and history become prey to others. In this sense, the coefficient on imam oratories has been justified and beneficial. We, the National Movement Party, consider it necessary to open the middle part of the Imam oratorial high schools, but it is the right of every Muslim Turkish child to learn and know his religion. Therefore, we find it necessary for all students to choose the Koran, the Great Prophet, to learn the life of our Grand Prophet, the lessons of memory, and the knowledge of Islam, and to defend it. The fact that the Qur'an should be put as an elective lesson should not be left on the initiative of ministers or regulations, and that other elective lessons, primarily the Qur'an and the knowledge, should be expressed in the 9th article. The Qur'an cannot be reduced to an ordinary elective. That's the way it should be for him. Dear lawmakers, the offer brought before us is not only a procedure, it is an essential, participation, democracy and ethically, but also a troubled text in Turkish. This offer is illustrated by a descriptive disorder. The Turkish language of this proposal is terrible, and each reader has a flexible and open to interpretation that has a different meaning. Comma and joint sentences have caused the law proposal to put more than one meaning into its materials. This bill not only offered Turkish, but also to the children. With this bill, 60-month-old children will be allowed into the classrooms. This offer will set eyes on the toys in the children's hands, ridding them of play and toys during the play age and put them in the classroom. With this bill, companies, cartels and monopolyes will be provided with cheap labor. The offer includes elements that could destroy the souls of future generations for the sake of brutal capitalism, transform them into automats, and turn them into robots that fit to be used. Dear lawmakers, on the other hand, this proposal for the law is more of a tablet computer tender than an offer for elementary education and education law. This offer is completely morally devoid of it. This law is an offer of the law to give the tender to those who are asked rather than to offer the law on education. As a matter of fact, the 24th article of the proposal of the law states that the purchases of goods and services by the end of 2015 with the goal of providing computer and similar needs are not subject to the provisions of the Public Contraction Act. Thus, the period of tendering is being opened that is not subject to the provisions of the Law. The AK PARTY so that he can give the tenders to whomever he wants, under the circumstances and anyone else he wants. It's hard not to wonder how such an open, shameless, and unintelligible offer can be made. It is called the seizure of the food of the orphan, the orphan, the poor, and the poor. That's not the end of it. Another clause guarantees the rights of generations to come for 15 years. In Article 25, the situation has been organised: AKP's ministries could be carried out for up to 15 years, with the approval of the senior executive in the business of buying goods and services by the end of 2015. As it is known, 2015 is the end of power. 2015 is due to significant and serious changes. 2015 will likely be a year when the EC PARTY will have to hand over power. For this reason, the EC PARTY ensures that its purchase of goods and services by 2015 ensures that it will take up to 15 years of widespread loads of production. Clearly, the EC PARTY calculates to pay the price for the goods and services it has purchased for another 15 years, even if it is separated from power, and wants to guarantee it. Dear lawmakers, there are no students in this bill, there are no teachers, there are no administrators, in short, there are no people in this bill, so there are no subjects for education. There are no students, teachers, managers in this proposal, but there are things in this proposal that want to write down your reputation, reputation, and reputation in colleges. This proposal is a bill that names universities rather than a bill that restructures education. It's called neurosis, self-righteousness, and selfishness. This offer lacks sincerity and consistency. With the leader of the national opinion, the names of those who later take off their national vision shirt will be given to universities. Those who named the universities after their own members have withheld the name of Sheikh Edebali, the national and spiritual owner of the land above which the universities have risen. Those who read Sheikh Edebali's words and gain sympathy with the masses are exemplary in their refusal to give their names to a university in the land where they fermented the Ottomans. Let her name be given to Bilecik University. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...this people want to know, and we want to know. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0088par0100	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Now, Muharrem İnce, MP of Yalova, who has asked for a personal word on the first chapter. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0089par0104	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I thought today was the only time we'd experienced bullying from the commission stage to today. On Friday (August 8, 97) the title of the daily Hurriyet is: "Transgression in the Parliament." The Prosperity Party, which opposes eight years of education, has turned the Plan Budget Commission into a war zone. The RP have interrupted the National Minister of Education's speech by cutting off his microphone. They've invaded the podium. They insulted the minister and spoke of death. Again, the same day's newspaper: the same interesting methods they used to prevent talks in the parliament made all lawmakers say ▪pesτ yesterday. The Prosperity Party put paper in the bells used to get people backstage to come to the vote. It was suspected that the Prosperity Party voted on behalf of lawmakers who were not present at the General Assembly during the vote with a compass in the cups. Following the adoption of Article 9 of the Law by only eight different points, the 10th Article vote was read under Prime Minister Yilmaz ▪'s instructions. Suddenly, the difference rose to 58. ANAP Group Vice President Ülkü South...that's a very rude thing to do. There's a trick, there's a voter theft. He said it's genetic, so you've done it then, and you're doing it now. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, now, look, I'm going to tell you an example of how you're going to steal our children's points. Mr. Secretary doesn't exist.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0090par0109	Here.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0089par0110	Oh, he's here, he's here. Look, I'll name you now the Conium Eregli Special Shahika Elementary School. Seventy per cent of the students have a year-end success score, 70 per cent of the year-end success points, 500 points. You know what this is gonna be? Now, the AKP MPs don't know because they don't read this law.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0091par0112	We know it well.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0089par0113	The Minister doesn't know either. I'll tell you what: there'll be schools of 30, 40, senior classes of 30 or 40. Like in this school, they'll make them all valedictorians, graduate with a full score. Then, because you have increased the authority of the SEC in the deployment of the valedictorians by this law, they will look upon it because it is already your men, and they will place it in schools. They stole the KPSS questions. I'm telling you, they stole it. The Prime Minister said, "I've got the air up." He said, "There's no story, there's no results." Who stole the KPSS questions? You're stealing the future of our children today. You're going to make your children top of the school at 30 or 40 schools, your followers' children, just like in this case, you're going to put them in good places here and there on the college exam. Your work, your power, the books, the tricks. Look, I'll give you more examples. Another example is that the public contract law is being excluded from the purchase of these tablets. ▪ How will it be done? Now, I'm telling an example. The Minister will know which bureaucrat I'm talking about. One: a public servant, for example, could be a vice president -- that makes a design in his name as vice president. He takes this design to a company, then the company puts this bureaucrat's name on the patent application, and then the bureaucrat prepares a tender with the other members of the ministry. The product described in the tender condition is a patented product designed by that bureaucrat. This is against the Law of Contraction. The patented product is made to look like it was donated to the ministry so that this firm could get the tender, so the trick was done before the law was passed. It's another sign of what happens when the law comes out. Mr. Prime Minister, I've given the Minister a motion to question. Why can't you answer that for three months? You, here, make a law to steal the kids' test questions, steal their scores. You're making laws out of children's computers to get them out of the Public Contraction Act, for the Rant, for the Rant. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0092par0119	Thank you, Mr. Slim. Avni Erdemir, MP of Amasya, who asked for a second word on his behalf. Here you go, Mr. Erdemir.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0093par0123	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the first chapter of Law Proposal 199 on behalf of myself, and I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, our party, which has gained the great gratitude of our nation and has come to power, has given our nation great success in its nine-year power. The changes in the education law we discussed today are the response to a request for social change. Our nation is looking forward to writing this change in the success home of the AK PARTY. Dear lawmakers, those who advocate uninterrupted education today, remember that uninterrupted training decisions have been made in the shadow of the National Security Council during February 28th. You can't be an electrical engineer with uninterrupted education, coefficient injustice, university of vocational high schools, graduate in the electrical department of vocational high school, and a mechanical degree in mechanics, you can't be an engineer with that law. After all, no one sent their child to vocational high schools without a chance of getting into college, and vocational high schools turned into a high school of sad, hopeless kids with no hope. I'm afraid he's had a problem with vocational education, and he's been seriously injured. The cries of the children of this nation, who were victims of these decisions, were not heard, their tears were flooded, and they drowned the oligarchy, unfortunately they were not noticed in this country. That's why we're now creating a system of democratic education that opens the way for vocational education, instead of an understanding that raises one kind of citizens, which is adaptable to the new age, to the economy, to the flexible, to the preferential, to the leading, to the democratic education system. Dear lawmakers, we've always expressed our achievements in education in this great House, and you didn't want to believe any of this. We said we raised the schooling rate, and you didn't believe it. With conditional cash transfer, we raised the schooling rate of all our children, girls and boys with their campaigns, and we reduced child labor, early marriage. You didn't believe it, you objected. At this point, you agreed to all of this today. Yes, you succeeded, but you did it through uninterrupted training. You said. You've had to accept our success, even if it is associated with uninterrupted education. Thank you for that. Dear lawmakers, with this law, we bring 12 years of mandatory education in four-year-old slices. Look at the modern world, how many countries in the world are applying the uninterrupted model of education you're defending? Come and tell our people about this. Dear lawmakers, with this law, we want to end the coefficient injustice, the shackles on the leg of the high-schoolers, everyone compete on equal terms, go to higher education schools without exams, students who have entered 10 percent of these schools will complete a test-free degree. We want him to be an electrical engineer with an electrical degree at vocational high school, a mechanical engineer with a degree in mechanics. Why are you complaining about this? Dear MPs, with this law, we want the FATIH Project to live in this country, with smart boards in all the classrooms, with computers in the hands of our students, with all the work done, with justice, law, but without bureaucratic barriers that will slow this change down. Who can see too much of this for the children of this nation? Do you see a lot? Today, by the power vested in us by our nation, we pull out those walls ahead of them, remove the set before them, which darken the future of our country, our young people. We're covering the wound of uninterrupted education, coefficient injustice. Who can complain about that? Of course, everyone has the right to complain, to object, but the way is clear in the democracies. You go, you tell the people, you tell yourselves, if people believe you, you get the authority, you bring the uninterrupted, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0094par0136	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. There will now be a question-and-answer procedure on the section for 15 minutes. The MPs who entered the system yesterday were Mr. Imlum, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Tanal and Mr. Tanal; Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Young, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Köse, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Halaçoğlu, Mr. Öz, Mr. Demir, Mr. Topcu, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Özgundüz, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Kınar, Mr. Kurt and Mr. Dağoğlu. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0095par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as part of the FATHIH Project that you piloted, how many tablet computers have been purchased from which firms so far, and how much money has been paid for these? In this law, why do you allow change under the CIC and the exclusion of such purchases beyond the scope of the Public Contraction Agency Act? Why don't you find it more appropriate to make that change in the original law? I'd appreciate it if you'd answer me. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0096par0143	Thank you. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0097par0145	President, thank you. My question to the Minister is: The draft of the law is twenty-seven articles. I looked for these substances, looked for them, couldn't find them. There's a veil that's considered a nuisance. I couldn't find this headgear in either. Can't he just put in an addendum to remove the condition of this veil that is considered a nuisance, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0096par0147	Thank you. Mr. Kuyoglu... no. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0098par0150	Thank you, dear President. The Minister of National Education -- I don't know -- handed out a pamphlet to all lawmakers like this. In this pamphlet, I can't say that it's a lie, it's against the truth. What is this? Here, dear friends, it is written in Germany for four months, the age of starting primary school was lower. It's totally against the truth. I'm giving a doctor's thesis, which is very comfortable here, underage. What's the motive? Two: not only Germany, but Bulgaria in that way, Denmark in the same way, Sweden in the same way, Greece in the same way. So, Mr. Secretary, who are you trying to fool? I beg you... people believe in God first and then believe in the state. Why are you trying to deceive the public here? Here, in our Library of Congress, with a doctoral thesis published, these pamphlets of yours are in complete contrast. How do you feel about that?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0099par0153	Thank you. Mr. Agha? No. Mr. Erdogan, please.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0100par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I asked you yesterday, again, I didn't get an answer to my question yesterday: After the State Department of Education was replaced by a decree under the Law of the Agency, you appointed how many non-educatorate people as undersecretary of the National Education Oversight, undersecretary of the Undersecretary, General Manager? Has the new philosophy of education of power come to a point where education is too important to be entrusted to educators? My second question is, you're making it five years old to start training with the current bill. Who will provide proper service for these children, and how? Of course, who's going to pay for the guides for the services of these children? My third question is: "The classrooms will be closed." You make statements. However, the bill we're negotiating clearly states that the central exam system will continue. How are you going to shut down the classrooms as long as this test system continues? Why do you confuse a citizen with such unnecessary explanations?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0101par0160	Thank you. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0102par0162	Although 20 articles of the 26-point proposal have not been negotiated on the commissions, the AKP's National Education Commission President Nabi Avcı and AKP's National Education Commission members and Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek, who received this report, and you Deputy President and AKP Group members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, have written a black stain on the Turkish Parliament's history, which will not be erased from you. Secondly, what decision did Zat, the minister of national education who committed the suicide, have previously filed a lawsuit against the court, in the time of the D.E.C., and how did he decide that he had not committed this suicide crime again after he had re-established a self-inflicted NGO? How did you get the court order to remove this perfect goose?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0101par0165	Mr. Kaleli...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0103par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. Without consulting any part of the community, this project brought with the proposal of your group presidents, which one of your Party Programme, your Government Programme, your Election Declaration? How many times has this been taken from whom? Now why do you bring obstacles to NGOs who want to express their reactions? Why are those who want to come to Ankara from other cities stopped by the Ministry of Interior? Are you trying to convince people of this project because of the European Union's obligation? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0104par0169	Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0105par0170	Mr. President, I'm afraid this bill has not been discussed in the commissions. Republican People's Party MPs were not brought into the commission and attacked by AKP MPs led by AKP Deputy Chair Mustafa Elitas, who painted a very smiling, sympathetic and civilized portrait. I'm afraid you brought it here as a basic law, and I can't see you here either. Now, first-degree interests, training workers, all day long trying to make their voices heard under police attack and pressure. There's a distance of 100 meters between where they've been stopped by the police and where they want to be heard by the press. Are you going to make an immediate attempt on this and allow public workers and teachers to make their voices heard? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0106par0173	Thank you. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0107par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I asked you yesterday, and I will repeat, the imam is being appointed imam from the imam orator high schools. And I'm saying, in my question yesterday, I'm saying, do you plan to open a university, not just a seminary, but a university, to raise an Imam or a preacher? Because growing imams requires a very different quality, and the country really needs the right imams. Do you have such an opinion? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0108par0178	Thank you. Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0109par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, do you believe that the formula 4+4+4 will be reformed in education? ▪ Is it right to change systems so often in your ten years of power? Do you believe that this bill has been debated broadly and well-conceived, do you see it as a mature bill? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0110par0185	Thank you. Last question, Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0111par0187	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Secretary, especially in the infrastructure of the Mugla Milas elementary schools, there's a great deal of paint-painting, roof problems, window problems. Because of lack of staff, he does not immunize cleaning problems especially in schools. Do you have a plan, do you have a schedule, so there's a lot of trouble with infrastructure, how are you going to do that? Now, once this law is passed, there'll be 50,000 more. What are you going to do, drive them to the villages? My third question is, there are a lot of students who have finished biochemistry, physics, chemistry, IT. Do you have an opinion, a plan, a schedule for their transfer? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0112par0192	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please answer the questions.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0113par0194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very valuable lawmakers, first of all, the questions about this infrastructure are probably going through the heads of many of our MPs, and I would like to give him a brief answer. Every year, we send private administrations to our budget to provide us with the resources for the removal of some basic services and shortcomings of any school, especially primary schools, such as paint-and-washing. This year, unlike the previous years, at New Year's Eve, we sent the necessary funds for repairs and maintenance to relevant private administrations in January. The relevant governorship and municipal education agencies will try to address problems by prioritizing priorities. Dear friends, first of all, I have to say that 4+4+4 has never been defined by me as a reform that changes the entire system in the national education system. I mentioned the national education system yesterday. I've said over and over again that there are many elements that form the system, such as curriculum, teachers, school and physics infrastructure, technological equipment, structure, purpose and goals, one of these elements is structure, and there is a change in structure in this system, and I want to say it again. This is not a law that covers the entire education system, but only changes the structure in the basic elements of the educational system, it increases mandatory education to 12 years and makes it gradual. You're going to wait for reform other than that?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0114par0197	Where does it say it's mandatory?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0113par0198	Then we will share with the public as long as there are changes to the curriculum, the teaching profession, the goals and goals, the strategy. Other than that, I'd like to say to my friend, who has just judged the information in the books that we distribute, that you, please, check with the sources of the information we gave you in that book, and you'll have a chance to see what those sources are like. If there's any difference in the doctoral thesis that you and we have prepared with our sources, please review your sources in your doctoral thesis. The lower limit in Germany, as we know it, has been decided with the child's guardian to start school for sixty-four months, the upper limit is seventy-two months, and the children born between September 30 and December 31st, who will have just completed their six years of school. From this point of view, we have no doubts about the information we predict, so please review the resources. There's a question about the tablets. Dear friends, we have begun piloting the FATIH Project. As soon as we started implementing the pilot, we kept a limited number because it was not yet being produced in Turkey, so of the companies that bid on existing computers, two companies received the tender. And we didn't buy the product ourselves, the state supply office bought it, we filed our request. In total, we bought 8,800 tablets of computers; at 4,800, the Sentim I.T. company won the tender; it was a slightly larger product; we bought one for 775 Turkish lira; the other for General Mobile; and General Mobile gave us about 4,000 products; and that was 599 lira each. You've asked this before in the Commission, and I've given you information about it, and I've had to re-introducing it on this occasion. However, I say the same thing again, especially when group talks are being conducted, and then in questions specifically about the purchase of IT technology and the establishment of infrastructure, for reservations about the outside of the Public Contraction Act: The fact that it is outside the Public Retribution Law does not necessarily mean that it will be illegal and that it will be made arbitrary; it will already have legal legislation within its own structure, and it will again be carried out in accordance with the tender processes.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0115par0203	Then why is it changing, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0113par0204	It's very simple, Mr. Light: We're changing it because we also provide infrastructure for the purchase of Internet services; it requires a serious funding source. Since the Ministry of National Education does not have enough resources in this sense, the company will also provide internet service, which will also make investments. Another reason why he's making these investments is that if he's providing Internet services, if there's some problems with infrastructure, we think the company that's going to provide the Internet service doesn't need to justify the failures in the services, so let him do the infrastructure that does the service. In that case, no contract, no contract, no contract, no tender that will finance it, and when we look at talks with all of the firms in this sense and other public tenders like this, we need a more than three years of tendering, and we're doing it for that. Do you think there's a more obvious and transparent explanation than that? If you want something more, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0115par0205	Why didn't you do it in your own law and put it in here?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0113par0206	Besides, the bidding process needs to be shortened. When you attempt to buy any tablet computers in the current tender process, we can produce products for a period of time when there is a possibility that they will wear out before they even get the product. From this point of view, we have a very clear and clear explanation of the matter. How many executives do not come from education in the National Ministry of Education? Guys, let me ask you another question: do you think being an educator means being a professional manager? When you think of it as the top branch of a Ministry of National Education, if it's the assistant undersecretary and undersecretary, we need more people there who know how to develop strategy in a professional capacity, who can create a vision of governance and do scientific analysis. However -- I've made it clear, again -- that every one of our friends who's been in office in our leadership today has been teaching for at least five years and ten years on average, but it wasn't enough, we've made it necessary for many of them to have mastered grad school. And it was not enough, but We chose most of them from among those who know foreign languages. Don't you think that's a good choice? Is there any point in creating people who know education all over the ministry but don't know how to govern? Despite all that, since you've asked me again, there are only three people who don't come from the educational sector at the level of undersecretary and undersecretary. Do you think that's too much?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0116par0208	Mr. Secretary, will you please make up your mind?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0113par0209	So when you look at all of this, please enter our website -- our website -- and most of our friends will have access to it. Therefore, do not ask questions here in a manner that will cloud people's minds.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0117par0210	The plagiarism...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0113par0211	I also conclude my words so that the man who asks about my suicide first will give the information about the resources of his own fortune to the community and ask these questions.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0118par0212	Don't miss the answer.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0119par0213	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0120par0214	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0121par0215	I thank you, too.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0120par0216	Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0122par0218	Mr. President, when he answered my question, he said, "Let him explain the purpose of his service." It's a taunt, let me explain.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0123par0219	Do you have to explain?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0124par0220	What's it to you, you run the coven?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0125par0221	Wait a second... Let's hear it for Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0126par0223	When he answered my question, the man who asked me the question of suicide first said, "Let him explain the substance of his wealth, and then I will answer it."
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0127par0224	Explain yourself, and explain the nature of the matter.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0125par0225	Mr. Young, let him explain the nature of his wealth. Where's the taunt?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0126par0226	Of course, I mean, let me make my corrections, sir. Let me explain, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0128par0227	Mr. President, you've actually made a statement about the vote.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0125par0228	Please, Mr. Secretary, you...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0126par0229	Look, he's on the run, and he's in the perfect sweater, and you have to explain how you lifted that perfect sweater, how you lifted the court order.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0128par0230	When the location arrives, explain when you have the chance.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0126par0231	Mr. President, there's an NGO ruling that this is a theft of information, that he's suing against the SEC's decision, his case is dismissed, and after five years, a new SEC decision is being made. Explain to me how that decision was lifted. Why, explain it here, explain it to us.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0129par0232	Mr. Young, please...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0130par0233	There's an open taunt for Mr. Young, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0126par0234	There's bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0129par0235	No, I said I'd file a motion on the departments. Let's do it on one item, and then I'll evaluate what you're going to do, but first it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0126par0236	No, why, now that I'm here, while it's hot, I'll answer.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0129par0237	The word won't get cold again, Mr. Young, don't worry, it won't get cold today.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0126par0238	Sir, let's tell them how they're going to tender these computers and who they're going to add a fortune to.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0129par0239	It's not going to get cold, Mr. Young, I'll consider it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0126par0240	Tell me, what will it add to your fortune?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0129par0241	Please, Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0126par0242	Did you send word to Mr. Recep that I'm spending $100 billion in government resources?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0129par0243	Mr. Young, there is no such procedure, please...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0131par0244	Mr. President, I assume you're moving on to the motions, sir?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0129par0245	Sir?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0131par0246	You're starting the motion process.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0129par0247	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0131par0248	Mr. President, we have a motion from each political party group on the motion set distributed to us, and we're negotiating this proposal with the basic law in accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Code. The second joke of Article 91 of the Civil Code is clear. According to this joke, lawmakers, the main commission and the government can submit motions during talks on basic laws. Two motions can be submitted by lawmakers for each clause, but again, according to the same joke, political party groups have a right to make a motion. Each political party group has a motion on the proposed set, but if you look at the records from the Presidential Court, you will also see that there are other motions, other than four proposals from the four political parties. So the right of lawmakers to make two motions in the second part of Article 91 has been eliminated according to your application. The right of political party groups to make a motion does not eliminate the possibility of lawmakers to submit two proposals. The political party groups have submitted a motion, so the right of MPs to submit the motion has been lifted. Therefore, I'm guessing that the other proposals that you've been given -- which have not been processed -- are the motions of other political parties -- we have motions as Republican People's Party -- must be processed for each other, sir, by subjecting them to the rules.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0129par0249	Mr. Hamzacebi, I don't know what the other groups' attitude is on this matter, so if you'd like to have a discussion, I'll give my opinion after the procedure debate. Here, I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0131par0251	Well, I want it against you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0129par0252	Here you go. Against you. Lehte?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0132par0254	I want it in favor.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0133par0255	I want it against you, too.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0129par0256	I'll give it to the groups, sir, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0134par0257	Mr. Hamzacebi and Mr. Young are against you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0135par0258	I'd like to talk to you as a group, but it's not mutually exclusive, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0129par0259	Well, Mr. Aydın is in favor, please.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0136par0263	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, we're not doing a new app here. Since this Parliament has worked, it has the right to make the maximum seven motions on every clause in normal law talks, both on the basis of the Civil Code and on the basis of the Parliament's rules. Again, the main law has been limited to four proposals -- which have been discussed as sectionals and proposals -- which have always been in this direction.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0137par0265	How's it gonna be when there's a Civil Code?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0136par0266	So, dear friends, in this manner of discussion, I find the position of the Presidential Court to be correct. As a fundamental law, we're discussing this in two parts, and in this fundamental law that's being discussed, the number of motions on matter is limited to four, I say, thank you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0138par0269	Thank you. Against you, Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0139par0271	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the 91st Article of the Interior Charter, organises how the basic laws will be discussed in the General Assembly. According to the second joke of this clause, when a fundamental law is discussed, the MPs, the main commission or the government can submit amendment proposals. Two motions can be made by MPs on every clause, including the amendment proposals: and the second joke continues: ▪ However, every political party group has the right to make a motion. I interpret it this way: MPs have the right to make two proposals, they can't give more than two, but the fact that they have two motions does not eliminate the right of political party groups to make a motion, each group of political parties also has the right to make a motion. If you interpret this differently, you will eliminate the right of lawmakers who do not belong to a political party group to submit a motion. It is not possible that the Civil Code said that independent lawmakers had no right to propose such a thing; it is against democracy.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0140par0273	It could be a party without a band.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0139par0274	Look, there's been a Supreme Court ruling in the past. Earlier, there was a decree on amendments to the Civil Charter of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 30/6/2005 and 855, that two motions could be submitted by the MPs to each of the provisions, including the amendment proposals to the Constitution. This sentence was cancelled by the Constitutional Court of 21/10/2005, dated 26/10/2005, dated 2005/73. The Constitutional Court says in this decision -- I read the relevant part of it -- that there is no way for the first amendment to create inequality between lawmakers and the commission and the government, although the original commission or the government can make a motion, to limit the number of motions for lawmakers in the second legislature asked to cancel, and to submit the motion to a reasonable reason. Now, can there be inequality between lawmakers who belong to the political party group and MPs who are not members of these groups? Or could the right of a member of that group, other than the political party group, be eliminated? That's not what the Civil Code says. Mr. President, if you insist on your position, this is an actual violation of the Civil Code, a violation of the Civil Code. I'd like you to reconsider your attitude. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0141par0279	Thank you. Now, it's Mehmet Shandır, Mersin MP who wants a word. It's about time. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0142par0283	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers -- I have expressed it yesterday -- are changed according to the requirements, according to the programs, but laws must be changed by staying within the law. If you try to change the law without staying within the law, it's called breaking the law. So what Mr. Hamzacebi has brought up is very clearly written in Article 91 of the Civil Code. There is another clause, and if there is another sentence, it is justified that Mr. President should explain it to the General Assembly. Look -- I'll read the second joke -- the second joke is that the MPs -- they can be independent without specifying a group -- can be the main commission or the government can make amendment proposals. Two proposals can be submitted by lawmakers on the matter, including non-constitutional motions. However, MPs from each political party group have the right to make a motion. It's obvious. Four groups, four motions. Plus, you can have two MPs. If these MPs give a lot of money, they'll draw lots. That's the rule, that's the way it is. This needs to be implemented. It wasn't implemented in previous laws. It wasn't implemented because it wasn't proposed or ignored because it wasn't claimed, but it isn't now. In fact, lawmakers have submitted motions on matter outside the groups, and if these are more than two, if there are more than two motions on each clause, the Council of Presidents shall conduct it by drawing lots between these, according to the Civil Charter 91, it is a decree of the Interior Charter. If you fail to comply, you will violate the Civil Code. It's for your information. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0143par0288	Mr. President, I'm against...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0144par0289	But we made promises before, Mr. Young wanted them.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0143par0290	Who did you give it to, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0144par0291	I gave it to Mr. Young. You didn't get the request. I've looked, and we should even give it to BDP. We said, "You didn't ask for it, Mr. Buldan." Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0145par0294	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, look, we've actually applied this 91st article before. When I was an independent MP, when Mr. Coral Akshener was Deputy Speaker, we applied this. So at the time, sir, we made two motions, each of the groups made a motion. So we've negotiated here, and we've done it. The friends there, the law, they know it, too. Both the groups' motions have been filed and our motion has been implemented, but for some reason, there's an application change every day in this Presidential Court. Friends, the second joke of the 91st article is very clear, saying that both MPs can make a motion. In addition, each group has the right to a motion. There is a copy of this in the 87th article. In Article 87, lawmakers can make seven motions in the law without a basic law. It also says that each group has the right to make a motion. Earlier, before this AKP made this amendment, lawmakers submitted four motions for each joke according to the Civil Code, which was in effect. If there were ten jokes in one article, there were 40 motions, but of course, after you arrived, you cut everything down, your goal is to keep the MPs from talking, but it's so obvious. Now, is there any difference between a member of the group and an independent MP? So the open joke is very clear, but for some reason, here you are, here you are, without negotiating in this commission, after which, by falsifying a report, by the power of your finger, and by bringing it to the Parliament, as well as when a Parliament Speaker was on the stand who had acted objectively before, and since you did not find the courage to bring this report to the stand, you are playing yourself, and you are playing yourself. There's no such app. Earlier, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey gives it according to the 87th amendment when you made the charter amendment. You said, "The Constitutional Court has cancelled this," said: "The four proposals are short." However, a text has been drafted this way, so I need two MPs to make a motion for me. In fact, from now on, we're going to take what you brought in as the basic law to the Constitutional Court for a deformation. How do we get it? The Constitution states that the law can be called off as a form. What does the shape mean -- whether or not the last vote was carried out according to the way it was done? Now, if you bring a fundamental law here as a fundamental law and negotiate like this without negotiating according to the procedure, we will take it. The Constitutional Court is one of yours, but let's see if there's a right or a justice that says, "Well, really, now you don't discuss the law, you don't read the articles, you don't negotiate the articles, you don't negotiate the questions. Lawmakers... that happens in the most primitive societies.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0146par0298	Congressmans, I'd like to brief you on the basis of the clause and the application of our President so far. The drafts and proposals agreed to be discussed as the basic law are discussed by the method of private discussion, and the provisions are carried out in Article 91 of the Civil Code. In this article, there is also a special arrangement for the motion process. According to this arrangement, the MPs, the main commission, or the government, can submit amendment proposals. Two motions can be made on the matter by lawmakers. However, lawmakers of each political party group have the right to make a motion. The grounds for this verdict have been stated: The draft and proposals under Article 91 are required by lawmakers to submit two proposals for each article and the rights of lawmakers from political party groups are reserved. If there are more than two political parties in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, there will be more than two motions given by all political party groups, as lawmakers from each political party group are entitled to make a motion. If the right to a motion on the clause is used by lawmakers belonging to a political party group, it can only be submitted to two motions by lawmakers who are independent of members of the other political party group. If lawmakers from political party groups do not submit motions on the matter, two motions can be made by lawmakers considered independent. For some reason, the right to a motion can only be used by lawmakers of independent and non-grouped political parties if it is not used by lawmakers of party groups. If two and more proposals have been made by lawmakers from political parties, it is not possible for independents and non-group political parties to submit a motion. However, a comment has been made in favour of independent lawmakers and non-group political parties, and these motions have been implemented if the first two motions were in order to be drawn up by independent parties or non-grouped political parties. In fact, as the grounds of the Interior Charter have been explained, if two proposals were submitted by political party groups after the first two motions, these motions would have to be removed due to the limitation of two proposals. Thus, the implementation of our presidency appears to be aimed at protecting the rights of independent lawmakers and non-group political parties. However, after the first two motions have been used by lawmakers members of groups, it is not necessary to say that the motions from independent and non-group political parties are necessary to be implemented, nor is it in accordance with the decision of the Civil Code, nor is it in accordance with the application of our presidency which is already in favour of the independent. Therefore, there is no possibility of processing the motions, so my opinion has not changed.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0147par0307	Whoa! We practiced together. We practiced in your time, brother.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0146par0313	Now, there are three motions on the item, which I'm going to have read by the order of arrival and process according to their discrepancies: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 199 Common Orders Elementary and Education Law and the 1st Amendment to Some Laws We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Article 1 - 5/1/1961 and Article 3 of Article 222 of Elementary and Education Law have been changed in the following way. Article 3-The obligatory elementary school age begins at the end of September of the year when the child finishes 72 months and continues for eight years without interruption. In Article 1 of the 1st Article of the 1st Amendment, we propose that "6-13" be changed to "6-14" and "5" as "6" as "6" as "14" as in "14" as in "14" as in "15." Pervin Buldan İstiye Birtane Nursel Aydoğan Fair Wolf Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Levent Corporate Erol Dora Emine Mirror Aysel Tuğluk Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Halil Aksoy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of Justice and Education's Law and Rize MP Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı; Justice and Development Party MP Ahmet Aydın and Şamoramash MP Mahir Ünal; Vice President of the Constitution and Vice President of the Constitutional Court; Minister of Justice and 2 MPs of the Security Institutions of the Constitution; Minister of the Constitution and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State; Ministers of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council; Minister of State of State of State of State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of State and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State and the Council of State of State and the Council of the Council of State and the Council of State of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Constitution and the State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State and the Constitution and the Constitution; Mehmet Şandir Oktay Vural Özcan Yeniçeri Zühal Topcu Lütfu Türkkan Mustafa Erdem Scholar Light Ahmet Duran Bulut "Article 3 of Elementary and Education Law No. 222, dated 1-5/1/1961, has been changed as follows. "The 3-Nation begins its pre-school mandatory education at the end of 60-72 months (at the end of September 5 years of age, at the end of the school year at the end of her 6th year), and the mandatory elementary school age begins in September of the year when the child finishes six years of age, and ends at the end of the school year at the end of the year of his 14th and the year of his 15th." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0148par0343	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0146par0344	Mustafa Erdem on the motion, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0149par0347	Mr. President, I have made a pledge by the National Movement Party on the amendment to the 1st Amendment. I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to point out that one thing is useful. During his response to the questions asked, this law proposal seems to be opening the door of this society forever, expressing that it does not offer a no for this nation, that it may be subject to a change at any moment, that it may be lacking in itself, and that a new bill will then be drawn up. So we're wondering, then, what is the wisdom of this law, which is unpredictable, whose origin is uncertain, but is a law that raises society by means of various means of communication and interaction in public? A second issue: The goal of this law is that our children be raised well, to be made a useful generation, to their homeland, to their nation, to their religion, to their state, and especially to their family. But it seems that the reflections of social polarization also appear under the roof of this great Assembly - the future of these children is being mortgaged in a mood that can be called good and bad and good. I don't think there's any common sense in this new system of construction, specifically called 4+4+4, that the age of education has been reduced to six, and I don't know how useful it is for the future of these children to come out here and explain it. If the laws imported from someone else are to be put into practice by reviewing the basic properties of the Turkish community, we're willing to agree, but someone did this, because someone said, "We're going to mortgage the children of this nation's future, if we can't guarantee its future, it's a law that doesn't match our values." In particular, if our children need to be subjected to a six-year-old education, it needs to be in the form of a kindergarten, and to the extent that our children can somehow embrace the whole layers of society, as a basis for social justice, social value and social maturity, in 60 months, in order to include the principle of equality and opportunity in education. Here's what I particularly want to emphasize: that when we train our children, children from different social areas, from different economic and cultural environments, immediately throw them into a training hoop before they turn six, and we try to influence their future within a system of law. If charity is to be done, then innocent Turkish children with different cultural and economic resources, who are unable to benefit from equality of opportunity should also be subject to education under the principle of kindergarten and they should benefit from the equality of opportunities. Saint lawmakers, we are a society in the family that takes education and shapes children by the values of the family. So even if it's possible, even if it's possible, all families can do this basic education, kindergarten opportunities to their children in their own family, on their own values, on their own cultural assets, then I think there's no need for this chaos, this chaos. I want to draw your attention to another thing: the quality of education is extremely important to talent. Now you're talking about a FATIH Project. Yesterday, I said: "A project that is not filled is not FATH, even if it is legal, it may not be appropriate." Now you will bring your children... and I don't know the economics, nor do I. I'm innocent of that, too; I'm not dirty, thank God. However, you will bring in this FATIH Project and impose it on a child who has not turned six and has just turned five. You're going to have 20 or 30 students in these classrooms, and then you're going to leave a lot of babies there with their fate, because they're not going to figure out what the radiation is, but someone's going to get a three-cent runt. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0150par0358	Your Grace, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0151par0362	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0150par0363	Yeah, he's got a roll call.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0152par0364	Mr. President, I asked for your word.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0150par0365	Mr. Earth, when the motion on Article 1 is completed, I promise you, I will ask.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0152par0366	No, but I'd like a word on that.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0150par0367	Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Tüğüt, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Ayadın, Mr. Ören, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Öner, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Calkavan, Mr. Topal, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Agha, Mr. Gütün, Mr. Sütül, Mr. Sütütütün, Mr. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes again: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0153par0377	According to Article 60, I have a brief request, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0150par0378	Dear Earth, what did you want to say? At your place, please.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0154par0380	Thank you, Mr. President, but I wish you'd promised me before the vote. Because that's exactly what this is about. Now, the word here in the 6-13-year-old group of elementary schools in the 1st article here is wrong, it's 5-12...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0150par0382	Mr. Earth, remember, we haven't voted on the clause, we're still voting on the motions.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0154par0383	Is that so, sir? Okay. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0150par0385	I thank you. Mr. Young, you've been asked to pick on me. What did the Minister say and pick on you? Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0155par0388	I asked him a question, instead of answering my question, he said: "Let him explain his wealth. Now, I said that when he was a professor, he took information from someone else's book, which is plagiarism...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0150par0390	Here, two minutes, I promise. Just don't give me another pick-me-up.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0155par0391	But he doesn't exist.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0156par0392	Then talk later.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0155par0395	Mr. President, not to mention the high-profile lawmakers, not to mention the slander and leave. Now, here's the thing: this is the person you put in charge of the Ministry of National Education who stole information from someone else when he was writing a book...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0157par0398	How many times has he explained it before, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0158par0399	He's explained it a hundred times!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0155par0400	Wait a minute... After that...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0159par0402	Mr. Young, please, but... look, just in case there's any more bullying...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0155par0403	Wait a minute, I'm gonna give you... He stole it and then...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0159par0405	Please...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0155par0406	Well, then the NGO got the title of professor.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0159par0407	Please... it's been discussed, talked about a lot.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0155par0408	This has sued the State, and his case against the State has been rejected. But then, after five years, when a PDC was formed, according to you, after five years, he went again, as if there was no decision, as if there was no suicide charge, he was reinstated as a professor. I'm asking him now...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0160par0410	Explain your assets!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0155par0411	Are you going to answer, or is he?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0160par0412	Explain your assets in Aksaray.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0155par0413	After that, I say, "How did he lift it when there was a court order, and you were stealing information?"
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0160par0414	What authority did the German man give you?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0155par0415	He won't answer me, he says: explain your assets. I'm ready to explain your assets.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0161par0416	Then why don't you explain it?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0160par0417	Explain how the German man felt!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0155par0418	Let Erdogan explain, and Mustafa Elitaş explain, and all of you who have struck a great deal out of your tender. (CHP clapping) He's an unexplainable bastard, and he's an asshole who stops explaining. Let's go!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0161par0419	Why don't you explain?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0160par0420	Explain your assets!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0155par0421	But not in two minutes like this. Come on, let's go. We'll all explain on a TV show. But how can he now be the richest Prime Minister in the world when he's sitting in the slums? And with this law, you open the door to a $100 billion payday.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0160par0422	Who do we open it to?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0155par0423	Now, when you're on your way, you'll tell me, Mr. Tayyip, that we've opened our eyes to you for $100 billion, and you'll say, "Enjoy your meal." (CHEERING) That's what this is all about. So, let him come. First let him explain what I said. I mean, don't run...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0160par0424	Your job is to eat and drink, and that's all you know.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0155par0425	Mustafa Elitaş, I have asked you to read...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0160par0427	What you've been doing for 30 years, you're framing others.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit02spe0162par0428	Thank you, Mr. Young. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0162par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the discussion of Proposition 199. [[Continue]] The commission and the government are in place. Now, I'm going to read the other motion on Article 1: In Article 1 of the 1st Article of the 1st Amendment, we propose that "6-13" be changed to "6-14" and "5" as "6" as "6" as "14" as in "14" as in "14" as in "15." Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0163par0016	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0162par0017	Erol Dora, Mardin MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0164par0019	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion made by the Party for Peace and Democracy on Article 1 of the Law on First Amendment to the First and Education Act of 199, and to some Laws. I salute you all. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are very interested in the education system of that country, in what state a country is in. A country that lacks a quality and effective educational system cannot succeed in anything. To become a democratic, economic and socially developed country, education reform should be a priority for creativity, innovation, critical thinking, research, analytical and foreign skills. In order for our children to become good citizens of the world, it is also important for them to be educated in things such as environmental awareness, gender equality, human rights, multiculturalism. In the process of democratisation, reaching a well-trained, pluralistic, liberal society must be the main goal. The second joke of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, where our country is a party, states that education should be aimed at perfecting the human personality and strengthening the basic freedoms of human rights. Education should encourage understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations, races and religious communities, and improve the United Nations' efforts to maintain peace. The bill offered to the Turkish Grand National Assembly is not clear how to reach these goals. The law proposal is discussed in public among different electives in the second level of primary school, where religious lessons are envisioned. Religious education can serve freedom of religion and conscience if determined by a process that reflects the variety of beliefs in society, which it is optional for. Thus, these lessons need to be in a context that does not fuel hatred among children, envisioning peace and brotherhood. In this context, there must be a sense of understanding that aims to promote mutual respect and understanding between different religions, including disbelief, and religions, without hatred speech, and with regard to fundamental education in religion. The law proposal we're talking about is of great importance when mandatory education is extended, while pre-school education is included in mandatory education. There is no regulation in the proposal of the law. Pre-school education, however, is necessary to reduce socioeconomic inequality and differences in our country, especially to ensure that children from low socioeconomic environments stay in school longer, and to increase their success at school. Scientific studies comparing the costs of pre-school education showed that the benefits of preschool education are 6-7 times greater than the cost. Rapid technological changes require that everyone in society have a strong basic education and skills to adapt to this change. This is important in terms of increasing our competitiveness. However, the law proposal includes risks such as the withdrawal of vocational guidance to early age, lack of basic education and skills, and choice of unconscious professions. It also contradicts the policies of other European Union countries regarding delaying professional guidance. It should also take into account the shortcomings of an arrangement that will result in the reduction of the age of apprentice to eleven. A law proposal to promote vocational education and aim to raise a cheap and qualified reserve labour force for capital ignores the fact that most vocational high school graduates in our country are doing minimum wage jobs outside of work or studying. First, the basic problems of education must be solved, the physical, social infrastructure of schools must be strengthened, education workers must be paid a human fee, obstacles to education in the main language must be removed, education must be restored to an open and free structure. Only then can projects for the use of technology really achieve its goal and improve quality in education. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, one of the biggest flaws in the proposal is the fact that education in the state schools is without money in the current law that has been removed from the proposal of the new law. This provision, which will pave the way for financial education, contradicts the principle of our Constitution as a social state. I salute you all again. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0165par0032	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 199 Common Orders Elementary and Education Law and the 1st Amendment to Some Laws We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Article 1 - 5/1/1961 and Article 3 of Article 222 of Elementary and Education Law have been changed in the following way. Article 3-The obligatory elementary school age begins at the end of September of the year when the child finishes 72 months and continues for eight years without interruption. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0166par0044	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0165par0045	Metin Lütfi Baydar, Aydın MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0167par0048	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on the 1st Amendment. I'll tell you a short story: polar bears living in the vast polar region are one of the cutest animals in the world of mammals in their large and slightly yellow, white furs. The extraordinary beauty of these calm, white giants has been an indisputable material for us human beings. We often see them in various logos, posters, and ads. I wish what we knew about them was limited to these beauties. The way polar bears hunt by us humans is in a way that freezes your blood. The hunter, who wants to hunt the bear, burys the blade on the snow as thin as a razor blade and pours water around it to freeze it and stabilize it. Then a fresh animal spills its blood on the blade and lays in its earlier ambush. As soon as the smell of blood spreads, a polar bear approaches the trap, starts licking fresh blood as soon as it sees it. The thin blade cuts out the bear's tongue and the tongue bleeds. However, due to the coldness of the environment and the knife, the bear cannot detect the knife and its own tongue. The more blood he sees, the higher his appetite he attacks the blood. Every time he tries, his tongue breaks a little bit more, and it turns into a bloodbath. The bear's desperate blood-sucking sessions eventually wear out and bleeds to death. The Slayer is on stage now. He got the undamaged fur without any trouble. What we have left of this story is the disappointment that people will suffer in making their day without thinking about their future. Isn't a student who doesn't study well, a public official who doesn't do his job seriously, an official who takes bribes, a scientist who doesn't contribute to his country, or a politician like us, a citizen who lives a life without merit, actually drains his own blood or future? I hope that the friends of the Justice Development Party, who are trying to get this bill out of Congress without creating a public debate, will learn and learn from this story as we all do. Pre-school education is not fit for scientific data on the development and education of the child, with a one-year early start-up period and a pre-school education excluded from mandatory education. The hand muscles of a 60-month-old child have not developed to hold a pencil. The ability to concentrate and concentrate is not enough so that he can study. The age of starting primary school is required to be considered as those who have completed two months, considering the child's physiological development. Preschool education is considered the most important policy tool in the world to fight social inequality. Studies in Turkey show long and lasting positive effects of pre-school education on children with limited socioeconomic possibilities. A study that tracks pre-school education from 1982 to 2004 shows that children who benefit from preschool education stay in school longer and are more successful academically. According to another study, the benefits of preschool education are six to seven times the cost. The AKP, on the other hand, says that even pre-school education, accepted by the entire world, is costly in the sense of a merchant, and instead, we will reduce the age of primary education to six. Education cannot be defined by the concept of the esnectic (e.g., which is used to define market relations). On the one hand, a human resource that will carry the qualities of the age must be first trained by the understanding of the strong and the universal values of the good citizen, the good individual, and the well-equipped human compounds. In this context, girls are disadvantaged members of our educational system. In particular, it is not a good political choice for girls in rural and poor urban areas to be kept only in the education system. Any structural change in the education system should reflect the common mind of all actors in training. The 4+4+4 system cannot be legalized by an unpublicized educational decision. The system that's being brought in is already a puzzle board, lost its soul. The Ministry of National Education, unable to plan its own future, has become a classic government office, which is responsible for implementing the models set in front of it. This institution is run by a minister who says, "Get yourself another job, we'll shut down education schools." AKP, with this bill... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Instead of a comprehensive discussion of the problems of education that need to be considered much broader, he narrowly reduced the eight to two. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0168par0063	Thank you, Mr. Baydar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0169par0066	Mr. President, you promised me before the 1st Amendment.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0168par0067	There are three motions on the 2nd article, which I shall have read and process according to their contradictions according to the order of their arrival.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0169par0068	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0168par0069	Here you go, Mr. Land.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0169par0070	Before we took a break, you promised me you'd give me a vote on the clause.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0168par0071	Dear Earth, I understand. You've said your piece, it's already been filed.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0169par0072	No, I didn't say what I was gonna say.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0168par0073	We don't have that kind of procedure anyway. We have no way of promising you. Why?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0169par0074	No, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0168par0075	But you want words on the motions...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0169par0076	No, sir. What I was going to say was, for one thing, six years there is wrong. If you'll excuse me, can I say it on the microphone? Besides, Fikri Il Bey came -- where he sat, I don't know -- promised to change this clause here. I'd like to announce that, please. I trusted that because you promised me.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0168par0078	No, I promised. I think you have something to say, Mr. Earth.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0169par0079	No, sir, you cut it without saying anything.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0168par0080	Thank you. There's nothing we can do, Mr. Earth.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0169par0081	Where are you thanking me, sir? You have to give me my say. No way!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0168par0082	Yes, I'm reading the first motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of Justice and Education's Law and Rize MP Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı; Justice and Development Party MP Ahmet Aydın and Şamoramash MP Mahir Ünal; Vice President of the Constitution and Vice President of the Council of Justice and Education; Minister of Justice and 2 Commissioners of the Constitution; Minister of State of State of State of State and the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Mehmet Şandir Oktay Vural Özcan Yeniçeri Mehmet Günal Zuhal Topcu Lütfu Türkkan Ahmet Duran Bulut Alim Light "Article 7 of Article 2-222 has been changed as follows. "Made 7- Elementary is a National Education and Teaching institution established to fulfill the purpose stated in Article 1 and consisting of five years of mandatory elementary school and three years of mandatory secondary school." Congressmans, now that the motions I'm going to read are in the same context, I'm going to process the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment or I'm going to have the motions read separately. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 199 Common Orders Elementary and Education Law and the 2nd Amendment to Some Laws We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Hasan Ören Muharrem İnce Ali Serindağ Pervin Buldan İstiye Birtane Nursel Aydoğan Emine Mirror Halil Aksoy Abdullah Levent Tüzel Fair Wolf Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0170par0111	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0168par0112	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0171par0113	Dear Ali Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0168par0114	Ali Serindağ, Gaziantep MP, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Serindağ, there's another name here, and that's why we talked. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0172par0118	They're not strangers, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0173par0119	You didn't promise Mr. Earth, he was very upset.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0174par0120	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. President, now that Hazreti Ali has a saying, he says: "The way this proposal comes to parliament is wrong, the way it is discussed in the commissions is wrong, the way it is addressed in the Parliamentary General Assembly is wrong. The proposal has been made several times outside the National Ministry of Education, where the National Education bureaucrats are unaware of it, and even the Minister is unaware of it. In fact, Mr. Secretary, where does this come from in the Commission meeting? What did the bureaucrats say to who? How did our bureaucrats not know? Now, Mr. Secretary, you don't know either. The newspaper Vatan, dated 1/3/2012: Minister of National Education Ömer Dinçer called Ahmet Altan. He made statements, such as a confession about the new educational system, which envisioned 4+4+4. He said the AKP Parliament Group did this project, not the Ministry. Then he talked for a long time, explaining how the 4+4+4 system became 8+4 when he convinced the Prime Minister. And it goes on. Which means you don't know, and you don't know. Now, Mr. Secretary, the education system is very important, education is an activity that shapes our future. That's the way the education system doesn't change with every minister changing. The education system arises as a result of long studies, long trials, pilot regions are declared, a new education system is developed. What did you do? You didn't do that. We woke up one morning, and there was a law proposal with the signature of 5 members of the AKP Group Vice President. You know, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has not done its part in this matter. For one thing, the Turkish Grand National Assembly is being stripped of its legal authority. How do you take it? Turkey's Grand National Assembly specialisation commissions do not discuss legislation and proposals as they should. 20 articles of this proposal were discussed within 24 minutes, no one was promised. What did the Speaker say after that? I'm reading the transcripts myself, so I'll make a decision. Well, if the Speaker doesn't have any authority, why do I read the papers, and I'll decide according to him? What did he do after that? After that, he sent the objections to the President of the Commission as well as the letter from the President of the Commission to the General Assembly. The presidency also processed the article to the General Assembly, bringing the proposal to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly. Is that even possible? Is this the way to discuss an offer that shapes our future, guides our future, guides us to how our future will be shaped? And, Mr. Secretary, you're misinformation the community. The Republican People's Party is not opposed to 12 years of mandatory education. Leave it now, it's rude, it's unbecoming. We support 1+8+4, and we say: let there be 13 years of mandatory education, 13 years of mandatory education, but let's not interrupt mandatory education, let's maintain basic education, let's get our children in professional direction after basic education. You give that kind of misinformation to society. We are opposed to furthering this law, to division of basic education. And what you're saying, sir, is that we're changing the tank and the ball in democratic ways. This didn't come with the tank, the cannon, the rifle.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0175par0127	He's in the tank, he's here with the ball.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0174par0128	Look at the decisions of the National Education Centre in 1996, then there's not even the essence of February 28th. (AK PARTY) Do not say February 28th, the Government of Prosperity is at work, May 1996; do not say "Varvar." Do you know who became Minister of National Education in May 1996 and who became Minister of Education two months later? Mehmet Satın is among you right now. Mehmet Sütın was Minister of National Education.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0176par0130	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0177par0131	It could be, it's been wronged, it's been corrected!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0174par0132	You're misinformation the community, sir, not misinformation the community, inform the community properly. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0178par0135	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0179par0136	It's Fair Wolf, Hakkari MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0180par0138	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The law proposal we're discussing is far more important and priority than any law we can make here, since it concerns the future of all of our children in Turkey. So, when we're discussing this law here, we have to raise our hand after we've really discussed what's right and what's wrong, but when we're doing this, we're putting a new system in front of our kids from tomorrow, a new model of education, and in fact, we're doing this first without any physical infrastructure. Adeta is fucked on the road. It's a law proposal prepared with an understanding of it. And here, we accept this law proposal by raising our hand in a manner of arguing over it, regardless of its content, without drawing attention to its problems. In fact -- this bill that we're discussing in the field -- without a fundamental solution to education issues, without discussing the solution to problems -- you'll cause chaos in schools the day after tomorrow. (x) The correction of this statement is found on page 866, dated 29/3/2012, and is found on page 866. I'd like to ask the Minister: which of our schools' physical conditions is appropriate when we start the next school year with the 4+4+4 system? With what educational profile did this problem or the logic of this system have been arranged to help children understand its logic? Prepared for what? When you go to such a radical system change without any physical infrastructure preparation in any way, you cause chaos in schools. In order for this system to happen, the physical conditions of schools must first be changed. This is not just a debate over vocational schools and other straight schools. As long as the physical conditions of schools and educational profiles aren't designed to suit that, whatever law you make here, whatever system you bring in, you can't be the solution. A shapely arrangement and this formatal arrangement, unfortunately, is just a custom of saying hello to the voters. This arrangement, which deals with him, which deals with his past, and rusts with each other in this dimension, is playing with the future of our children, putting dynamite in our children's future, leading our children into uncertainty. We have to take into account how children will be affected by this ambiguity; Parliament needs to take into account, the Ministry of National Education needs to take into account, the bureaucrats need to take into account. When you put such a radical change in front of children, educators, without any arrangement, no physical arrangement, no technical infrastructure prepared, you cause serious trouble. You can't answer that in school tomorrow. You can't eliminate this problem by gathering national education directors, idealizing the system, telling them. You, today, as you've brought up this proposal for a change -- which the Minister has just expressed -- are admitting that the system has been brought up as a broken system, a system that has yet to be accepted. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0181par0146	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of Justice and Education's Law and Rize MP Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı; Justice and Development Party MP Ahmet Aydın and Şamoramash MP Mahir Ünal; Vice President of the Constitution and Vice President of the Council of Justice and Education; Minister of Justice and 2 Commissioners of the Constitution; Minister of State of State of State of State and the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends Article 7 of Law 2-222 has been changed as follows. Article 7- Elementary is a National Education and Teaching Institution established in Article 1 to fulfill its purpose in Article 1 and consisting of mandatory elementary school and mandatory secondary school for three years." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0182par0157	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0181par0158	Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0183par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, in this motion, we've offered a change of plans to relieve the difficulty of its descent into four years. As the National Movement Party, the gradual education was a proposal that was in our programme, not today, in our statements, but we have made a motion that its contents be five years in accordance with our previous views, in the face of this unquestionably ending. Dear friends, when this is given -- Mr. Secretary knows, and we get emails all the time, and we get e-mails, and you get -- the shortage of class teachers -- most of them will be out in the open right now. On the other hand, some needs for major teachers will have to be met immediately, and work on them will have to be done immediately. In these circumstances, I'd like to present to you the attention that education will fail and quality will decline. Dear friends, it's a very important law here, but it's an offer again, and we're discussing it. Mr. Secretary was just here, about the cost of the project, but... there's Mr. Lightning again, I see. Now, let's go upstairs...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0184par0168	Behind you, behind you...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0183par0169	Yeah, it's this way. I didn't want to tell you, Mr. Lightning is this way. There are costs reflected in the press here, dear friends. In the Budget Commission, when we're going to transfer money to a small, victimized population in the smallest of things, the IRS is giving us hours of anxiety. Now, how is it that in a multibillion-dollar project, you come up with an offer, in the form of a bill, in the form of a bill, even in the form of an offer -- our friends have added it up, and then we've been taken out, and I don't even know about it -- including the appointment of members of the board? Now, would something so radical come up with an offer of law?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0185par0171	It's against the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0183par0172	After that, you bring it up, sir, and let the things taken under the FATIH Project be excluded from taxes here. You're coming up with a freaky proposal that doesn't know which one's going where. The Ministry of Finance has begun to say yes. So, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: something new about TEPAV has been published, and it says it's going to cost 18, 20, on average, 30 or so if we put it all in. Separate classrooms, teaching needs, the location of those classrooms, all the equipment, how do we afford them? So how many years do you expect to move on to this? It's a law proposal signed by two of our friends. Now, Mr. Secretary, I've just seen you respond, and this FATIH Project is saying nice things about you, but we're looking at the cost, so this is a lot cheaper than you're buying, so you have a chance to get a notebook, not a tablet. Of course, the State Supplies Office does not belong to the Republic of Turkey, but to the AKP Government of State Supplies, as if they are taking it from space. Is that even possible? Mr. Secretary says, since there's no domestic production yet, we've already submitted these. I mean, you say not 500, not 400, but 8,800, but on the other hand, we're looking at 5,000, and the other one's over 7,000... how about now? If they did something like this in another tender, there'd be a lot of investigation into that officer. Isn't it obvious that you have a condition? Isn't it obvious what features you want, Minister? If you're going to experiment, you take a few samples of this, you don't take 4,800. Now, you take 4,800, and then we'll try to... Well, who's paying the $200 difference? Where do you get it from? So it's not your responsibility? As Minister of National Education, aren't you a member of the government? Isn't the State Supplies Office up to you? I'm really surprised. On the other hand -- Mr. Bozdağ was just here -- and now, there's a motion for religious education. I looked, Mr. Bozdağ, who had left the political part I asked the masters, I disagreed with what Mr. Bahçeli said about this martyrship, and he says they may be martyrs. And you know what the reason for that is? ▪ It is not a definition of martyrdom that we make. I asked the masters about it. What is it? What isn't? Now, the teacher asks the masters, but the President of Religious Affairs is doing politics, and he's not dealing with it. I'm going to preach on the ground in Kurdish, and I'm going to do this over here, and I'm against February 28th. So the clergy are involved in politics, and the politicians are trying to solve it by referring to religious matters. What I'm saying is, if he sat down and looked at them instead of asking them himself, what Mr. President said was, as a position of office, that this was not to be discussed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The government says they can transfer their victims from other sources if they want to, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0186par0181	Thank you, Mr. Günal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 2 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on the third article, which I will have read according to the order of arrival and process according to their contradictions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Justice and Development Party Deputy Chiefs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Heromarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of the First Education and Development Act for Change in Some Laws; Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's proposal to make changes in the Law of Higher Education Institutions; Justice and Development Party MP Mustafa Elitaş; Vice President of Turkey's Assembly and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and Development; Ministers of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and Development; Ministers of Justice and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Constitution; We would like to request the addition of the Imam Hatip Middle School declaration and the release of the second sentence from the article text. Oktay Vural Zuhal Topcu Alim Light Mustafa Erdem Mehmet Şandir Lütfu Türkkan Congressmans, now that the motions I'm going to read are in the same context, I'm going to process the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 199 Common Orders Elementary and Education Act and the 3rd Amendment to Some Laws. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Fatma Nur Serter Recep Gürkan Pervin Buldan Property One Fair Wolf Nursel Aydoğan İdris Bauken Emine Mirror Levent Tuzel Halil Aksoy Aysel Tuğluk Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Hasip Kaplan Sebahat Tuncel Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motions of the same nature? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0187par0209	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0186par0210	Sebahat Tuncel, İstanbul MP, asking for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0188par0211	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on Article 3 of Law Proposal 199. I salute you all. Congressmans, while we are here to discuss this proposal of the law, the Public Workers' Union (KESK) has expressed objections to this bill, both outside and in the street. Despite the cold, laborers from all parts of Turkey, eighty-one provinces came to Ankara today to present their criticism of this law, 4+4+4, at least to present its proposals, at least to be heard, but unfortunately, by order of the Minister of Interior, the workers were again confronted with law enforcement forces, gas, pressured with water. This is, in fact, an indication of the AKP government's approach to workers; rather than listening to them, listening to their demands, how I can push them down. So the way he's acting on the street, actually, the power is acting here. We can't even have a proper discussion about a matter that concerns Turkey, about education, about our children, about our future. I have a numerical majority, I have power, I do what I want, I do what I want, I do what I want, I make you work as much as I want. Here's an approach to your approach. So there's a baton on the street, and there's another bullying on us. That's not an acceptable point. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to ask the ruling lawmakers: If we had discussed this for a month, would it have been apocalypse? Are we changing our education system tomorrow, so that's still in time for this period? We're trying to make it to 2012-2013. That's all the time in the bag? Why are we smuggling stuff from a fire? What's the motive? Why don't we convince the community? Why don't we discuss our children for a matter that concerns our future? Why don't we listen to the unions? Why don't we listen to the education workers who are standing on the street today, in the Security Park, and why are they objecting? Now, getting this proposal out of here quickly without a debate about this is actually about the fact that the AKP government is covering Turkey's real agenda. Because we're talking about 4+4, Mr. Prime Minister is having some talks in the United States, and today in Iran; I wonder what will lead Turkey into a new regional war, not a question of what. Otherwise, we could argue for another month here. There was no need to cause such a fuss on the commission. If we're really doing something in favor of society, if we can convince them at this point, why are we rushing society, why are we creating polarities in society? Now, this is a serious problem, which should be answered by the AKP government. So if we really discussed the 4+4+4 thing more strongly, maybe if we were to offer our proposals as opposition, you'd have a numerical majority again, if you didn't like it, you'd be able to put your hand down again and get this bill out, but this time you'd be arguing in society, you'd be arguing in public. It's still not discussed, Congressmans, there's still no discussion of what this law brings in or what it brings in. Now we're from the community workers, we can't discuss the content of this law. They say, "We couldn't offer our views, our suggestions in this turmoil." Now, if this Commission had called all the education workers, called the parties, listened to the political parties, wouldn't we have found a better outcome here? Now, before you can answer that, the bill made here is not legitimate, in the eyes of the public, by force of the AKP government. He's using his numerical majority, using his power over security, to cut off the sound on the street. There's nothing here, there's no democracy, there's no human rights, there's no freedoms, but I wish we could talk about our education problems here. So before this bill, before we set up elementary school, middle school, high school separately independent, what problems we have here, whether there's infrastructure or not, how will this budget be, how do we solve the problems that we have in education today? It's not just the problem of power, it's the problem of education, it's also our problem. Why won't you let me? I've done it. The approach is not acceptable, lawmakers. So what do we do? If you're really sincere about this, you'll withdraw this proposal from here, a process of discussion, in a month's time, let's discuss it together, and we'll discuss it together in two months. We don't know why you're getting so nervous. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Once again, I send our regards from here to our public workers who want to discuss our education system today, who have come to Ankara to express their opinion on this matter. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0189par0223	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. Now, it's Fatma Nur Serter, Istanbul MP who wants to talk about the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Serker.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0190par0227	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made on the 3rd Amendment. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers play a crucial role in our talks on this law and in particular the reasons for bringing it up; February 28, 1997. The Prime Minister said February 28th has prepared a law to eliminate the destruction created, so that the victims will be given their rights by this law. Dear MPs, who was Minister of National Education on February 28, 1997? Does anyone know who it was? Does anyone know who it was, sir?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0191par0230	Mehmet Secret.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0190par0231	Is it possible that the Minister of National Education is in this room right now? Well, doesn't the fact that February 28th was never promised to the Minister of National Education, under which a Minister of National Education signed under the decisions of the MGK, as well as a deputy member of the AKP, as well as the Deputy Chairman of the Turkish Grand National Assembly? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Minister of National Education, I assume I don't mean these decisions -- I don't mean the others -- but wouldn't it be necessary for him to have internalized this decision when he signed at least under eight years of uninterrupted education? Otherwise, no one will be forced to sign a decision they don't want. The seat isn't that important, it's much more important to people to defend their values. If it's a wrong decision, you get up, you hand over the seat to someone else, but you don't sign it. Therefore, I think that the Minister of Education at that time was also greatly unfair to the AKP.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0192par0234	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0190par0235	At least he should have had his point of view, since he signed on to eight years of mandatory, uninterrupted training. Now, about the second issue, about our views on the motion. Really, dear lawmakers, we're discussing a law that comes out of Pandora's box that you don't expect when you open it. Let those who know what comes out of Pandora's box tell those who do not know. One minute, when the law is being drafted, we ask the reason for the 4+4, and we're told: "Don't let small and older children read in the same building, but let's separate the buildings." Good, we accept, we see reason. Right behind him, Mr. Minister says: "The 4+4" has nothing to do with -- there is -- the separation of buildings, the separation of 4+4 syllabus. The subcommittee, Mr. Fikri Light, says: "No, I do not agree with the Minister's opinion, the departure of these buildings. Just as you can't write in the 1st article, you've never told the truth here, just as you wrote in the sum of the first and middle school, the first and middle school, and you've made a mathematical mistake, as you've hidden the truth from the public. Why didn't you share the true answer of 4+4 with Turkey, with people, with people, with children, with young people, with families?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0193par0240	The public knows! The public knows!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0190par0241	Dear friends, dear lawmakers, what is the difference between 6 and 13? Seven is seven, seven is There is no law in which you can say, "6" and say, "I don't know, I don't know, where he went when he was 5 years old." You can't write down five, you're afraid of the people, you'll be more afraid of them! You'll be so scared!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0194par0243	Mr. Serker, thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0195par0245	He's hit hard, won't he answer? Is he not going to answer?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0194par0247	One moment, Mr. Slim, let me put the motion to your votes. I submit the same motions to your votes:
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0196par0249	Mr. Serter picked on Mr. Secret.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0197par0250	That's a good one. What's a tease? He's got it. What a tease!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0194par0251	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0196par0252	Mr. President, there's a taunt, won't he answer?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0194par0253	The motions are not accepted. Mr. Sütın, in your written application, said I was Minister of National Education while recommending the CHP MP 4+4+4 system. This is wrong. It was done in May 96, and I became Minister in June 1996. Would you let me fix it? You're saying. Why did he pick on you?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0198par0256	I wasn't Minister at the time.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0194par0258	Aren't you the Minister at the time?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0198par0259	The last speaker made the same mistake.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0199par0260	He hit it hard.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0194par0261	The last speaker made the same mistake, is that what you're saying?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0198par0262	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0194par0263	Yes, Mr. President. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0200par0266	Mr. Secret, tell me if they forced you to sign it. Did they make you sign it?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0201par0269	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, a member of the Republican People's Party, were Mehmet Strict Minister of Education at the time of which they had just made a recommendation.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0202par0270	It's not 4+4.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0201par0271	There was a mistake here because I was the Minister of National Education, not in May 1996, but in the Government of Welfare, which was established in June 1996. So it was done in May before I became Minister. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Secondly...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0203par0274	There wasn't a 4+4 then.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0201par0275	One second, sir... one second... Secondly, Mr. Serter, who spoke earlier, said that since his signature was under uninterrupted training as Minister of National Education, we should ask him, too. True, he is being wronged there, but Mr. Serter, who has done injustice because we have already opposed the Law on Welfare, which has been denied, and the law of uninterrupted education has been passed in August 1997.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0204par0277	Who was the minister on February 28th?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0201par0278	The end of our Welfare Government was June 1997. For your information.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0205par0281	You can't escape! We're singing February 28th, Mr. Secret.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0206par0282	Don't run, don't run! Don't run, tell the truth! Don't run! Come here.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0205par0283	Don't run, come here!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0206par0284	Don't run! Come here!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0205par0285	You can't escape! I didn't say "Shurra." I said "February 28th."
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0207par0286	Mr. Tütin, is that a way of speaking? Can you refer to the MP as running away? Please...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0206par0287	Mr. President, wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0207par0288	Dear Mr. Hard-on...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0206par0289	Wait a minute, let's make a deal. He didn't say "Shurra," he said "February 28th." Who was founded after welfare? Don't twist it like that!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0208par0290	Mr. President, under February 28th, the Minister of National Education doesn't sign. What's with the Minister's signature?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0206par0291	No curling! He'll stand up straight, he'll come here! Don't twist it like that.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0208par0292	The Minister can't sign.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0209par0293	Thank you. Mr. Ünal, have a seat.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0210par0295	It's okay. You're already a party for those who left their party thanks to February 28th!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0211par0296	The architect of February 28th is now a libertine!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0212par0297	You know the story of February 28th. Don't mess with the old books!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0211par0298	Look, Chiller, there's an explanation. Ciller says that yesterday, we signed with Minister of National Education Mehmet Sütın. Here are the explanations. I'll bring them in right now.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0213par0305	Yes, I'm reading the other motion: The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Justice and Development Party Deputy Chiefs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Heromarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of the First Education and Development Act for Change in Some Laws; Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's proposal to make changes in the Law of Higher Education Institutions; Justice and Development Party MP Mustafa Elitaş; Vice President of Turkey's Assembly and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and Development; Ministers of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and Development; Ministers of Justice and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Constitution; We would like to add the phrase "Imam Hatip Middle School" to come after the declaration of middle school in the Article and remove the second sentence from the text of matter. Oktay Vural (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0214par0312	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0213par0313	Celal Adan, İstanbul MP, has asked for a statement on the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Adan.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0215par0316	Mr. President, by May 11, 1997 -- the inhabitants of Istanbul know that every Sunday morning, on Sunday morning, 10,000 people in Eyüp Sultan put up a will to keep the imam-members, and on May 11, 1997, the holding hands of the imam-hatiplers held a rally of 1 million people at Sultanahmet Square; the oppressed were right. On that day of the 1 million-person rally, I have very dear friends there who put their hearts into it. There, on that day, they were with the Imams. I'd like to share with you one thing: if there were two bad things in the world, February 28th, and on the other side, as bad as you can imagine, you can be sure that the National Movement Party will not be next to February 28th. Just like he threw away his 367 condition. (Applause from MHP rows) Just as he joined the veil with 70 MPs. Now, I've been watching the matter from here and there. You politicalized a scientific issue, the Prime Minister politicalized it in the first place. In his talks in the group for a month, he says we will replace what he has done with his tanks and his balls with the will of the nation. That's right, with the tank, a government was taken down with the ball, there's been some impositions. But your number, when you came to power with the backbone of those 1 million people, last semester you had more MPs, you never claimed the issue. Now the Nationalist Movement Party is putting its heart into it, saying, "Come, imam-wits, before you twist like that... as the Minister said, this is not a reform, it's a correction. It's true, the foundation of today's tension is imam-happiness. Let's be frank. Come on, we'll clear the way for the imam-haters. Let your group vice presidents come in, put their hearts in here, say we're celebrating the nationalist movement party, and let's clear the way for this matter. You're doing politics here, too. Yeah, some of you lawmakers are tired of being MPs. What are you going to do? Aren't you still ashamed of developing a policy with the desire to win votes by creating an emotional atmosphere over the painful struggle of those 1 million people?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0216par0320	It doesn't suit me, it doesn't suit me!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0215par0321	Now, look, I'm telling you from the bottom of my heart. In some cases, you also abused several of the archipelagos you had released on September 12th, in the September 12th referendum, where you had to discuss the countries that were suffering in prisons.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0217par0322	You're the abuser!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0215par0323	Professor Zühal Topcu, who you have brought into our political lives as an e-memory of low will, and you've evaluated it and you've brought him up to be scientifically controversial, and you've taken advantage of his books, and with a very good will, Mehmet Erdem Bey, who created the issue here, used a very good expression: we're going to discuss a matter of scientific debate for the better education of our children in order for our teachers to have a better education. I read in the paper today, and I read in the paper, "If they shoot, we'll pass this thing." Who puts a bullet in you and exploits you? Have you done your duty to you Imam-Jews? My friend Ibrahim Solmaz, my friend! We'll race you all.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0218par0325	Who's your friend?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0215par0326	Get over there! Go!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0218par0327	Who?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0219par0328	Please, Congressman...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0215par0329	You know, for this country of ours...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0220par0330	If you have something to say, you come out and talk!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0221par0331	Raise your finger if you have a heart! Raise your finger if you have the heart!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0215par0332	Wait a minute, guys... For this country, for democracy, when we put our hearts into it, you'll be terrified. Do you know where you put the National Movement Party on the stand? You've put it in the opening program you've been under. And ye tarried in Habur, and tarried in Istanbul.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0222par0335	We don't get overwhelmed by anything.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0223par0336	Keep it up, keep it up!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0215par0337	Now, to divide this nation... do you believe what you're saying? He's going to learn about Flaming Flames. He's going to learn about Sunni Circumcision! Like this? Of course. In the days when your feet trembled, we kept it pure against the February 28th edition.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0224par0339	Where in God's name were you holding it?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0215par0340	Yeah, yeah...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0225par0341	You left your party, your party!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0215par0342	Get out of here!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0225par0343	You runaways!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0215par0344	Your mind is...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0226par0346	Mr. Adan, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0227par0347	They're easy, easy!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0228par0348	You runaways!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0229par0349	You're the fugitive!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0227par0350	You're easy, easy!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0230par0351	Then you were at the DYP.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0231par0352	You, you...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0230par0353	What? Then you were at the DYP.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0232par0354	You're not a man to talk to!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0231par0355	You, you...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0233par0356	Mr. Adan... Mr. Adan...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0234par0357	Then you were in DYP, and you weren't in the MHP! What?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0235par0359	Don't make a hand-to-hand move against the MHP!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0236par0360	Mr. Adan, please step down. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0237par0362	You were at the DYP, at the DYP!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0238par0363	Don't move your hands!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit03spe0236par0365	Mr. Adan, please... Congressmans, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0236par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the discussion of Proposition 199. The commission and the government are in place. Now, I will submit to your votes the motion of İstanbul MP Celal Adan and his friends on Article 3. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Mr. Vural, Mr. Şandir, you have motions for a new substance violation. I'm opening up a legal debate on this.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0239par0008	No, there's no need for procedure, sir, you can't open a discussion of procedure, you can't replace it with a clear argument, with a majority will. The supplement was given directly in accordance with the Civil Code provisions. You're going to read the procedure, the supplemental clause, and if there's a commission's will, you're going to look for it. Other than that, it is not possible for you to commit a violation of the Civil Code. That's not true! That's not true!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0240par0009	Bayram, sit down, don't give me advice! Bayram Bey, don't give me any advice!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0236par0010	Mr. Aslanoglu, please...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0240par0011	He's in your charge! Do your duty!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0236par0012	Mr. Aslanoglu, why don't you run this place?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0240par0013	Mr. President, he's not doing his duty, he's giving advice. You do your job!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0236par0015	So you're going to stop the friends here from talking?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0240par0016	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0236par0017	Here, take over here! Please!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0241par0018	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0240par0019	That's no way to argue, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0236par0020	Is that a style, Mr. Aslanoglu?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0242par0021	Mr. President, according to 87/4, please perform the necessary procedure, other than that, you have no other authority. Please run the House in accordance with the law.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0236par0022	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0242par0023	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0236par0024	Well, I'd like to explain my opinion on that first. Well...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0242par0025	Sir? I can't hear you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0236par0026	That's a very easy thing to say.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0243par0027	You can't hear it over the noise, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0244par0028	I don't understand.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0236par0029	No, I mean, I told him.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0244par0030	Can't hear it over the noise.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0245par0031	It's not understood. I'm telling you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0236par0032	No, why not, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0245par0033	Are you talking to yourself or to the General Assembly?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0236par0034	I'm not talking to myself. The General Assembly is all ears, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0245par0035	I didn't hear it. I said, "I didn't hear it." Is there something wrong with repeating it?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0246par0036	We do.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0236par0037	Just a second, Mr. Lawmakers. Please... It's a new substance violation, but you're bringing in a completely relevant new clause of the law. I'm going to open up a legal debate.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0039	No, sir. Look, I'm reading to you the Article of the Civil Charter: The bill or proposal that is being discussed as a new clause on proposals, which are not in the commission text, but in order to replace a clause that is very closely related to the bill or the proposal, and which the commission most commonly participates in. It is as clear as that.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0248par0040	So this has nothing to do with procedure.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0041	I mean, what are you going to argue about?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0249par0042	In the Turkish Grand National Assembly, however practices have been done so far, in the past...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0043	Sir, that's the way it's always been in the past, it's relevant. Look, I'm just saying, number one, is there a clause in this matter that has nothing to do with this bill, this proposal? It's about the bill and the proposal, that's what it's about. I'm not bringing up anything else. The direct line is 4+4+4...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0249par0045	But are the supply claims only related to the bill?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0046	Sir?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0249par0047	Is this about the bill, just the supply violations?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0048	Yeah, about that.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0250par0049	It's relevant.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0050	It's relevant. Because they did it wrong.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0250par0051	Creating new university names.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0052	Because because they're wrong, we're offering the right thing.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0053	Then listen to my explanation, please, because it's not like we're never gonna get it. We'll take two of your motions on each item. Members of the law, there have been several motions regarding the new clause in our presidency, but with the joint assessment of the Civil Code provisions...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0055	What provisions?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0056	I'll explain, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0057	What provisions do you consider together?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0058	I'll read it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0059	Tell me the verdict.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0060	But it comes after that. Mr. Vural, why are you in such a hurry? Please... we listen patiently when we promise you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0061	Sir, we won't let you take away our rights like we did on the Commission. According to him!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0062	Mr. Vural, applications from yesterday to the General Assembly are obvious.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0063	The application in the General Assembly...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0064	Yesterday I had three procedural arguments...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0065	No, sir. This isn't about procedure. You can't limit my authority.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0066	I've made a promise to all the members of the group who want a word.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0067	No, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0068	No words were limited.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0069	Mr. President, I don't know where you get your orders from.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0070	You use that word, but you're doing the same thing right now.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0071	I don't know where you're getting your orders, but you've sworn an oath on the state of law, your name and your honor.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0072	Mr. Vural, if you're taking orders from somewhere, where you're taking orders from, every congressman is taking orders from there.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0073	I say, act according to the Civil Code and the Constitution, which you have sworn upon your name and honor.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0074	It's not the right thing to do with the lawmakers, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0075	It suits your Commissioner, it suits you very well.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0076	It doesn't suit me.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0077	It's a cathartic fit.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0078	I personally don't look like myself, nor do I look like any congressman.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0080	This is where you vote for a commission that's brought in by violence, and it suits you very well.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0081	Please...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0082	On the contrary, it suits you very well.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0083	I don't look like myself, and I don't look like any congressman.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0084	I respect that you don't look good on yourself, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0085	I can't fit it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0086	It's really important. I'm afraid the Commission considers yourself unbecoming. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0087	I mean, I don't know. It's the Commission's own problem, it's in the past.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0088	Thank you. And those who raise their fingers...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0089	However, from the joint assessment of the Civil Code provisions, under the provisions of Article 91 of the Civil Code, it is possible that only two new amendment proposals can be submitted in each section on the fundamental laws discussed in sectionals. As a result, both proposals for amendments to the new interim clause have been imposed on the text, which is similarly considered the basic law.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0091	Mr. President, it's on the item. Look, it's saying on the material. There's no way you can interpret what's on the substance as a new substance requirement. For God's sake, we went to the same college, same...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0092	Mr. Vural, please, let me read the whole thing, so listen up.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0093	I'm just reading.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0094	So, let's have a discussion, let's have it, let's have it, let's have it, let's have it, let's have it, let's have it, let's have it, let's have it, let's have it, let's have
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0095	Sir, you've started a formal discussion. What's it gonna be?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0096	Well, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0097	You're going to vote with the will of the majority. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0251par0099	So how do we do it?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0100	You will, sir. Look, Mr. President, it says that there are two motions on the matter, including its proposals, that I'm not going to say anything about this, but I'm proposing an additive. That's a lot of things... because it's about every single substance, and it's not measured according to its weight when it comes to its order. Why do you give so much? It is not measured. Show that my additive has nothing to do with it, that there is no correlation to it, so I'll say: yes, sir, it's a kelalaka. It's relevant.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0252par0101	Mr. President, a substance violation can only be met with a motion. Therefore, a demand for substance enforcement is a motion. Thus, the two motions in Article 91 of the Civil Code clearly cover this.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0247par0102	No, sir, there's a motion on the material, not two proposals in total.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0252par0103	So, on the department... because how are you going to ask for substance abuse without making a motion?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0253par0104	Mr. Canikli, let me read the whole thing, then. According to Article 87 (87) of the Civil Code amendment motions, the law may provide a rejection of a clause in the bill or proposal, the extradition of all or a clause to the commission, the amendment of a clause, or the application of an additive or temporary clause, the MPs, the main commission or the government may submit amendments. Seven motions can be submitted by lawmakers in this office for each clause, including violations of the Constitution. Therefore, according to a clear conclusion from this clause, the limit of the motion to add new substances to the text is seven. The 91st Article of the Civil Charter of the Law stipulates that a amendment motion can be submitted by lawmakers, the main commission and the government, but does not have a ruling as to the purpose of the amendment proposals. The fifth joke of the article states that other provisions are confidential. Therefore, the motions must be submitted here about a rejection of a clause, the return of all or a clause to the commission, the exchange of a clause, the addition or temporary clause to the text. In this case, the limitation on the number of new substances, as in Article 87, should also apply here.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0254par0107	Seven, then you open seven, thank you. So there are seven motions.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0253par0108	Well, you didn't listen from the beginning.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0254par0109	You confessed.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0253par0110	Listen to the rest, please. But the last session before you, we're here to discuss...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0254par0111	Mr. President, you can't pick up apples and pears and make oranges!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0253par0112	Since the 91st article can offer two motions on each article, it is necessary to accept that only two new clauses can be submitted on each section. In this case, however, each group of political parties has the right to submit a motion, so the number of new clause proposals can also be used in proportion to the number of groups and if it is used by parties without the first two proposal groups and independents. On the other hand, the Constitutional Court issued 2001/129 fundamentals on the basic laws and 2002/24 verdicts. "The real will of the Parliament is the result of talks on the purpose of the public benefit, which is the main thing in the activities of life. It is a fact that the motions given as much as the talks had contributed greatly to the formation of that will.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0254par0114	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0253par0115	However, there is an unlimited number of lawmakers...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0254par0116	It's not unlimited!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0253par0117	..it is clear that the recognition of the opportunity to give advice will affect legislation in a negative way, preventing the required laws from being passed." It is said that adding additional or temporary material to the text must be considered within this scope. For these reasons, there is no possibility of processing more than two new substance motions on one section, so...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0254par0118	More than two... yes, take it, no more than two. More than two on one substance... you can't take more than two on one substance, over.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0253par0119	Okay. You didn't listen, you didn't let him, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0254par0120	Okay, read it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0253par0121	You didn't let me... Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0254par0123	Read it. You said you couldn't.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0255par0124	Mr. President, when new matter is committed here, it is not subject to the basic law.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0253par0125	So, I'm going to read the motion for two new clauses on this section...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0254par0126	Yes, therefore, we have... Mr. President, there are no two motions in each article.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0256par0127	There's a motion.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0254par0128	Therefore, all of our additional clause proposals will be brought up. Besides, Mr. President, when an additional clause proposal is adopted by the Commission, it is not considered as a fundamental law, it is considered a normal matter. Therefore, there will be no constraints on the motion here. That's a false assessment.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0257par0129	The group motion will be withdrawn, Mr. President. The group motion will be cancelled.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0254par0130	No, it's off, okay? I'm giving it to you about something else.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0258par0131	Mr. Vural, this last thing seems to be a misunderstanding. It's already the last time...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0254par0132	No, we got it right, sir. You're right.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0258par0133	Do you want me to repeat what I read? That's why I've already finished with this phrase, "I'm going to read the motion for two new clauses on this part." So you have the right to make two new motions on each department.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0254par0135	No, sir. Who said that? Of course! You're going to seek the will of supplemental property, and then I have the right to speak, and I have the right to a motion on it. You can't deny me that right, Mr. President. Call for him and we'll thank him. What's the point of having a public discussion about this in the General Assembly?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit04spe0258par0136	Mr. Group, have the vice presidents come in and we'll talk. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0258par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the discussion of Proposition 199. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on Article 4 according to the order of arrival...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0259par0005	Did you read the supplement, sir?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0258par0006	Congressmans, I am correcting. There's a motion for a new substance violation. The bill and proposal, which are being discussed as they know it, is the Fourth Article of the Article of the Interior Charter, which does not exist in the commission text of the law, but demands that a clause be changed, which is very closely related to the bill and the proposal, and will be held as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has attended most of the time. That's why I'm going to read the motion and ask the commission. If the commission joins the motion, mostly with 14 members, I will open my eyes to the motion as a new clause. I'm going to dismiss the motion if the commission doesn't participate in it most of the time. Now, I'm going to read the motion:
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0260par0010	Ask me once, Mr. President, if you have a majority of commissions.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0261par0011	They've already made your rosary.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0258par0012	Mr. Young, please excuse us, we'll ask after we've read it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal No. 199, dated 5/1/1961, was the 10th of the First Education and Education Act 222. We would like to add the following item to change its substance. "The village should also be organized to migrate with the people of the village and carry on their daily work and duties at once, when a village is moved to places such as bows, pasture, and vineyards, as a means of business and production. Ali Öz Mehmet Günal Alim Ikm Yusuf Halaçoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Ahmet Duran Bulut Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general? We can't participate because we don't have a majority, Mr. President. Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. I'm reading another motion on the new substance requirement: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 199 Orders of the Law Proposal, dated 5/1/1961 and the 11th Amendment for Elementary and Education No. 222 We would like to add the following item to change its substance. 11 - Even though they are in a mandatory first-year period of education, they can be opened by real and private people, municipalities, private administrations, and the State, to provide them with information and skills that will benefit them in business and production, even though they have completed primary education school and have already completed mandatory schooling and are unable to attend upper-level education institutions." Ali Yim Ik Mehmet Günal Ali Öz Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general? We can't participate because we don't have a majority, Mr. President. Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 199 Orders of the Law Proposal, dated 5/1/1961, and 12 of the First Education and Education Law No. 222. We would like to add the following item to change its substance. 1 2 - Although they were in the age of mandatory early learning, mentally...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0262par0040	Mr. President, what you're doing is against the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0258par0041	Let's finish this, and then I'll promise.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0262par0042	It's not a procedure, Mr. President, you can't push it like that, it can't happen. Mr. President, let's discuss this procedure, please. I want a word against you, Mr. President. ..the body, the spiritually and socially disabled children are allowed to receive special education and education. Özcan Yeniçeri Muharrem Varlı Zuhal Topcu Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0263par0048	Yes, Mr. Commission, do you agree, just for the most part? We don't have a single majority, Mr. President, we don't. I'm removing the motion from the process.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0264par0051	Just call the majority, maybe we'll get there, maybe we'll get there.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0263par0052	I'm having the other motion read: ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey It is dated 5/1/1961 to the Law Proposal of 199, and the 13th Amendment to Elementary and Education No. 222. We would like to add the following item to change the clause...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0265par0055	Mr. President, you can't continue this conversation. You're clearly doing an infraction to the Civil Code right now.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0263par0056	Mr. Canikli, I promise you, sit down for a second.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0265par0057	By no means! You are in violation of the law, and you are in use of a right that is not given by the Civil Law, and you are incurring the right that is not. Is that a procedure, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0263par0058	I'll give you my word after this motion. ▪Madde 13- Children who have reached a mandatory schooling age in pre-school institutions are trained for a year. In optional complementary classes and courses, citizens who have gone out of the first period of learning and have not been able to go to higher education institutions are taught to increase general information and to ensure that they are brought up as a better business and production element. These institutions can be opened by real and legal individuals, municipalities, private administrations and the State. Seyfettin Yilmaz Zühal Topcu Alim Light D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Yes, is the Commission mostly in favor of the motion? We don't have a single majority, Mr. President, we don't. I'm removing the motion from the process.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0266par0069	The only majority lives here.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0263par0070	There are three motions on Article 4 that I'll have read according to the order of arrival and process according to their discrepancies...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0267par0071	Mr. President, before that, I'd like to ask that we discuss this procedure and this procedure that you've just done.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0268par0072	Your position, your position...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0267par0073	I want a word against it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0268par0074	From your position... to the transcripts, Mr. Nurettin.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0269par0075	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0270par0077	Sir, it's against...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0271par0078	In your favor, sir...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0272par0081	Mr. President, what you've just done is very clearly and strictly against the Civil Code, and it's literally inadmissible. The reason, Mr. President, is that according to Article 87 of the Civil Code, there is also a clause within the scope of the motion. I mean, every...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0273par0082	Where does it say that?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0272par0083	I'm reading, look. Open the first joke of article 87, and we'll read it together.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0274par0084	Read, understand!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0273par0085	There is no such sentence in 87. There's a gap.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0272par0086	Read it, sir. Open it. Read it. In the draft or proposal of the law, the rejection of a clause is within the scope of seven proposals, including the return of all or a clause to the commission, the exchange of a clause, the addition or temporary clause.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0275par0088	It's not him, it's not going in there. Read the jokes below, the jokes below.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0272par0089	Because of a law that we are currently negotiating as the basic law, there are six proposals here due to the proposal. There, the two motions were committed to MPs who were not part of the political party group; they were separated, leaving four motions for the basic law. What this means is that each group has a motion, including an additional clause violation, because you can only make the demand for supplemental property with a motion. So right now, this rule is clearly violated.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0275par0090	You didn't learn, read the below jokes.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0272par0091	A political party can use the motion as a violation of new materials, including an additional clause prescribed for each clause for its basic laws known to it, and we can't interfere with that, but there may be one. You've read more than one now, Mr. President. This is clearly against the 87th and 91st articles of the Civil Code. Therefore, this needs to be corrected immediately.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0276par0092	They're separate substances, separate substances!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0275par0093	Read the sub joke, the sub joke!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0272par0094	Otherwise, Mr. President, there is an unlimited number of supplements for each substance...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0276par0095	No, it's not possible, it's not unlimited. That's not true. It's limited.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0272par0096	...there is no such thing in the Civil Code, nor in the Constitution. And the Constitutional Court's decision that you have just read, which is very clear, confirms and confirms our statement.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0277par0097	There's no unlimited motion in every substance!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0276par0098	That's the Constitutional Court's restraining order when it's an unlimited motion.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0272par0099	What you just did is against the law, the law, the Civil Code, everything, Mr. President. Therefore, you need to change your attitude and be established according to Article 87, which I have just read, in accordance with Article One and Article 91. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0278par0102	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0279par0103	Don't read one of 87, read the last of your jokes. Of course it's not on your account!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0272par0104	I read it all.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0278par0105	Mr. Vural on the side, please.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0280par0107	Mr. President, first of all, I must say that the Court has done the procedure and it's over.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0272par0108	No, that's not illegal, that's unacceptable, that's not a thing.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0280par0109	So you brought up the motions on the 4th article. So it's actually done here, and there's no way to start a discussion on this, because the application is over.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0272par0110	There is no such thing; there is no law, there is no law, there is no law, there is no law, there is no law, there is no law, there is no law, there is no law, there is no law, there is no law, there is no law, there is no law, there is no law, there is no law, there is no law, there is no law,
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0280par0111	Thus, the practice was accepted directly by the majority. You applied five articles, they did not object until then, but when it comes to the 4th article, they object. What practice do they object to?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0272par0112	There's no such thing! Oh, yes, it's on the record, our objection. We had our objection when we read it, and it's on the record.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0280par0113	What are we doing, Mr. Nurettin? This law is empty. Since it's empty, we're recommending changes in other laws based on changes created to fill that law. If you'll stand up and tell me... because the 87th amendment to the proposal states that the law should be replaced by a clause that does not exist in the commission text, but is very closely related to the bill or the proposal.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0281par0114	He's not part of 87, Mr. Nurettin, he's not part of our matter.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0280par0115	I say it has a very close interest. What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0282par0116	He's setting the limits of the additive, setting the content, it's got nothing to do with that.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0280par0117	Which means it's relevant, which means that the law you brought in is empty, that he didn't take the other laws. We do our duty as opposition, and we strive to make this law better.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0282par0118	You're blocking it right now, and you're doing everything you can to stop it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0280par0119	Mr. President's application is correct because we are not discussing the clause or the motion. He'll ask the Commission first. If there's a commission, he'll process it. I mean, why are you so uncomfortable with the reading of a will to add a substance? No, the majority has been removed from the process. In that respect, let us show you in public how incomplete this bill of yours is, and let the public see how incomplete it is, and why didn't you consider the changes of this Nationalist Movement Party regarding these other laws? Let him come and inspect you, and that's our goal. In that sense, it's not an obstruction, but it's to fill the gaps in the law. I wish Mr. Nurettin... what does this have to do with the motions we're making here? It has nothing to do with the law. If you had said it, I would have respected you, and I would have said we didn't have an affair.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0282par0121	It determines its limit, Mr. Oktay, it determines the content of the border.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0280par0122	So you admit that he's connected, so you admit he's needed. So what needs to be done is that the majority is here, and when the majority is here, the law is better. Don't we all want to serve our country? You want it, we want to contribute. In that respect, the president's recommendation is to seek the Commission's will. Stop him from searching for the commission's will... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...it's not right, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0283par0126	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0280par0127	This is also a subject where the discussion of the procedure can be implemented, and it is currently not subject to defecation. There's no need to make a decision about this procedure, since it's not.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0283par0129	Ahmet Aydın, Adıyaman MP. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0284par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear President, the Council of Presidents, of course, there were three debates about this matter yesterday, and they were rejected along with their grounds in the three-way debate. So, Mr. President, first of all, let me say that we are in violation of both the rulings and the parliamentary regulations of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0285par0133	What a team, Ahmet! The man from yesterday, he doesn't know the score!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0284par0134	The opposition here is trying to make it look like it's been done, but right now we're discussing the procedure, and there's not a process that's been developed yet. The procedure will be developed as a result of this discussion of procedure. My dear President, my dear friends, look, before the session, Mr. President actually sums the matter up in a very nice way, and in light of those statements, he has made it very clear that the number of motions is not more than four in fundamental laws, nor more than seven in normal law negotiations.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0286par0136	The border is three?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0284par0137	While that's the case, Mr. President, after the hearing, something new is being created as if it's being invented. See, the 87th article of our Civil Charter clearly considers the new clause in addition to the interim substance. The top limit is seven. It says, "It can't exceed seven." It says, "Even if it's an additive, even if it's a temporary supply of materials, even if it's a supplement to the text, the sum of all proposals can't exceed seven in normal laws." We're opening up the 91st article, and the 91st article says that if it's discussed as a basic law -- all of it, now that our group number is four -- we can't get through four. If such a course is accepted, it would lead from the lowest of the seven to the fourteenth, and we would have provided an unlimited opportunity, which would bring serious difficulties in terms of how things work and at the point of violation of the Civil Law. Mr. President, look, you've actually read the Constitutional Court's decision, and you've also read the grounds for Article 91. In view of all of this, it will be clear that what is being done now is completely contrary to the Civil Code. If you'd like, I'll read the Constitutional Court's verdict one more time. On the other hand, in light of Articles 87 and 91, and the Constitutional Court has given us the basic laws...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0287par0141	When did he give it to you? On what date?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0284par0142	...2001/129 original and 2002/24 No. In the decision of the lulu...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0287par0143	They said, "These are the headscarfs. We have raised 411 hands, and the head covering is contrary to the constitution." So you're supporting him, and you think it's right that the Constitutional Court cancels this arrangement about the veil. Well done!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0284par0144	...... is the creation of parliament's true will as a result of talks on the purpose of public benefit. It is a fact that the motions made in the creation of this will are as much a contribution as the talks. However, it is clear that the recognition of an unlimited number of proposals to lawmakers will affect legislation in a negative way, preventing the adoption of the required laws. It is mandatory to include additional or temporary clauses in the text after it has been said. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] For these reasons, more than two new substance motions cannot be processed on one section. So, Mr. President, you have to consider the procedure discussion. I'd like to review your procedure with respect to the lack of law enforcement.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0288par0148	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0289par0150	Dear friends, I've been paying attention ever since, there are seven proposals in one article. It says that friends and every group have a right.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0290par0151	That's the basic law.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0289par0152	Suppose two more groups of EC PARTY were born in Parliament, separated from you, in the past period, during the age of apprentice. The CHP also left two groups, 4. There's already four groups, eight groups. What are we gonna do, split up seven motions?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0290par0153	Hypothetically...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0289par0154	So I'm talking hypothetically. We're eight groups. There are seven motion restrictions on one item. What are we gonna do?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0291par0155	He's got a right to be. We draw lots.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0289par0156	Now, these basic laws... look, guys, we have a head injury. You can't find the truth in a malfunctioning procedure. That's not the basic law. Now, he says there's a fundamental law on things that systematically change a rule of law. The government does. Did the government ask for it? No. Did he ask for a commission? No. Has there been a unanimous vote on the advisory board? No. You're bringing it in as a group suggestion. And in this, you fill up what you want by saying, "Systemmatic," "the basic law," like the bag is the law. Let the university of Shuppiluma be established, or Selahattin Ayyubi or, in the name of the Prime Minister, in the name of the President. Now, what does that have to do with this basic law? Now, as we run the House on these issues, we're experiencing a process that needs a little bit of law, universal principles of democracy, pluralism, participation, partnership. There'll be three more basic laws coming from behind. So you bring it in with a motion, raise your hand, it becomes the basic law. It's not the basic law, guys. Put the laws of twenty articles into basic law status, as soon as you want them to be, and this is not the basic law. This law is made up of three or five articles, which have been passed. You're dissolving the head cover in the YOK? Law of education, let's get it over with! Bring in the 17th article of the law, and solve the head covering. Here you are, you are, you are, you are, you are, you are, you are, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, That's what I'm saying. Look, the president's presentation isn't wrong. As soon as the commission comes in, this motion passes, this motion is discussed. Restriction is not right. We're doing it all wrong. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What we're doing isn't democracy, it's not Parliamentary law here, folks, I wanted to express it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0292par0161	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0293par0162	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0292par0163	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0293par0164	Mr. President, Mr. Nurettin Canikli...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0292par0165	At your place, please.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0293par0168	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Canikli, you're trying to block this law on these discussions about our group." he said. As a statement of will, we, the National Movement Party, are not trying to block this law, but as Mr. Oktay Vural said, this law is incomplete. This law does not regulate matters related to other laws. The motions we submitted for additional substance violations were at least an effort to complete this gap, aimed at getting it into the transcripts. I'm sorry to have come across such an accusation while I was waiting to thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0292par0170	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0293par0171	Excuse me. Second thing...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0294par0173	Anyway, the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0293par0174	Mr. Aydın says it's the Civil Charter. It's not like you said in the Civil Code, there's a gap. See, the 91st article says "two motions," but after saying "two motions," it opens a new title called "seeming as a new substance." So there's a gap here. As Mr. Oktay Vural proposed, let's not make a mistake after this, let's not make a mistake, after which the group will come together as vice presidents, we'll make a statement on how to act on it, we'll find out, and we'll be able to solve these problems from now on. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0295par0177	Thank you, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0293par0178	And one more thing: after these discussions, we withdrew these motions. These motions we've taken are lost on your part, by this law. We've drawn up our motions.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0295par0179	I've already made my point before a session. [[Continue]] There are three motions on Article 4 that I am reading: The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Justice and Development Party Deputy Chiefs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Heromarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of the First Education and Development Act for Change in Some Laws; Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's proposal to make changes in the Law of Higher Education Institutions; Justice and Development Party MP Mustafa Elitaş; Vice President of Turkey's Assembly and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council; Matter has been changed as follows. Article 14 of the Law No. 4 - 222 has been changed as follows. Article 14 - (1) In primary schools and secondary schools, according to the size of them, and the presence of their kindergartens and private education classes, there are following officials at primary institutes: A) the principal and the vice principal, B) Teachers; classes, majors, pre-school education, special education teachers and traveling teachers and master teachers, C) Guidance specialists, D) Health, technical, general administration and other staff required by staff and training activities, including service classes. (2) The qualifications of the staff at primary education institutions are organised by regulation of the procedures and foundations of the appointment by duty and authority. Zühal Topcu Ali Şim Imlight Ali Halaman Özcan Yeniçeri Nevzat Korkmaz Mehmet Günal D. Ali Torlak Congressmans, now that the motions I'm going to read are in the same context, I'm going to process the motions together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions:
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0296par0203	Give some to Bayram to read. He's giving orders to the President, so he can read some.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0295par0204	Mr. Young, you can come here if you want.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0296par0205	He's giving you instructions.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0295par0206	I assume all this effort is because you can't sit here. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) No, that's it, please...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0296par0207	Gee, I don't want to be a poor man like you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0295par0208	Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahnamaraş MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister's Law and Development Party's Deputy Chairs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Berçkaplı; Justice and Development Party Chair Ahmet Aydın and Şeymaraş MP Ahmet Aydın and Şemir İnal; Chairman's Council of Justice and Education Act on Some Laws and Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's Office on the Law; Minister's Office of Justice and the Council of Justice and Development; Minister's Office of Justice and the Council of Justice and Development; Minister's Office of the Constitution and the Council of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers for Higher Education; Minister of Justice and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers; Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers of the Councils; Ministers and the Council of Ministers of State of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Ministers of State of State of State of Ministers; Minister of State of Ministers and the Council of State of State of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of State of State of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State ofMinisters; We propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Hasan Ören Emine Ültur Tarhan Engin Özkoç M. Volcano Canalioğlu Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 199 Common Orders Elementary and Education Act and the 4th Amendment to some Laws. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. We propose and propose that Article 4 of the 199 bill be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan İstiye Birtane Nursel Aydoğan Ertuğrul Furstok Altan Tan Fair Wolf Does Mr. Commission agree with the motions of the same nature? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0297par0230	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0295par0231	Engin Özkoç, MP of Sakarya who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0298par0233	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, Mr. President, this is the first time I've spoken for five minutes since I arrived. Our MPs have done everything they can to prevent me from having this conversation. I've been interrupted for five minutes. Now, my dear friends, I just don't know if Mr. Mehmet Sahin is here. I see, the esteemed minister of February 28th is not in the House at the moment.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0299par0235	I'm here.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0298par0236	Here? I didn't see it. Yeah. Look, I... the legal provisions will be carried out to increase mandatory education to eight years, and it will be gradually implemented. Minister of National Education Prof. Dr. I think there may be February 28th between June 28, 1996, and June 28, 1997, which Mehmet Sütın had submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. But of course, I'm a new deputy, since you're the ministry, you may be considering this date outside of this. Now, you're going to get up, you're going to be minister of February 28th, you're going to be deputy president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and that's what they did to us on February 28th, and we're going to avenge it. You're going to say, "You're going to bring it to this nation, you're going to put it in front of this nation, and this nation is going to believe you?" I mean, come on, guys, don't do this, don't do this, at least to this people. (CHP clapping in rows) So there's really nothing to be held captive from. There's got to be a real intimacy somewhere. So on February 28th, they were on the agenda of Turkey, and Mr. Prime Minister will say, "They've been through a ditch in February 28th." The Minister of February 28th will be AKP MP, and will be the Vice President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I mean, is there such a thing as intimacy? Don't we ever blush while we're looking? I don't get it, guys. My dear friends, no, I wonder what you're saying.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0300par0240	You've got history mixed up, mixed up...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0298par0241	So Mr. Light is talking now, and so am I. He said: "Ya, dear friends, this curriculum will not be broken for twelve years. " He said it in front of the press, said it in front of the minister, and I do not agree with the Minister," he said. And then the Minister got up, and he said, "No, this curriculum will be broken if there are applications and separate schools open." Didn't he or she say? He did. No, what happened?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0300par0243	You got him mixed up...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0298par0244	Yeah, give me one, give me one, something concrete. Then they said, "Sixty months are six years old." If I had kids now, I'd be counting and I wouldn't have kids. So how old do you call the boy who filled his first month, Mr. Light? You mean a year old? You don't say one month. Don't you say two months? When you've completed twelve months, don't you say this is one year old? Who are those people you're taking to the back rows and trying to convince? Let's say you did. A 60-month-old kid's gonna be six because you told him to? Oh, you might think that we're in power, and if we say so, the kids will be six years old. Well done, I'll tell you what else! (CHP clapping in rows) If you say so!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0301par0246	Whatever we say goes!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0298par0247	If you say so, it really is. Now, I'm saying that all of this isn't based on intimacy. That's not true, it's to dazzle the Turkish people. If you had been sincere, you would not have been so enthusiastic about the motions made by the MHP just now. Intimacy doesn't exist from any side of it. I hope the Turkish people understand your intentions, and the Republican People's Party will continue to exhibit the proper, ununderstandinged position in this matter. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0302par0251	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0303par0252	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0302par0253	Mr. Safir, you have a request for a statement regarding the testimony of Mr. Ozkoc. Two minutes, but at what dates have you been in the ministry, Mr. Secret, explain so our lawmakers can listen.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0303par0254	I'll tell you, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0302par0255	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0303par0258	Congressmans, if you'll listen to me very calmly, it would be more comfortable if we talked about what dates I was in the ministry, and then my friend, who we're successors with, is among you. Look, the highway government was first established, and I wasn't the Minister there. It's the government, May...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0304par0260	You were head of staff.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0303par0261	No, I wasn't president, I was MP, I was elected in 1995. I was a member of the Right Way Party, but in the first government, the Highway Government -- our friends back then -- I wasn't the Minister.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0305par0262	Why did you change so many parties, we didn't understand that?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0303par0263	I didn't change a lot of parties. Look, Mr. Tanal, I went into politics at the Right Way Party, and then I changed parties, and he went into AK PARTY. The Right Way Party didn't win the election and was at the point of disintegration. Now, sir, look, the Highway Government resigned in May. At the beginning of June...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0306par0265	Join the BDP, the BDP...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0307par0266	Mr. Agha, please...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0303par0267	Now, my dear friends, the 54th government I was in was founded at the beginning of June. It was founded at the beginning of June. Now, the conglomerate, which recommended 4+4, met in May, and I wasn't the Minister at the time. When I became Minister, in May, in June, the new government was formed, the Welfare Government.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0308par0268	That's not what we're saying, Mr. Solid.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0303par0269	We were government for a year. February 28, 1997, a year later, a decision was made on the National Security Board. The Minister of National Education is not a member of the National Security Council, and my signature is not in question. Then the arguments started...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0309par0270	Didn't you join as a healer?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0303par0271	Hold on a second, fellas. The arguments have begun. We, the government, have resigned because we did not accept the decision of uninterrupted training on the National Security Council. [Voices, applause, applause] Wait a second... we resigned, then we withdrew in June 1997.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0310par0273	Okay, when, when? Six months later.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0303par0274	In August 1997, 1997, the decision for uninterrupted education was issued. I left again in June when the decision was made.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0311par0275	February comes before June, Mr. Secret.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0303par0276	So the Welfare Government ended in June, and the newly formed government agreed to uninterrupted education in August. I don't understand...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0312par0277	I don't understand either. Can you say that again?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0303par0278	Look, I wasn't a minister, I was a minister in June, we were a minister for a year, but national security decisions were made on February 28th, I'm not a member of the National Security Council... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I've informed the Council of Ministers that it hasn't been implemented. That's why we pulled out and it came out in August, and it had nothing to do with me.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0313par0281	Mr. Secret, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0314par0282	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0315par0283	Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0313par0284	Just a second, Mr. Fine. Mr. Kaplan, if you'll excuse me for a moment, the Minister will step down.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0316par0286	Were you or were you not the Minister on February 28th?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0317par0287	Yes, I was the Minister...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0316par0288	Okay.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0318par0289	Mr. Secret...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0317par0290	But on February 28th, I wasn't the Minister, but under the national security board decisions, I wasn't signed. I'm not a board member, I'm not a member of the National Security Board, it's that simple.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0318par0292	Mr. Secret, would you please sit down? Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0295	Mr. Secret, May, June, August, a big bear, I'm history... his information is not true, history, history...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0318par0296	Is that possible, Mr. Slim? Now, Mr. Secret has announced what dates he served as a minister.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0297	Sir, he's giving false information to the public, to Parliament.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0320par0298	Mr. President, he's giving false information.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0318par0299	You don't have to answer that.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0300	No way, sir! That's not true.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0318par0301	He's responding to bullying, Mr. Tünce, please...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0302	No, sir, he's picking on me! Mr. Nur Serter says that his speech is wrong, that it is a lie, and I will tell them.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0318par0304	Mr. Tütün didn't say that Mr. Serker's speech was false and false...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0305	He did.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0321par0306	He did.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0318par0307	No, he told me what dates he was in the ministry.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0308	I'd like to explain, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0321par0309	Mr. President, he's twisting it. He's giving false information to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0318par0310	Well, let's ask for the transcripts, Mr. Tünce.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0311	Mr. President, I'd like to explain.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0318par0312	Well, please, I mean...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0322par0313	Mr. President, you didn't just give it to me.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0314	No, sir, no!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0318par0315	...in the wake of every statement, Mr. Group Vice President's request for such a statement?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0316	Mr. President has given misinformation to Parliament, and I want to correct it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0318par0317	Mr. Tüt, Mr. Secret, the minister himself...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0318	Mr. President, I would consider this an insult to the Republican People's Party spokesman, and I would like to respond as the group vice president.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0318par0319	Mr. Tütin, then let's do this, and don't take it as an insult, it's out of the question.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0320	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0318par0321	What governments we are...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0322	I'll tell you, sir...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0318par0323	One moment, sir, if you'll excuse me, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0324	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0323par0325	Ask Turhan Tayan.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0318par0326	What governments were formed at the time, starting and resigning governments, and I'm going to read here from the presidential bench, and I want them. I made them want it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0327	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0318par0328	Sir...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0329	Look, Mr. Nur Serter...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0324par0330	Mr. President, you have to promise the deputy leader of the group.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0318par0331	Mr. Young, why don't you... can't Mr. Slim express himself?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0332	Mr. President, you see, in the Parliamentary tradition, when a member of the group asks for a word on such a controversial matter, you know it, and I know it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0325par0333	Mr. President, you did not just give me your word.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0318par0334	Mr. Tütin, this group is not a presidential issue. There was bullying, he took the bet, which dates did he say he was a minister of? I don't...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0335	No, he didn't. He said the dates in May, June, and I'm going to explain the dates.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0318par0336	Well, okay, I'll explain from here which dates the governments will serve, and I've asked for their dates.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0337	Mr. President, if you'll give me two minutes, I'll explain.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0326par0338	Mr. President, we're just curious about the right information.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0339	I'll give you the right information.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0327par0340	And after that, Mr. Secret will ask for your word.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0341	Mr. President, you can't make a group of vice presidents beg like that! You have to promise! No way!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0327par0343	What do you mean? Why are you angry, Mr. Tünce?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0344	You have to! You have to! That's not the way to do it!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0327par0345	So, Mr. Slim, if you'd like to take the stand, that's a different...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0319par0346	I want out!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0327par0347	Please, but that's not true, Mr. Slim. I didn't promise you anything.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0328par0348	There is no such thing, Mr. President! The members of the group also have to abide by the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0327par0350	No, I didn't promise you anything, Mr. Tütin, I told you nothing else! Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0329par0351	You said, "Here you are."
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0327par0352	Oh, please, dear. If you want to talk, I mean.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0329par0353	I'll take that word here.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0327par0355	Mr. Slim, isn't that a violation of the Civil Code?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0329par0356	I'm Deputy Director of the Group, you have to promise me. You have no right.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0327par0357	Isn't this an invasion of the bench, Mr. Slim? Please...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0330par0358	Mr. President, the members of the group have to comply with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0331par0359	We don't have that kind of procedure.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0327par0360	Mr. Slim, what do you want to do here? Explain him.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0332par0362	Mr. President, he picked on our group.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit05spe0327par0363	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger, lawmakers.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0327par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the discussion of Proposition 199. The commission and the government are in place. Mr. Slim, come in. Two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0333par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, you are now appointed to the Ministry on June 29, 1996, when you left the Ministry on June 30, 1997; you served for a year. As you said, it was gathered between 13 and 17 May 1996. However, on February 28, you are the Minister, you are the Minister. Second, it is July 29, 1996, when the following decisions were published in the Journal of Declarations; you are again the Minister. So on February 28th, you are also the Minister when the decision is published in the Journal of Reports. Deputy Prime Minister Cirler made a statement on April 23, 1997, due to National Sovereignty and Children's Day. After a meeting with National Education Minister Secret and bureaucrats, everyone will study for eight years. Over eight years, there'll be an indictment, a prep class, and then it'll go on, he says. Then, Mr. Salih Kapusuz, Deputy President of the Welfare Party; Mr. Arinc, Mr. Gul MP; Mr. Prime Minister İstanbul Mayor. Do they have the signature of the late Erbakan? Is there or isn't there? Turhan Tayan then advocated eight years of education, and now he advocates eight years of education. Turhan Tayan didn't pull it off!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0334par0015	Where were you then?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0335par0016	You're February 28th!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0333par0017	Turan Tayan didn't change his mind; he defended it then and now he defended it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0335par0018	We call him February 28th!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0333par0019	You were the Minister when the decisions were published in the Journal of Appeals, and on February 28th, you were the Minister. Let's inform the public correctly, let's inform the High Assembly, let's inform our people correctly. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0336par0022	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0337par0023	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0338par0024	Mr. President, I'd like to say a sentence.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0336par0025	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0337par0026	Mr. President, I'm going to say this, sir: of course, I don't think it's appropriate to place the issue on February 28th, which is all about Mr. Secret, because the AKP is a party founded by those who left the Welfare Party at the request of February 28th. That's why it's here, it's all there.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0336par0028	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0339par0029	You started defending February 28th!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0337par0030	Since it's the product of February 28th...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0336par0031	Mr. Vural, thank you. That's no way to do it, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0337par0032	In this regard, I think they're being unfair.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0336par0033	Here you go, Mr. Solid.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0340par0034	You're the ones who came to power after February 28th!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0341par0035	Mr. President, I'd like to ask you...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0336par0036	No, please, Mr. Strict, what are you talking about? Please, will you... take a seat... take a seat? [[Give it, give it, give it!]] Just a second, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0342par0039	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0343par0040	The dates of Mr. Encel are correct, sir. It's just...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0336par0042	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0344par0043	Let Mr. President rule, let him!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0345par0044	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0344par0046	Don't worry, sir, you're already at the February 28th party! Don't let Mr. Secure get upset, he's at the February 28th party!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0346par0047	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0345par0048	Mr. President, why don't you promise Mr. Secret to the bench?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0347par0049	No, Mr. Elitaş...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0345par0050	Does he have to get up there and bully you?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0347par0051	...before, what does Mr. Secret want to say?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0345par0052	Is there supposed to be bullying there to make promises?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0348par0053	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0347par0054	Mr. Elitaş, would you listen? Mr. Secret, first, I'll ask him what he wanted to say.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0345par0055	Why did you promise the President?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0347par0056	Why did I promise who?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0345par0057	You promised the opposition group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0347par0058	Should I ask you, Mr. Elitaş, why I promised?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0345par0059	Do you have to go out there and bully him?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0347par0060	You weren't here in the previous session. We know why we promised! Please, Mr. Elitaş... Let Mr. President lead, dear, don't interfere! I'll ask you first, what are you talking about? What do you want to say, Mr. Secret?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0349par0064	I want you to promise me this, sir...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0347par0065	What did Mr. Tünce tell you? So the Ministry said the dates you made were different? Here you go, Mr. Solid.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0349par0068	No. Just because the decisions are published during my time as Minister doesn't mean I agree with those decisions. [[Smiles from CHP rows]] Excuse me. All decisions are published, sir. It's one thing for the Ministry to embrace it. They will be reminded of their good deeds by the name of God. Therefore, I am not the Minister in the decisions made in May. Since the May resolutions were published in June after I became Minister, it does not mean that the Ministry adopted these decisions. That's what I'm trying to offer.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0350par0073	Thank you, Mr. Solid.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0351par0074	Mr. Harden, have you or have you not been in office without a car for the last 30 years?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0350par0080	Mardin MP Erol Dora has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dora...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0352par0082	I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0350par0083	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0352par0084	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm very uncomfortable with this painting. Really, we've turned this coven into a standstill. The approach's getting to be kind of offensive. Right now...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0353par0085	Be careful with the glass, Mr. Hasip.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0352par0086	Look, Mr. Slim, we don't break hearts, we don't break honors, we don't break heads, but we break glasses in the head of the deserving. That's the way it is, that's the way we do it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0353par0087	You were nice, and suddenly you're a bully, and suddenly you're a bully.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0352par0088	While speaking against our party, some friends spoke to the Deputy Speaker of Parliament, saying: "Go to the BDP when you change parties. It's not the inn that passes the BDP, it's not a party that everyone will come to with their bags. (Applause from BDP rows) Once, it takes courage, faith, fighting, equality, freedom, a sense of justice. Look, no one should lose their tongue when they're talking, the way they respect a party, a corporate person.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0354par0089	Tell the CHP people.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0352par0090	Right now, I'm gonna count you one-on-one MP who's been to at least three parties at three parties.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0355par0091	What three, what three? More.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0352par0092	Come on, guys. Now, look, we don't see that kind of talk.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0356par0093	Weren't you in the CHP before?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0352par0094	Don't let anyone else get hurt by talking like that. Everyone comes here by the will of the people, and everyone who comes here by the will of the people is respected for us. Each party has its own agenda, its charter, even if we disagree with their views. Everybody be respectful. Parties of a similar system, parties of order, are the same as matrush dolls. They can change it between themselves, enter it, leave it. One day it will be there, and one day it will be there. We don't say anything like that, but when we talk about our party, I invite everyone to be a little more careful, and I invite respect. I specifically warned that. Another thing: this 4+4 education system has so many injuries, which one should I take? Now, I'm looking at the level thing here: 4 plus 4. I'm looking at the Constitution, and it says: "You have to finish primary school in order to become a member of the nation. " The primary school is five years. Now, is it possible that someone who's been studying for four years could be a congressman or not? I mean, guys, it's like chickens that grow in two months, like hormones, like vegetables... so tell me, say, he doesn't even have to study elementary school, he doesn't even have to study for four years, he doesn't have to be a congressman.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0357par0097	You don't have to read it to raise a hand and bring it down.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0352par0098	Look, if this is in the Constitution, you have to make an arrangement in accordance with this amendment. Oh, we don't care if you accept this motion or not, I'm being very clear. But the wrong account returns from Baghdad; wrong is wrong. You will apply for an elementary school degree in order to be elected MP to the 76th Amendment of the Constitution; for the mayor, for the city council, for all institutions I don't know, you will receive an elementary school diploma, and then a four-month certificate... Friends, there was no need for that, there was four months of military service, then there was two months of military service, twenty days of military service, and we turned that into a military service, a mercenary; he deposits it in a bank; he buys it. Now, tell me, in three months, a mayor has been discharged or a parliamentary interim election has been passed, and this law has passed, so what are you going to do? I'm asking you, do you think it's the congressman who finished the four-year phase? Give me your answer. This is the Constitution, you're either going to change it, you're going to make up for it, or you're going to make up the new Constitution, and you're going to make up the new Constitution. Since you can't make up the new Constitution, you're doing it wrong, that's what we're saying, it's wrong. It's not a four-month grade school, it's not a first four-year elementary school, it's not a degree, it's not a thesis, it's a next semester... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...if this passes, there won't be enough people to elect a congressman.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0358par0104	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the same motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Justice and Development Party Deputy Chiefs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Heromarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of the First Education and Development Act for Change in Some Laws; Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's proposal to make changes in the Law of Higher Education Institutions; Justice and Development Party MP Mustafa Elitaş; Vice President of Turkey's Assembly and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council; Matter has been changed as follows. Article 14 of the Law No. 4 - 222 has been changed as follows. Article 14 - (1) In primary schools and secondary schools, according to the size of them, and the presence of their kindergartens and private education classes, there are following officials at primary institutes: A) the principal and the vice principal, B) Teachers; classes, majors, pre-school education, special education teachers and traveling teachers and master teachers, C) Guidance specialists, D) Health, technical, general administration and other staff required by staff and training activities, including service classes. (2) The qualifications of the staff at primary education institutions are organised by regulation of the procedures and foundations of the appointment by duty and authority. Zuhal Topcu (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0359par0120	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0358par0121	Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who wants a word on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0360par0124	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. The greatest source of wealth in a nation is the raised quality of manpower. And the assurance of that, as everyone knows, is education. So I ask, on behalf of parents, teachers and students: Is it right to change a subject that deserves to be more political than anything else, to have so much political material being made, so often? You ruin what you did in the evening in the morning, you say what you said yesterday is true today, or one minister denies what he said. In what country is that allowed? What this means, my dear friends, is that either you can't find enough men to do the Ministry of National Education, everything goes in half, in trial error, in puzzle sense, or there's nothing in common with the fact that your word is pedagogical, not ideological, but pedagogic. Not everyone can be an educator, but a prime minister is expected to ask the former-new ministers the question: Are you aware of what you are doing? What purpose does it serve to play so much with the country's educational system? You've campaigned by exploiting many national and international organizations. In fact, as a government, you wanted to connect pre-school education to municipalities, but you failed to do so at the time, because you were told how this authority could result in the hands of municipalities under the command of separatism, which remained in central administration. Now, you're bringing pre-school education out of bounds. What's the matter, old sickness coming back? Have your separatist policies moved to another stage, or do you feel obliged to keep your promises to the terrorist organization during your talks with the PKK in Oslo? Have you ever imagined what would happen if this elder were to become an elder and the municipalities under the command of separatism entered this area? What was he saying, Mr. Steel? Pre-school education is important all over the world. In 2011, Ms. Nimet, we know that the highest investment for society today is pre-school investment. What's happened, what's changed, Your Honor? If it's so important, why are you taking pre-school education out of the scope of mandatory education; no, if it isn't, all these years of pre-school education, why are you making such a fuss because we blew it up? So, what do we call this OCD, this SBS shit? First you removed the OKS for stressing our students, and then you brought the SBS, and then one of the first jobs of Ms. Nimet was to remove the SBS. Not only did you turn middle school, but you also turned higher education into an interface with your skilled fingers. You gave up PTSD, brought YGS and LYS. It may not have affected the Bilals, the Sumeyes. Thousands of motherland children have been destroyed in this chaos wheel. And now, thankfully, you're explaining that you're going to go to the nationalist movement party's 90-year-old college without a test. I'll give you that, though. It wasn't easy for you to grasp. The Prime Minister accused the National Movement Party of not accountability in the 2011 elections, which he did 13 years ago, which he reached the level of the Nationalist Movement Party, 13 years later. It's okay. It's a phase for the Prime Minister. I also congratulate him for taking that distance in a short period of thirteen years. There is no consistency in AKP's training practices. Ali's a writer, day-to-day and shallow like a parent breaker. The consequences of ten years of AKP policies: I'm not telling you, Mr. Dinçer, the Minister of National Education. The network is talking about today's bankrupted community of our national education. It's like the AKP hasn't run the Ministry of National Education in ten years...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0361par0129	Veysel doesn't rule either!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0360par0130	And it's not like he's been a traveling companion. He's been a minister for ten years. No matter what kind of debris literature you do, from the day the AKP arrived in the country's administration, you've been holding yourself up as an undersecretary of the Prime Minister, a minister of the ministry? If there's a wreck, you're responsible for it, like any other minister. Therefore, you have no hope, and I salute all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0362par0132	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 5th article, which I will have read according to the order of the arrival and process according to their contradictions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Justice and Development Party Deputy Chiefs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Heromarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of the First Education and Development Act for Change in Some Laws; Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's proposal to make changes in the Law of Higher Education Institutions; Justice and Development Party MP Mustafa Elitaş; Vice President of Turkey's Assembly and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and Development; Ministers of Justice and the Council of the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Constitution; 5 People of Justice and the Council of the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State; We would also like to change the "in order to meet your needs" in Article 4 to "to meet your needs." Zühal Topcu Alim İlm Mehmet Günal Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Erdem Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahnamaraş MP Mahir Ünal; First-level Justice and Development Party Group Chairs Editors Nurettin Canikli; Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş; İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı; Justice and Development Party Chair Ahmet Aydın and Şeymaraş MP Ahmet Aydın İnanlı; First-level Justice and Education Act; Rize MP Hayati Yaşor and 2 MPs's Office; Minister of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Constitutional Affairs and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of Ministers; Ministers of Justice and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers; Mehmets of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Justice and the Council of Ministers of State of State of State of Justice and the Council; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Ministers; We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. March 28, 2012 Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ali Haydar Proposes Article 5. - Law 222 has been added to the following article. "Custom 4-The income obtained according to the first joke of Article 76 of this Law is also used by the state's private administrations to provide land, construction, maintenance and other needs for the institutions of primary education for eight years without interruption." I'm going to read and process the most incompatible motion: We propose and propose that Article 5 of the 199 bill be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Property One Fair Wolf Hasip Kaplan Nursel Aydoğan Altan Tan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0363par0163	We haven't heard, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0362par0164	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0364par0165	He didn't listen!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0365par0166	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0366par0167	We didn't hear the commission's decision.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0367par0168	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0366par0169	We really haven't.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0368par0170	We haven't heard.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0367par0171	Congressmans, this doesn't suit Congress, it doesn't suit lawmakers, it doesn't suit Turkey. It's not right.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0366par0172	Does it suit the Minister, he didn't listen to the motions?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0367par0173	Idris Baluken, Bingol MP, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0369par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to start by saluting your committee. Of course, for the country, it's a very important law that determines the future of the country, but when we look at the general debates here, we see a style that is far away from the approach to the content of the educational system, which is somehow looking for solutions. The focus of the whole discussion here on the formula is going to be 4+4, 8+4, 1+what do I know, and unfortunately, the fact that this country is dealing with all of its problems with education is the basis of a debate about transition to tangent. Are we or are we not, in fact, the most important problem of the educational system, the democratic, critical minister, the interrogating scientific educational system? Does today's changes change or change a system that has been around for 90 years in the traditional educational system that we're talking about, as if it's come out of a tornado? Is it or isn't it, in some way, bringing up an approach that makes education purely ideological about raising an individual, a monotheistic understanding, that somehow makes it sacred to the individual? We're far from these arguments. But the point of discussion was that it now had to be about taking the student as a permanent raw substance to formal ideology or capital and changing the education system that made him part of the system after he left the tornado. We believe that an important opportunity has been missed in this regard. Now, when we look at what's different from the system that's existed for 90 years, we see that the education system is opening up to market conditions and commercialization, so we're seeing a transition towards pay-per-view. After paying health care, the AKP government also opens the way for money education. Of course, here we have to discuss the social state phenomenon at the time, so even the most basic public services for a social state such as health, such as education, if we open them to market conditions, if we're putting them into business activities, we really think that this should be questioned seriously. For example, none of the discussions here are questioning how the problems of the students who spend this winter in the cold have been arranged. There's no need to go far -- we always give examples of our constituencies -- where students spent this winter trembling in the cold at the schools in Mamak, in the schools in Altındağ. When we come here and say you're the FATHIH Project, we buy, I don't know, billion-dollar tablets, we distribute them, and people, students, are educated in classrooms of 50, or in schools that are not fit for earthquakes. So I'd like to rephrase that there is no real discussion of real problems here. Of course, we don't hear anything about education in the main language, which is extremely important to us. We're in the process of creating a democratic constitution, and we don't know what the opinions are about that here. Look, just because he wants education and free education in the main language I'm talking about, he's currently in over 500 student prisons, and we see no improvement in the changes brought in which these students have been able to repair the freedom blockages that exist. Our main problem is: Does the education system raise and raise free individuals in Turkey to create a corridor of freedom in different beliefs, cultures, peoples to express themselves? Questioning, critical minister, democratic thinker, somehow not part of the system, are we putting free individuals in the system or not? Likewise, the problem of hundreds of thousands of teachers awaiting such a comprehensive arrangement is not discussed. The education workers who came to Ankara on this system now ate a lot of gas with the instructions you gave during the day... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...they ate fresh water and are spending the night in Ankara's cold. None of you wonder what these people want or what they want. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0370par0187	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0371par0190	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0370par0191	I submit the motion to your votes, but there's a roll call, so I'll call. Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Baydar, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Firat, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Küren, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Ekin, Mr. Ekinci, Mr. Öğütün, Mr. Acar, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Land, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Özer. I'll give you a minute, Mr. Lawmakers. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0372par0203	Those who agree... you said, President. Mr. President, those who agreed... you said, they raised the wrong hand, so it's accepted. You said those who agreed, they all raised their hands together.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0373par0204	They don't know why they moved it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0372par0205	No, they don't. Let's ask for the footage. Those who agreed... you said, "All together, they raised their hand in the name of God."
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0374par0206	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahnamaraş MP Mahir Ünal; First-level Justice and Development Party Group Chairs Editors Nurettin Canikli; Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş; İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı; Justice and Development Party Chair Ahmet Aydın and Şeymaraş MP Ahmet Aydın İnanlı; First-level Justice and Education Act; Rize MP Hayati Yaşor and 2 MPs's Office; Minister of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Constitutional Affairs and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of Ministers; Ministers of Justice and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers; Mehmets of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Justice and the Council of Ministers of State of State of State of Justice and the Council; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Ministers; We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. March 28, 2012 Ali Ihsan Kokturk (Zonguldak) and his friends The following article is added to Article 5-2222. Article 4 - The revenues obtained according to Article 76 of this Law are also used by the state's special administrations to provide land for eight years of uninterrupted education, construction, maintenance and repairs of its buildings and other needs. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0375par0215	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0374par0216	Ali Haydar Öner, MP of Isparta, asking for a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0376par0219	Mr. President, Mr. Commissioner, I have presented the footage of the meeting of the Commission on March 11th, to the Deputy Commissioner, Mr. Speaker of Parliament, and to the representative of the government.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0377par0220	Bravo, bravo!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0376par0221	When these images are examined, it will be understood that since 3:30 today, we have been working on a non-existent, non-exploited, disability, and disability text. This text is in the form of a false document. Mr. Commissioner and other signatories have signed a text that does not exist, which is incompatible with the facts, and sent it to Parliament. I am deeply sorry that the honorable Mr. Nabi Hunter, who has the title Professor, fell into this position. Indeed, a respected professor of the Commission should not have signed such an unrealistic document, not have his friends sign it. In the same way, Mr. Speaker unfortunately filed this document. Mr. Speaker says I don't have the authority. However, the Civil Code has authorized a review of the commissions. He's just like a paper dispatcher, delivering correspondence from place to place. Dear lawmakers, even the MOBESE cameras are more effective than Mr. Speaker, because when drivers see the MOBESE camera, they adjust their speed, but no one cares about the Speaker.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0378par0226	Respect, respect!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0376par0227	He's going to make a constitution with that head! He's going around, eating, drinking, entertaining himself, saying he's going to make a constitution. Mr. Cemil Cicek is the most infamous Speaker of this House.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0378par0229	Talk some respect! Show some respect!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0379par0230	Mr. Proposal, please...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0376par0231	I'm here to tell you what I know, no matter what anyone says, I don't care.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0378par0232	Talk some respect!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0379par0233	Mr. Proposal, please, speak in a clean language, I warn you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0376par0234	My tongue is very clean, I've milked well.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0379par0235	Mr. Proposer, I'm reading Article 67 of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0376par0236	No one can abuse my language's hygiene.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0380par0237	That's no way to talk to a man with state manners.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0381par0238	Civil Code 67, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0382par0239	I'm reading the 67th article of the Civil Code, please speak in a clean language, Mr. Proposer.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0383par0240	Mr. Speaker, the Civil Code has come to change its provisions, the gong has gone, the nation is at odds. Mr. Speaker, if two very valuable ladies could see the application of the Vice President...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0384par0241	You're a governor in the state, you've got state manners.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0383par0242	I've done the governorship with honor, you can't insult my governorship!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0385par0244	Congressman, please...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0383par0245	Maybe he'd get a little inspiration if he watched two very valuable Vice Presidents. Congressmans, recently, there have been promises to deliver milk to children, sir, to close the classrooms, to enter the SEC without a test. Where did this milk come from?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0386par0247	Wrong? If you're against it, say it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0383par0248	Don't try to bribe our children. You can't save 4+4 from sinking into the mud with milk.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0386par0249	If you're against milk, say it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0383par0250	The AKP did not have a project to remove classrooms, so you can't steal CHP's project and sell it to the public. Don't lay your hands on our children, our grandchildren, because our future, our grandchildren, our children's modern, democratic, secular education. Avoid the next generation of segregating approaches because eight years of training have been successful. Mr. Canikli said our daughters were deprived of schools. Mr. Prime Minister said our children couldn't go to school. But Mr. Ministry's data, TÜİK. The data also denied Mr. Canikli, and the Prime Minister denied it. You won't get anywhere by deceiving people. The Commissioner's not in position. Mr. Secretary, there's one, there's none. There is no Speaker. And there's no code of law on this rule of non-existent.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0387par0253	I have it, I have it.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0383par0254	If the President doesn't veto this, the Constitutional Court, or the nation will lose their conscience. My respects.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0388par0257	Members of the law, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Justice and Development Party Deputy Chiefs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Heromarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of the First Education and Development Act for Change in Some Laws; Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's proposal to make changes in the Law of Higher Education Institutions; Justice and Development Party MP Mustafa Elitaş; Vice President of Turkey's Assembly and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Ministers of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and Development; Ministers of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Constitution; Ministers of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council; Council of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council; In addition to Article 4, we would like to change the "in order to meet your needs" statement to be "to meet your needs." Zuhal Topcu (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0389par0265	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0388par0266	Coral Akşener who wants to speak on the motion...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0390par0267	Mehmet Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0388par0268	Mehmet Erdogan, Müğla MP. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0391par0271	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Movements to make a amendment motion on Article 5 of Law Proposal 199. I hereby salute your high council. The most important asset of a society is manpower, but there's no such thing as the law we're discussing. The proposal for the law we're interviewing is very vague. I've seen very few people who don't want to have their child read. Instead of confusing people in a society where everyone wants to have their child read, we need to open the way for our children, our young people. Of course, it is important that mandatory education is four years, eight years, or twelve years, but more importantly, the quality of education we will give our children during that time. There are no provisions in this bill on how to improve the quality of education. In order for education to be efficient and successful, the teacher who goes to school in the morning needs to go to school with enthusiasm and excitement. Any law that can be passed without creating this environment can only be a story of education. You're going to solve teachers' problems so the teacher can go to school in the morning excitedly. You'll give the teacher a salary in accordance with her duties, responsibility and status in the community, and when she retires, you won't ignore her. In the morning, you will give the student hope and promise the future so that the student can go to school happy. How will students find this excitement in an environment where there is no equal opportunity? Where there are people, of course, there are mistakes, you can solve them over time, but there are some jobs that don't admit mistakes. Let's take a look at some of the mistakes made during the AKP ruling period that were not acceptable: 1) The corruption of the university exam, the theft of questions. 2) Corruptions on police university of applied sciences exams, thefts of questions. 3) Questions on the Public Staff Exam include thefts, corruption. 4) The irregularities of the teacher's appointment exam, corruption. These irregularities are not acceptable because these corruptions, thefts of questions, are a violation of our children's dreams, hopes, efforts, and, most importantly, the right of the subject. What kind of religious youth will those who are so insensitive to their subject's rights be raised? Let's make a better law before we make new mistakes while there's time. Stop ignoring the opposition's motions. Do not prevent opposition from contributing to the law that will determine the future of our country and our young ones. I wish you all the good luck of the law we're discussing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0392par0280	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0393par0284	Mr. President, yesterday the Minister of National Education made a statement, and I'm reading exactly the same from the transcripts: from 1997 to 2002, the increase in schooling rates doesn't even find 1%. As of 2003, the schooling rate for each of the ministers has been higher than 1%. The Minister's statement does not reflect the facts. Information on schooling rates from statistics on the National Ministry of Education website: (The level of primary schooling increased from 97-98 to 84.7 per cent from 2002 to 2003 to 91 per cent in five years, an increase of 6.3 points in five years. The minister stated that from 2003 to 2010-2011, it increased from 91 per cent to 98.4 per cent, so there was an increase of 7.4 points in eight years. So the increase in schooling during the AKP period is less than one point per year, and as of the period before that, it's above one point; it's the opposite of what the Minister said. I'm presenting it to the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0394par0288	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0395par0289	The Minister isn't giving the Clave the right information, then. So if the information given by a minister is wrong...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0394par0290	Please, Mr. Vural... Mr. Secretary, do you have any words?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0396par0292	I'll check the data, and I'll get back to you because different sources may be giving you different information. If we're wrong, we'll fix it, don't worry. We're sure of the information we're giving, we'll review it, we'll share it with you guys.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0394par0293	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There are three motions on the 6th article, which I will have read according to the order of the arrival and process according to their contradictions. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Justice and Development Party Deputy Chiefs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Heromarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of the First Education and Development Act for Change in Some Laws; Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's proposal to make changes in the Law of Higher Education Institutions; Justice and Development Party MP Mustafa Elitaş; Vice President of Turkey's Assembly and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and Development; Ministers of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Constitution; Ministers of the Council of the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; We would like to add the following declaration of "The National Ministry of Education" in Article 11 of Article 11. Özcan Yeniçarı Alim Light Zuhal Topcu Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Erdem Mehmet Günal Congressmans, now that the motions I'm going to read are in the same context, I'm going to have the motions read together, and I'm going to process them, and I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Şemammarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chairs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Berçkaplı; Justice and Development Party Chair Ahmet Aydın and Şeymaraş MP Mahir Ünal; Minister of First Education and Education Act for Some Law and Rize MP Hayati Yaşıpı and 2 MPs; Minister of Higher Education Agency for Peace; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Ministership of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of the Council of the Council of State of the Council; Ministers of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council; Minister of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council; We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Free Special Hasan Ören Emine Gıltur Tarhan M. Volcano Canalioğlu Kadir Gökmen Öğün We propose that Article 6 of the 199 bill be removed from the proposal text. Secret Pervin Buldan Property One Nursel Aydoğan Hasip Kaplan Altan Tan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0397par0321	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0394par0322	Sırrı Sakık, MP of Müsh who wants to talk about the same proposals. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0398par0324	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. In fact, there are a lot of storms like this, so eight years of training or 4+4+4? That doesn't concern us very much, actually, because we're not in it, so it's not very elegant to get into a boatman's fight over something we're not in. Now, we would expect that, in the name of the people who founded this republic together, today, this law proposal should be designed in accordance with the spirit of those who founded this republic, so those storms that the two opposition parties pulled out of yesterday, in which there is freedom for Kurds, for the Kurdish mother tongue, for the clergy school, and for the other, for the people who have not been able to speed themselves up. A law with a grudge, a hatred, a law with everything in it. Now, on February 28th, yes, you're getting a rematch, and it should be, but, well, didn't they bring in the eight-year-olds who imposed this eight-year training? Didn't the armed forces force force the people? And did they not wear the shirt of the madman? If you're really very democratic about this, you should have brought the same rematch about the DMV, but you're not doing it. You don't make laws in this country according to the spirit of the people, you make laws of your own. You make laws of blood from time to time. This is the law of blood in this country for different identities because there are no Kurds in it, no other peoples in it, no education in the native language. A man's mother tongue is as lawful as his mother's milk. The more sacred the Turkish language is to you, the more sacred our native language is to us. The people who formed the republic together today... in the 90-year period of this language... you've beaten it, ignored it, ruled it out... but at the point we're here today, we're talking about democratic openings, freedoms, but we're still witnessing the laws of this blood of the native language. That's not enough, and in other areas, you don't even have the patience for a public to fight democracy in a democratic area, and we've all seen what's happening in the last few days, in Neroz. That's not enough. The Minister of the Interior, who is the architect of your governments, says something yesterday:..... where does he get this number? - We'll choke them with spit. By God, Prime Minister, you and your ministers and your entire group should know that Kurds are like borans. You don't spit on the horn, and when you spit on it, that spit comes back on your face. You have no right. No one has the right to humiliate a people this much. You have no right to wrong a people by trusting your law enforcement forces, whether it's militant forces behind you or law enforcement. If you don't give us the law, if you don't respect our mother tongue in the law, but at least you'll know your manners, not insult a people. In that spit, those who say so will drown in that spit. Let those who say that look back, from the founding of this republic to the archives so far... that these people do not submit to such things... and we clearly say, if you really want to do something, you need an educational system with all the differences of this country, the colors of this entire country. As long as this educational system doesn't exist, we can't design our inner peace in this country, we can't have freedom. Education is the cause of all fights in the native language. It's because we've held our mother tongue, which we've been fighting for 90 years with ceberut governments, and as long as our mother tongue is not liberated, our fight will continue.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0399par0331	Thank you, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0398par0332	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0399par0334	Hasan Ören, MP of Manisa, who wants to speak on the same motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0400par0337	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 6th amendment of the 199th Amendment. I see you're determined to pass the law, and you may be right, but so are we. This law has nothing to do with a consult in Turkey, NGOs, democratic mass organizations, but I'm not on this side; we're right, we're right. In the end, you're going to pass this law by the will of the people, by the will of the people, but I'm confused by the way this law has come to this House. Minister, if possible, I'd be happy if he'd listen to me. We're all Muslims. Our religious beliefs, our spiritual feelings are equal to all of us. We fear lying, and fear the bondman, and fear lying testimony. While living in Turkey, we have taken the laws, the laws, the Constitution, to guide us from this stand, and we swear on my honor and honor that I am faithful to the Constitution. Indeed, when this bill is being proposed in the Commission -- Mr. Commissioner, I don't have it here -- Mr. Minister -- based on what emotion, moral emotion, or commitment to the Constitution, is it really in accordance with the law, Mr. Minister, that 21 articles have been passed in accordance with the Constitution? Do you feel good about it? If you answer that, for the record... why do I want it on the record? My fellow lawmakers from the bench today are reporting from the 97. If there were 21 articles passed within twenty minutes of the Commission, if these articles were in accordance with the law and the Civil Code, my valued deputies were in that Commission, and if we had just received information from our Group Vice President here, we would know. You said, please, I want you to answer that. My dear friends, you've done a great deal of impropriety. This will also be a phase for the next term. You've shown your true colors about this. You don't have patience, you don't allow anything to be discussed. You're saying democracy, you're not leaving the provinces, you're taking the teachers, you're taking them further, you're preventing them from coming to Ankara as individuals, you're going to talk about their problems, you're going to talk about their democratic rights, you're going to stop them from coming to Ankara. Mr. Metiner, you sing on TV, you talk all over the place. Is the concept of advanced democracy 20 minutes past the 21 articles in this Commission? What if we discuss it for 25 days, discuss it for 30 days? What can't you stand? Why are your limitations so weak? When is this substance going to take effect? This law will take place in six months, five months from now, 2012-2013 in the school year. What's the hurry? There's a law piled up in the General Assembly, can't we get it out? But your head and your mentality are different. You know how you always say that those who were sentenced on September 12th, September 12th, are on this side of the desk? You're the ones who live in the thornless rose garden of September 12th. (CHEERING) You didn't go to any trouble there, this was where the torture took place. This place has seen the tyranny of September 12th Fascism, and you have been prepared. You continue to have a sense of politics over him. But he didn't get a facial transplant.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0401par0341	Why did you say no to the Constitution?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0400par0342	Mustafa Kemal's face did not suit you. The face of secularism, the face of the republic doesn't suit you. The surgery seemed to be successful, but the facial graft was incompatible.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0401par0343	Why did you say no to the Constitution?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0400par0344	The mask on your face has fallen off, and now the real mask has come out.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0402par0345	That doesn't sound like you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0400par0346	You're trying to force those thoughts in the back of your head against Parliament.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0403par0348	Mr. Ören, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0400par0349	My dear friends, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0404par0351	You can't tolerate a sentence, you can't tolerate a Twitter sentence.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0403par0352	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions of the same nature have not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Justice and Development Party Deputy Chiefs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Heromarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of the First Education and Development Act for Change in Some Laws; Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's proposal to make changes in the Law of Higher Education Institutions; Justice and Development Party MP Mustafa Elitaş; Vice President of Turkey's Assembly and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and Development; Ministers of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Constitution; Ministers of the Council of the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; We would like to add the following declaration of "The National Ministry of Education" in Article 11 of Article 11. Özcan Yeniçeri (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0405par0360	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0403par0361	Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP who wants to speak on the proposal, please come in.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0406par0363	Mr. President, good lawmakers, now we must not confuse one's relationship with another's bolt with another's bolt. A wheel has no soul in its relationship with a wheel, no awareness, no mutual relationship, no emotion, but a man has a soul in his relationship with a person, knowledge, influence, and influence. So this law that was brought in actually needs to be evaluated and evaluated in this way. I mean, so far, okay, here's the way the law came in wrong, we've explained, the treatments there are not entirely acceptable, democratic rules, yes, but let's explore the other sides of this law. For example, as I've just told you, a structure was designed for us; it was brought to us; it could also be brought to us by September 12th, and the Roman Caesars could bring it, and it's really what it came from, and it needs to be done at this point. So we put up a structure, and we said, let the teacher fit in, let the student obey, let the parents follow, and let the community accept it. It's a total perspective; it's an imposition, but if it were done, like in marketing, what people want, what people want, what needs, what needs will satisfy this structure that we'll bring to the extent that we're going to need it, if it was provided with its research and investigation, then yes, because of these reasons, it would be six full and it should be approved. What I want to say here is that just as September 12th designed society from above, we're doing the same thing in a different way as when we came up with a design like this in a structural sense. Every system that doesn't put a man in its center, that doesn't serve man and mankind, is incomplete, crippled. The subject of the devices will not achieve any application at a place where humans are replaced with objects, gentlemen. Advanced technologies, high structures, and advanced methods alone are not enough to make a person better and more useful; a spiritual, national, human and moral education system, no matter what structure and tool it uses, creates a selfish person who pursues the needs of his own soul, not the needs of his own. Education is a process with a human subject. Any political, economic, or educational system that makes a person look like an object is not even worth discussing. An educational system that upsets the pyramid of values can create neither value nor value. Before the tablet and the machine, it is essential to raise a scientist and a technical man, a professor before school and university, and a doctor before the hospital. Dear lawmakers, education is a process of vital importance in the future of society. Such a process can never be used as a tool for ambitions, passions, obsessions, and feelings of revenge. It is necessary to condemn and deny any understanding that makes a man an object, sees education as an instrument, reduces education to the means of rematching. Education should be based on raising generations with identities, personalities, and ideals. He can develop an educational system with a continuity of individual, ideal, and religious people. Buildings that go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on The new structures may be included in the system during the process, but with the absence of the main structures. The desire to rebuild the system with each term is dangerous for the continuity of the nation. Societys hold on to the future through continuity, not temporary. In the past few years, dozens of systems have been activated in education, including the digits system, the courtship system, the credit system, the field change. Today we're dealing with a new system. If I say my last words in five minutes, I must say that advanced technologies, high structures, and advanced methods alone are not enough to make a person better and more useful. An educational system that has no spiritual, scientific, human, or moral value will raise people who pursue the needs of the soul, no matter what structure or tool they use. He sends his regards, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0407par0371	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on the 7th article, which I will have read according to the order of arrival and process according to their contradictions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahnamaraş MP Mahir Ünal; First-level Justice and Development Party Deputy Chairs Nurettin Canikli; Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş; İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı; Justice and Development Party Deputy Ahmet Aydın and Şemarmarash MP Ahmet Aydın; First-level Justice and Education Act; Vice-President of Law and Rize MP Hayati Yaşim Yaserı, 2 MPs; Minister of Higher Education Agency for Peace; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Security of the Constitution; Minister of the Constitution and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of the Council of the Constitution and the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Constitution; Minister of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council; We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Recep Gürkan Aydın Ayyadın Hasan Ören Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kamer Young Article 7-146.1973 and Article 22 of Article 1739 of Elementary and Education Law have been changed in the following way. Article 22-The mandatory elementary school age begins at the end of September, when the child finishes 72 months and continues for eight years without interruption. We propose that the "6-14" declaration of "6-13" in Article 7 of Article 199 shall be changed to "6-14" and "14" as in "6" as in "6-14" as in "14" as in "14" as in "15." Pervin Buldan Property One Hasip Kaplan Nursel Aydoğan Ertuğul Kukçı Altan Tan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of Justice and Education's Law and Rize MP Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı; Justice and Development Party MP Ahmet Aydın and Şamoramash MP Mahir Ünal; Vice President of the Constitution and Vice President of the Council of Justice and Education; Minister of Justice and 2 MPs of the Constitution; Minister of State of State of State of State and the Constitution; Minister of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of State of State of State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution; Minister of the Council of State of State of State of State of the Constitution and the Council of State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution and the State of State of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of the Constitution and the Council of State of the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of the Constitution; Mehmet Şandir Oktay Vural Özcan Yeniçeri Alim Light Zuhal Topcu Lütfu Türkkan "Article 22 of National Education Basic Law No. 1739, dated 7-14/6/1973, has been changed as follows. "The pre-school era includes children in their 60-72-month-old group. This era begins at the end of September, when the child is 5 years old, and ends at the end of the school year when he turns 6. The mandatory elementary school age includes children in a 6-14-year-old group. This era begins at the end of September of the year when the child is 6 years old, and ends at the end of the school year when he turns 14 and turns 15. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0408par0404	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0407par0405	I'm reading the reason: Reason: The following are facts that indicate that pre-school education is necessary and important: 1. Preschool education is an environment for the child to get to know him. The child learns to accept himself, to accept others, to protect his rights, and to respect others' rights in group games. So it goes from a self-directed world to a social-directed sensitivity. 2. Environmental stimulus wealth diversifies the child's mental experience. Preschool education institutions increase the development of the child's senses, the perception of their education. In the process of reasoning, it helps him, and creativity is strengthened. 3. Preschool education institutions help to absorb the cultural values of society by training the child in a social environment. In this educational environment, cultural habits are more easily earned. 4. The child's free will gives him self-restriction experiences. In this educational environment, ruled by consciousness, the basis for which he puts the rules of his own actions in universal measure, which anyone can adopt. 5. The child's competencies and inadequacies, emotional problems, are addressed in a protective manner at an early age, detectable and necessary measures, with careful supervision provided in these institutions. 6. Preschool education plays a role that prepares the child for elementary school. The child is given the opportunity to understand and reveal his own thoughts, feelings, and feelings. In this way, the child's ability to speak is strengthened, the basis for creativity and individual behavior. Seven. Pre-school education institutions take on the responsibilities of working mothers during certain hours of the day, while allowing the mother to be productive at the same time, while preventing the child from being damaged under inefficient conditions and hands. 8. Another social phenomenon that makes pre-school education necessary is the problem of children who come back from socioeconomic or damaging conditions. A conscious pre-school education exercise for these children may prevent them from being harmed by the underprivileged conditions they are under. So far, scientific research and modern education have shown that children's pre-school lives are one of the most important factors that affect mind, body, emotion and social development in the years ahead. It is also known that education at this age has a significant share in the development of the child's abilities. According to analysis based on the study results, 50% of the mental development until the age of 17 is up to 4 years old. From the age of four to eight, 30% have been determined; from 8 to 17 years old, 20% have been obtained. 33% of the school's achievements until the age of 18, can be explained by the achievement of pre-school years. Pre-school education is the key to the entire educational system, which should be directed by a very serious, scientific and systematic organization not to be left to coincidences in this regard. The continuity of the individual's education is an important factor in pre-school education, since transitioning from pre-school to primary education is an important process. The more compatible and healthy this transition is, the more successful the individual's elementary school years will be, the more lasting it will be between the two institutions. Thus, pre-school education is essential to the continuity of development and education -- that is, individuals who form the object of development and education -- to change through the process and advance through the process. With this change, it is intended to make pre-school mandatory. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0409par0422	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0407par0423	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Çiray, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Baydar, Mr. Firat, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Acar, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Öner, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Kuyoğlu, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Star, Mr. Illum. I'll give you a minute, Mr. Lawmakers. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The "6-14" of the "6-13" declaration in Article 7 of the 199 row bill is to be changed to "6-14"; the "5" sign as "6" and the "14" as in "14" as in "15." Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0410par0441	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0407par0442	I'm reading the reason: Most children of this age may not be able to show physical and mental development that can even provide self - care for themselves and prepare them for basic education. It is not appropriate to re-open this approach, which has already been tried and abandoned due to its shortcomings. Pre-school education (60-72 months) should be considered under mandatory comprehensive school education, not ignoring the importance and improvements provided, but 72. Children who have completed their month must start elementary school. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who do not... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahnamaraş MP Mahir Ünal; First-level Justice and Development Party Deputy Chairs Nurettin Canikli; Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş; İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı; Justice and Development Party Deputy Ahmet Aydın and Şemarmarash MP Ahmet Aydın; First-level Justice and Development Party (Second) Assession of Some Laws and Rize MP Hayati Yaşin Yaserın Yaserı, 2 MPs; Minister of Higher Education Agency (Secresssal Party) and Vice Minister of the Security Agency (Secrets of the Constitutional Law); Justice and Security Council of the Security Agency (Secrets of the Constitution) and the Security Council (Secures) of the Council (Secrets of the Council of Ministers of Ministers) and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers (Secures). We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Recep Gürkan (Edirne) and his friends Article 7-146.1973 and Article 22 of Article 1739 of Elementary and Education Law have been changed in the following way. Article 22-The mandatory elementary school age begins at the end of September, when the child finishes 72 months and continues for eight years without interruption. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0411par0455	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0407par0456	Recep Gürkan, Edirne MP.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0412par0458	We can't applaud every Recep!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0413par0459	Mr. President, before I begin my remarks, right now, I am celebrating the training workers who resist police club, pepper spray, pressure water in Kızılay, and condemning the torture of these educational workers. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There's a saying that we can't play the song of freedom with the instrument of violence. We've been trying to do it for about a month. Despite all pedagogic approaches, all scientific approaches, the law is persistently tried to pass, and as a result, it will be based on the majority of Parliament. You've turned six years of age into five years, you'll pass by, but Mr. Secretary said: "We'll make the upper border, the ceiling for seventy-two months." There's a principle in the classrooms: Children born in the same year, such as January and October, pass at different times. In fact, many pedagogists say that if your child was born that year -- which you have expressed in some sense -- was born after September -- do not send the child with that age group -- in October, November, December, and send the child a year later. So you're going to do this, you're going to pass these five years, at least move that upper boundary to eighty-four months, so you can give the citizens a little more freedom, and the citizens' freedom zones will expand a little bit. Dear friends, I'm not here to do politics, I'm an educator, I've worked in the education industry for 27 years, I've taught, I've been a manager. Now, when we brought up this law, it was always said: "We will take the rematch of February 28th; we will raise spiteful youth; they have survived us on February 28th; we are the underdogs of February 28th; our students have not been able to read, their freedoms of learning have been taken away from them; these decisions have prevented the nation from learning religion." Of course, they said a lot of things to those who signed those decisions on February 28th, to those who told them, to those who made those decisions as an offer. I don't want to say them here. It's such a contradiction that for the ruling party, on the one hand, they abused February 28th and the oppressors, and they persecuted us. On the other hand, you made those who were told that they were being persecuted by you. See what Mr Mehmet Sütın, Minister of National Education of February 28th, says: "The former Minister of National Education Mehmet Süthane, who has been in a row about uninterrupted education, has thrown the ball into the Right Way Party." I'm moving his line of solid uninterrupted training in whatever direction my party decided. I voted the same way as 99.9 per cent of the members of our party voted. I am not a person who later denies what I have said, he said. Noting that he believed in eight years uninterrupted as a scientist, he also said that eight years are less likely to start this term. Now I say to Mr. Secret, if you're defending what you're saying as a scientist, you're either going to say no to this law here, or as a scholar, I can't stand behind what I'm saying. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I also want to remind you that those who persecuted you on February 28th, those who prevented your children, the children of this country from learning, you must have forgotten. At the time, the 18-point MGK decisions were held on March 13, 1997, in just thirty-eight minutes at the Council of Ministers and are fully agreed upon. Who signs it? God rest his soul, Necmettin Erbakan Prime Minister, Şevket Kazan, Abdulatif Sener, Mehmet Sahmet, Cevat Ayhan, Musa Demirci, Necati Çelik, Recai Kutan, İsmail Kahraman and your votes, Abdullah Gul.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0414par0469	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0415par0471	We're more... we're more...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0416par0472	Count, count, count...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0414par0473	They're counting, why do you object? The motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0416par0476	Did you count it?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0417par0477	What do you mean? Did you ever count it? You didn't count.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0414par0478	I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept...
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0417par0479	Did you count it?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0418par0480	Why would he count it?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0417par0481	He didn't count, he didn't count.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0419par0482	Those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There are three motions on the 8th article, which I will have read according to the order of arrival and process according to their contradictions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Justice and Development Party Deputy Chiefs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Heromarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of the First Education and Development Act for Change in Some Laws; Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's proposal to make changes in the Law of Higher Education Institutions; Justice and Development Party MP Mustafa Elitaş; Vice President of Turkey's Assembly and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Ministers of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Justice and Development; Ministers of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers; Ministers of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Ministers of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; We propose the addition of the Imam Hatip Middle School to come after the first sentence of Article 24 of Article 24 and the removal of the second sentence from the article text. Alim Light Lütfu Türkkan Zuhal Topcu Congressmans, since the motions I'm about to submit are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Şemammarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of Justice and Development Party Group Chairs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Berçkaplı; Minister of Justice and Development Party Ahmet Aydın and Şamir İnal; Minister of First Education and Education Act for Some Laws and Rize MP Hayati Yaza MP Yaşıpor and 2 MPs; Minister of Higher Education Institutions of the Constitution; Minister of Justice and Development Party; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of State of Justice and Development; Minister of State of the Constitution; Minister of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of State of State of the Constitution; Ministers of the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council; Minister of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council; We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Sakina Öz Kadir Gökmen Öğur Öğütür Special Good morning, M. Volcano Canalioğlu Dr. Aytun Çiray Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the 199 bill be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Property One Hasip Kaplan Nursel Aydoğan Ertuğul Kukçı Altan Tan Does the Commission participate in the same motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0420par0509	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0419par0510	I'm reading the reason for the Peace and Democracy Party: The reason for the separation of secondary schools is that the disclosure of negative conditions created by the presence of students with different developmental properties among the reasons is fundamental, but it contradicts the ruling that they can be established with elementary schools or secondary schools. It will also cause serious problems as to which primary school, which will be identified as secondary school or where secondary schools will be merged with primary schools or upper secondary schools, where the ministry has done so far and has no public study, at least the criteria are undetermined, which are largely not fit to separate from the physical structure of schools today. Another problem is which one of the teachers will work at which institution. In this manner, teachers will be forced to travel to school. On the other hand, it's Sakine Öz, Manisa MP, who wants to make a statement on the same property.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0421par0515	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 8th Amendment to the First and Education Law and to some Laws. I salute you all. This substance I'm promised is an absolute cornerstone of power to reveal its true intentions. See, the first proposal the AKP group's deputy presidents made: ▪ The total education period of primary education institutions is eight years. First-level and second-level schools can also be established in independent schools, as well as by means of means and conditions. Then the proposal went to the subcommittee, where the sentence can be established along with the second level of secondary education. It is also established in the form of the second level. See what it says in the article where AKP has been forced to accept this proposal by violence, which is now being passed on to the National Education Commission. See what it says: the establishment of elementary education institutions in the form of independent schools as elementary school and secondary schools is essential, but by means of means and conditions, you can build a student in primary schools with elementary schools or upper secondary schools. See, in 1997, eight years of uninterrupted education were accepted, and there are many politicians at the Welfare Party who are policymakers today in AKP. Look at the open transcripts, what did they say then: How can you get a six-year-old and a 14-year-old to read together? What are you doing now?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0422par0518	Either way, it's our obligation.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0421par0519	You're going to have a nine-year-old boy and an 18-year-old boy study in the same building. Who will explain this contradiction to us? So you're making this much further decision that you criticize, criticize, and use at every opportunity to make eight years of uninterrupted training a failure. Congressmans, it's very grave that people contradict themselves in politics. It's self-responsive. Or will you find your friends who said those words in 1997, as you did in the Commission, and inflict violence on them as well? Congressmans, you say that nine-ten-year-olds are going to create electives based on talent and development preferences, you're talking about the preference of a nine-year-old boy. You use children to fulfill your own political ambitions. Do you know that a boy of his age can't choose with his own free will? If you don't know, none of you have raised a child, none of you have consulted a scientist. No, if you do, then you're blackening our children's future on purpose. I'm having a hard time deciding which one is the worst. Dear lawmakers, for example, let us imagine that a child will be directed to imam orator classes after the fourth grade. No, it's not for me, I don't want to go to the imam hospital in high school.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0423par0524	There is, there is!
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0421par0525	That's how neighborhood pressure works. Ayşe Hanım, Ahmet Bey, İmam Hatibe took his child from school and gave it to another high school. The student will find himself in an imposition without using his free will. I'm asking you: What MP has the luxury of saying yes to an offer that will make the children of this country unhappy? It must have been because the situation has already been seen that our President Kemal Kilicdaroglu has been deafened to the calls for reconciliation. Dear lawmakers, aside from the violence caused by CHP, the people who were injured there had a conscience, but even the changes caused by the proposal during their trip to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey show the confusion of the AKP. First, after the fourth grade, it was called open school, and then it was abandoned. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] At the age of her age, she was unable to decide how to start school. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0424par0531	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Justice and Development Party Deputy Chiefs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Heromarash MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister of the First Education and Development Act for Change in Some Laws; Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's proposal to make changes in the Law of Higher Education Institutions; Justice and Development Party MP Mustafa Elitaş; Vice President of Turkey's Assembly and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; Minister of the Council of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Ministers of Justice and Development; Minister of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Justice and Development; Ministers of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Justice and Development; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers; Ministers of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Ministers of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Constitution; We propose the addition of the Imam Hatip Middle School to come after the first sentence of Article 24 of Article 24 and the removal of the second sentence from the article text. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0425par0540	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit06spe0424par0541	I'm having it read. In addition to the creation of the Imam Hatip Middle School, primary school and secondary school are separate schools. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-28sit07spe0424par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 199. No commission. It's been postponed. On Thursday (March 29th 2012) to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order to discuss the draft and proposals and other tasks, according to the decision taken, it is now 2:00 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
