tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Sinan Oğan, the Iğdır MP who has recently asked for a comment on the growing terrorist incidents. Here you go, Mr. Oğan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Congressmans, there's a very intense hum in our General Assembly, so that we can all hear Mr. Hatibin's words correctly... I can't hear my own voice from the humming. If we can stop the humming... Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0002par0018	Thank you, Reverend President. Dear President, the esteemed MPs, I want to condemn Israel's attacks in the month of the month of mourning, creating new mourning, killing new lives, putting out new furnaces; I condemn them with violence, hatred, rage. It's World Television Day. Today we see how dangerous it will be when televisions are used for the right purpose, but in the wrong hands. I'd like to take this opportunity to recap on how Congress TV was censored in the wrong hands. Happy World Television Day, even though Parliament shuts down AKP TV after seven o'clock. Meanwhile, the esteemed MPs, the National Movement Party, issued a motion yesterday, which had given us a gene. His gene is one of the most natural rights of the opposition. It was a right given by the Parliament to carry out its command, and the National Movement Party took advantage of it. Yesterday, however, a bureaucrat, the Director General of the Anadolu Agency, announced that he condemned our party from his Twitter address. This, first of all, is an insult to you, Mr. Justice and Development Party MPs, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Arinc, and an insult to your government. Yesterday, we used the right that the Constitution gave us, and you, as a ruling, you went out, you defended yourself here, the vote was held, and democratically the rights were granted -- even with these up-and-up hands -- but does the Director General of the Anadolu Agency have that right? I'm asking the AKP members of the group: do you approve of this? The head of state-run Anadolu Agency should mind his own business, it is not the job of the Anadolu Agency's Director General, it is his job to condemn the DP, it is his duty to do its duty. So everyone will know their place. In this country, unfortunately, we're faced with these unfortunate statements by political bureaucrats who are anxious to get out of their way. And I'm hoping that the members of the Justice and Development Party will come forward and condemn this bench, where the Chief Justice Officer of the Anadolu Agency will be involved in his own affairs. And, of course, today is Honor Day of our Mardin, which I would like to celebrate, as well as your separatist Metropolitan Law of Mardin, which the enemy can't occupy today, although Mardin's -- for his sake -- happy Honor Day, and so will the people of Mardin. Dear lawmakers, terrorism, unfortunately, has been the most important item on our agenda lately. On one hand, Israel's terror continues, while on the other, our soldiers are martyred because of your misbehavior. Every day, three to five of our soldiers are martyrs. While threatening this country with a terrorist weapon, terrorist accomplices have come to the point of threatening the government with hunger strikes. In fact, I'd like to put it this way: you were in power alone until yesterday, and today you have coalition partners. One of your coalition partners is the other Barzani of Imran, who has become your coalition partner. You visit the hunger strikers in Uludere, Uludere, and everywhere else, where there's trouble with this country, dear commissioners -- interested commissioners -- and if you visit the families of the martyrs. And I'm calling these commissions from here: pay a visit to our veterans, don't you think your foot is going that way? Those who run to Uludere, those who run to other places, why, I wonder, do they never go to visit their families of martyrs? The hunger strike was on TV for days. The state of our martyr families, our veterans, why is there no agenda in this country? We've left you terror at zero point, and you've set out to say zero problems, zero neighbors, and unfortunately you've come to this situation today with zero sincerity against terror. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0003par0028	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. The second statement outside the agenda belongs to Mardin MP Abdurrahim Akdağ, who asked for a statement on November 21, Mardin's Liberation Day. Here you are, Mr. Akdağ.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0004par0033	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself to mark the Day of Salvation of Mardin, 21 November. I salute your high council. Speaking of occupation, first of all, I condemn the Israeli regime of Jerusalem, and send my greetings and greetings to my Palestinian brothers from here. Dear MPs, we know that you have been assigned to occupy Mardin with several other officers alongside French Colonel Norman. Mardin survived the occupation with a strategy of intelligence and courage, without firing a single bullet, except for the ball that was fired from the castle. The 91st anniversary of Mardin's salvation was celebrated for the last time in downtown 2010, since it became clear that Mardin had never been invaded and therefore could not have a day of salvation. According to the decision made by Mardin City Council, it was set on November 21st as Honor Day. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, during the AK PARTI ruling period, we tried to bring services to our Mardinn people in all areas. Between 2003-2012, a $168m grant was used for our citizens in health care. At this time, the 244-bed Redtepe State Hospital and 150-bed Midyat State Hospital were also opened. The construction of the 300-beded Mardin State Hospital and the 150-bed Mardin State Hospital is still under way. Electricity blackouts and voltage irregularities are known to be one of the biggest problems in the region. In 2002, $7.5m was earmarked for electricity, and in 2012 the figure was raised to 22 million TL. We are all aware of the importance of education given by the EC PARTY. Mardin was held for 2,680 classrooms between 2003 and 2012. The construction of the 16-school health clinic in Kızıltepe district and 24-school Anadolu teacher's upper secondary school is under way. To raise a healthy generation, our government transferred $5.3m to Youth Sports in 2012. In 2012, our Ministry of Family and Social Policy earmarked $69m, when we left the Social Welfare Foundation in 2002. A total of $316.5m from 2003-2012 was earmarked as part of the State Waterworks. It has also been approved for the rehabilitation of Zergan Deresi, the bleeding wound of Kızıltepe, the largest district of Mardin. The revislation study and the tender will hopefully lead to a solution to this problem, as well as our power. Members of parliament have reached the end of 60 years of renovation under urban transformation. Mardin's candidacy for UNESCO world cultural heritage is among our goals. The road between 2003 and 2012 was completed, while Mardin had only had a double distance of 28km prior to 2003. So in 80 years, there were only 28 kilometers, and in nine years, there were 10 times as many as 80. Our agricultural country, Mardin, received 21m euros before 2002, with support of $714m from 2002 to 2011. In the vision of 2023, our goal is to make Mardini a city of culture, art and tourism, reach the capacity of 5 million tourists a year, get $5 billion in tourism revenues and $5 billion in export revenues. Mr. President, we wait for all our citizens from east to west, north to south, especially you, to our city of Mardin, which is going to be a city and which is going to be a city of the capital. When this nation believes in it, we believe in it and we succeed. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, with these thoughts and feelings, I salute Mardin's Day of Honor, November 21st, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0005par0051	Thank you, Mr. Akdağ. The third non-responsive statement is from İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz, who asked for a comment on the incident between combat month and Kerbala. Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0006par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, the battle has come again... this month, the month of mourning, the holy war. Three days later, love, the tenth day of the battle. The day Imam Hussein was brutally martyred in Kerbala. Who is Kerbela, the king's martyr? Nour-i flavor Murteza, Al-i Aba Cry, today is the battle of mourning. Mourn is grief, battle is battle today You can read this kind of thank you. As you know, in the bloody day of history, mourning is remembered. In Kerbala, Imam Hussein, representing true religion, Islam, morality, cruelty, dignity, virtue, freedom, justice, honesty, and the false religion, which was present in front of him, for the sake of false religion, for the sake of violence, for the sake of power, for the sake of power, and for the sake of power, for the sake of the prophet's seed, he represented the idea of the false religion, to destroy them and to lead them into the streets of Kûfe and Damascus, and even to carry out their ancestors' severed heads by spears. He was not afraid of God, nor was he ashamed of the prophet. This mourning is the mourning of all Muslims, the valued lawmakers. It is a service to mourn Shii, Sunni, Alevi, Shafii, Hanefi, Jaferi, all of whom have common value, and, thankfully, everyone in our lands, Turkey, has the same care and care for this month, and mourns Imam Hussein. That's our beauty. This is the beauty of the Islamic understanding of this land. Today, while people are slaughtering each other because of sects around us, we have demonstrated an exemplary understanding of our beauty to other countries, and we must present it today. What the imperialists want is especially today's sectal conflicts. I'm concerned in the area, there may be sectarian conflicts in the coming process. It is our duty, in my opinion, to spread this understanding of Turkey, the understanding of the secular republic, respect for each other, respect for the faith, and respect for social peace and peace in the region. Imam Hussein says: "He who drinks a glass of cold water remembers me. My sons who longed for a drop of water, my brother Hussein, who longed for this water, how can I drink cold water? He kept me waiting, warm, drinking like that. Let me tell you a scene from that day. Why is it that for a thousand and four hundred years, this pain has not gone away? Let it be understood better. And the children bare their lips, and asked for water, and dried their lips; and Hazreti Abbas, the brother of Imam Hussein, carried his horse, and filled it with water, and cut off the arm of Jezeith. The water fell, and the water started to flow. It's like my soul was flowing out of my body. He took it with his other hand, and they cut it off. I went and visited the land where those blessed arms had been cut off. He fell off a horse, his face covered in blood, and Imam Hussein came upon him, and asked him to take him to the tent. Don't take me there, I promised my nephews I'd get some water. How can I face them? He said, "He is buried there." In this way, the greatest violence ever seen in history, but we must learn this lesson from this, where false religion, false religion, can even cut off the son of the prophet. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I say we must bring peace, we must bring brotherhood, I salute you all. I'm expecting a little more attention from the General Assembly for this month of combat.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0007par0073	Thank you very much, Mr. Original. I'm going to respond to the brief demands of the 60th article, as always. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0008par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. Although we've asked the Ministry of Energy several times before, unfortunately, we haven't received a satisfactory answer. There are frequent power cuts in Artvin districts, especially after the electricity distribution privatisations, in our inner counties, such as Ardanuk, Shavşat and Yusufeli, and the citizens' refrigerators, electric instruments are often broken. Sadly, our application has failed. In addition, the privatisation company has cut streetlights on night lighting, especially in residential areas, places like the village. In a geography where wildlife has happened, where wildlife has happened, citizens are often victimized in villages, and it is difficult to go from house to house at night. Therefore, the problem caused by the Minister's seizure and the privatisation of energy distribution in many parts of Turkey, as well as the streetlights, which have become a policy in particular, due to power cuts.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0007par0081	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0009par0083	Mr. President, I'd like to share a matter of vital importance to Isparta with our High Council. The most important route linking Central Anatolia to the south has been information that the local name Isparta-Antalya-Derellow road has been given up to later years to make it a double road, instead of which the road to Bucacaca-Antalia has been determined to become a double route, despite all natural challenges and constraints. Mr. Prime Minister has promised a double road to Ispartalı in Government Square. The country's Prime Minister must stand by his promise. By making a call from here, he invites all Isparta lawmakers to take action on this road, expressing our readiness to support any attempt by AKP lawmakers as the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0010par0087	Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0011par0089	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the AKP, are campaigning for membership throughout the country. He gives laptops, wristwatches, and gold to party members who have the most members in this campaign. We wish you all the best. In the work of the Political Party Register Office, the People's Office of Political Parties has already found out that 800 of the members of the AKP have already been members of the CHP and their records have been erased. In Yozgat, the situation is even more severe than that of Bursa. CHP Governor Onur Kaytan has been a member of the AKP without knowledge. We'll call it mercy. We recommend a review of the status of fake member-in-chief AKP promotional monsters. These awakes who defrauded the AKP (AKP) and deceived the public are a rare Indian fabric to fill the gap of the AKP (AKP) MPs who will hang on to the 3rd term border. A cantar reminds us that politics needs a lot of decency, and we salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0010par0091	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0012par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. The Ministry of Justice has launched a discounted arms campaign to boost the personal security of judges and prosecutors. How does a government that cannot ensure the safety of judges and prosecutors ensure the safety of citizens? Doesn't this project mean that the government can't guarantee the safety of our citizens? So should every citizen maintain personal security, or is the security provided by the government sufficient? Two, after the earthquake in our province, the houses delivered to our citizens have not been watered down. Since its water was not connected, it was not moved to the homes that were delivered to the victims of the earthquake. Our citizens continue to be victims, and when will that sacrifice end? Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0013par0097	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0014par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. It is our hope that binds us to life. Our children are the source of our hope, the security of our tomorrows. To leave a world to live in the midst of our children, whose rights are taken away from them, doomed to live in the midst of war, we must stand up against any war in order to prevent suffering from ever happening again. With that understanding, today's seeds, tomorrow's flowers of life, we must try to protect them. Yesterday was Children's Rights Day, and I wanted to remind you. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0015par0103	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0016par0105	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, recently, martyr funerals have been sustained all over our country. I ask God's mercy on their family. Again, our country's social, political, economic problems have become so personal by power that the ministers of the Turkish Grand National Assembly respond personally. They're not talking about the road, they're not talking about the water, they're not talking about the economy, but they're stalling about getting a lot of votes. I, the government, call upon power to be sincere about the social activities of the country, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0017par0109	Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0018par0111	Mr. President, the hunger strikes in prisons ended on his 68th day. I think it's an important gain for mankind. Public opinion finds it hard to believe that the effect of the hunger strike has been reduced to the Koster incident. We expect the government to submit the decisions made during talks between government representatives and Ocalan to public information. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0017par0113	Mr. Dora...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0019par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. In order to meet legitimate demands, the hunger strikes continued for sixty-eight days inside and outside ended with common sense approaches. The end of hunger strikes without loss of life is a gain for our country. No one's ever lost. The winner was all of Turkey with its Kurdish (Kurkish) and Turkish (Turkish). What needs to be done from now on is to reopen the doors of dialogue and negotiations. He says it's time to do politics through solutions, not over deaths, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0020par0118	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0021par0120	Thank you very much. Mr. President, we remember our hearts as a group of nationalist Movement Party members, especially his grandson Hazreti Husseine, who he called "superparem" who was entrusted to the community by the Prophet. And we curse them until the end of the day. Dear MPs, the month of combat was the month of fasting before Ramazan. Muharrem is the month of worship for all Muslims. It's a very valuable common denominator for Muslims. May Almighty God accept the meetings of this month. The face of these things says, in respect of water, to strengthen our nation's unity and integrity, I give all of you my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0022par0123	Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0023par0125	Mr. President, thank you. And I'm celebrating every actor who's ever worked on this hunger strike because they've done something unaccompanied, painless, bloodless, immortal. I wish, I hope, that after today, this dialogue and negotiations will continue, that we will all build our long-standing inner peace in our country. And life has shown us that we have problems that cannot be solved by dialogue and negotiations. So I don't think our government should have a complex in which to contribute to this process, whoever it is, the political actor, should develop dialogue and negotiation. I'd like to thank everyone who's worked hard for this.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0022par0127	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0024par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday (November 20th) was the Day of Children's Rights of the World. We're talking about children's rights to education, health care, housing, protection against physical or psychological exploitation. I mean, unfortunately, almost none of them are in our country. Imagine a country that forgets the children of its own country, a Ministry of Family and Social Policy, whose name is the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, but leaves questions about drug use, crime rates and substance abuse unanswered. Look, even six years ago, the number of children in Turkey had risen to 1 million workers, but there has been no further research for six years. According to Turkish Statistical Agency data, the number of children's brides in Turkey exceeds 181,000. In 2011 alone, about 20,000 families filed a lawsuit to get their sixteen-year-old child married. Again, official records say that between 2008 and 2011, acts have been committed because they were involved in crimes between 14065 children under the age of eleven and 299 thousand children under the age of eighteen. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0025par0133	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are resignations from the commission, I'm having them read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning as Commissioner of the Commission. With all due respect, it's the right thing to do. 20.11.2012 20.11.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning as a member of the Board of Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs, for being the Deputy Director of the Group. I give you your knowledge and your worth. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having it read in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to a survey by the American AP (Associated Press) news agency on the world scale, 35,117 people have been convicted of terrorism since 9/11 2001. Turkey ranked first, with the number of 12,897 prisoners, in this survey, covering 66 countries, comprising 70 per cent of the world's population. In particular, in order to investigate the reasons for the increase in the number of prisoners and convicts over the past years and to produce the necessary solutions, we respectfully propose and provide that the Research Commission be established under Article 98th, Article 104 and 105 of our Constitution should be investigated in all dimensions of the issue. 26.12.2011 [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Bitlis]] [[Bingöl]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 13) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Batman]] [[Mwah.]] [[Van]] [[Van]] The US AP News news agency's investigation into those convicted for terrorism has been conducted in 66 countries covering 70 per cent of the world's population. The basic data, which is based on research, has been obtained using the right of information provided by governments. According to the findings, the total number of those convicted of acts of terrorism from September 2001 to today is 35,117. According to the survey ranking, 12,897 people and Turkey ranked first, while China ranked second with nearly 7,000 people. According to these figures, Turkey and China have more than half the number of prisoners worldwide. Given that the population of China is 1,340 million in 2010 and the total size of Turkey's population is 18 times larger, its terrifying dimensions are more evident in Turkey's view. One out of every 191,500 people in China have been convicted of acts of terrorism, while Turkey has increased to one in 5,740. Its height resulted in the presence of one out of every three people convicted of committing terrorism worldwide in Turkey. It is evident that when the number of people who have been arrested on the charge of terrorism and are still in the process of trial will be higher. The adoption of this picture, and it would be the most common injustice to citizens of Turkey, would result in negative judgments against citizens of Turkey in the world public. It's a scientific preconception where no society is prone to violence. Turkey has been known to have significant increases in the number of convicted and arrested for acts of terrorism in particular recent years. In fact, according to the AP report, the number of convicted terrorists in Turkey increased by 273 in 2005, increasing by 6,345 in 2009 30 times. By the end of 2011, the increase continued without slowing down, and the number increased to about 13,000. Adding to this issue the number of prisoners who are still on trial for alleged acts of terrorism, it will be clear that the problem has reached serious levels. Therefore, it would be wise to investigate and take the necessary measures for the reasons of this world's ill reputation, which citizens of Turkey do not deserve in public. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to prevent the inequality created by the increasing inequality of higher education, to determine what needs to be done in order to ensure that education in higher education is completely broke, we propose that Parliamentary Research be opened under Article 104 of the 98th and 105th Amendments of the Constitution. Neoliberal policies and education and science are quickly depriving themselves of a public service and trying to be left to the harsh competitive conditions of the market. In particular, we see that after 1980, education and knowledge were first commercialized and then metabolized and tried to be completely abandoned and quickly removed from being a public service. We see getting tuition from students, or rather being paid for education, raising tuition every year, promoting bilateral education, open education and remote education, opening summer schools, bringing in private student status, increasing private university numbers every year, increasing certificates in universities like avalanches, etc., and structural changes in the main functions of universities. We are now dealing with a university portrait of science, for science, for society, for the nation, for science, for the market, for the market, for publishing principles for the market. Today, university education and research are viewed as a meta, not a public service, but university autonomy is considered just financial autonomy, there is competition between universities, and in universities, especially in low academic titles and tasks, the form of contractual employment. All these transformations and transformations also affect students who are one of the components of the university. In particular, working families and poor families are the most living negatives. Deep economic inequality among parents also creates inequality among students in the process of university learning. This inequality is a student's income situation, expenses, leisure activities, prospects for the future and so on. Many situations are directly affected. According to a scientific study, 4% of students are said to have no money and 20.8% may not have enough money to continue their studies. In another study, the lack of income has been found to be one of the main problems of university students, 43% of which are living off between $51 and 50 euros and 6% of which their families do not send money. This right must be carried out by the state, based on the basic right to education. Higher education must be accessible to everyone, not to be prevented from training with factors other than the ability and desire of the individual. It is essential to establish a parliamentary research commission in order to determine what should be done in order to prevent inequality created by increasing the inequality of higher education, to determine what should be done so that education can be completely broke in higher education. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The NGO is one of Turkey's most reliable institutions. Over the past two years, the OSD has faced numerous cases, which have faced many mistakes and problems. The preferential forgetfulness of the LYS, the wrong order of achievements, the answer paper that surprised the students at LYS, and the cancellation of the Police Colleges of Professionals exam also undermined confidence in the institution. With the KPSS test, confidence in the institution began to be questioned. His questions were stolen at KPSS. The future of millions, most of whom are between 18 and 25 years old, has been shadowed by a great scandal. One of the most reliable institutions in years, the OSD, has damaged the trust of our citizens and young people by making mistakes over the last year. It is public interest to know what steps are taken to restore that trust. In order to determine whether those responsible for these scandals are being punished or not, whether there is any change in the staffs leading to these scandals, and how the losses of our victim citizens will be resolved, we propose and propose the opening of a parliamentary investigation under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBMM Charter. 21.12.2011 [[İstanbul]] 2) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Sinop]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Gaziantep]] 6) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 7) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] 10) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] 12) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Ankara]] [[Niğde]] 15) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Scholarship]] 17) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Edirne]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Wednesday 21,11,2012 (Today), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Constitution. The meeting of the Grand Assembly of Turkey's Assembly, which is part of the Department of General Assembly and Parliamentary Review (the measures which should be taken by investigating the problems of the white meat sector) was proposed in the assembly's 21st-11.2012-day merger of the General Assembly (Today). The first statement in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is from Mr. Tanju Özcan. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0026par0281	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Members of parliament, I have taken a pledge today to investigate the problems of the white meat sector and to express my opinion on the behalf of my party, as a member of the province of Bolu, which is also the capital of the white meat industry, and welcomes close to 30 per cent of Turkey's production alone. Dear lawmakers, perhaps many of you have no serious activity in producing white meat in the electoral area, but the white meat sector, one of the most important sectors in Turkey, is a sector that directly concerns hundreds of thousands of people and 70 million people. This sector is one of the most important sectors in Turkey, but it has become one of the sectors, which are at least supported by the state for its importance, which almost ignores the problems. Congressmans, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to give you general information on the sector first and then share my assessment of their problems. The sector began professionally in Turkey as a family business in the 1970s. In the 1980s, especially during the Uzal period, significant distances with state support continued at the same rate in the 1990s and 2000s. Precious lawmakers have increased white meat production by 15 per cent in the world over the past decade, while Turkey has had a 54 per cent rate. With these moves, Turkey has taken its place in production as the world's eighth. As of the end of 2011, lawmakers, our production in the white meat sector has reached 1,625 thousand tons. But, of course, this number that we're giving you seems to be very large, but it's still very, very far behind the production levels of countries like the United States, China, Brazil, which are still leading the world in terms of production. Leaders of the sector estimate the production target for 2025 to be 3,370,000 tonnes. Again, members of parliament, Turkey is struggling to be among the key export countries in this sector. As of the end of 2011, about 266,000 tonnes were exported, a significant part of which was made in Iraq, Turki republics, and so on. However, lawmakers are still unable to export to countries of the European Union for simple reasons such as the lack of understanding of the government alone. However, even though the exports have taken very important steps with the dedication of companies, our export numbers are far behind the United States of America, which still owns 34 per cent of the world exports alone, and also has 32 per cent of the world exports alone. You could say that about production, about exports. Winged meat consumption is also increasing rapidly in Turkey, lawmakers. By the end of 2011, white meat consumption per person has reached 19.5kg in Turkey. It is above European Union countries -- an average of 17.5 kilograms in the European Union -- but it is still far behind in countries such as the United States, Canada, Brazil. But we have to say that the average of the world is more or less caught in that sense. Congressmans, I just told you, the front of this sector is very clear. But this sector has some problems. If we can get to the point where this is a solution, then the industry will be one of the sectors that will fly away from here. If you'd like, I'd like to do a three-way assessment of the problems of this sector. One is valuable lawmakers, environmental and planning problems. Now, this sector is a beautiful sector, which brings serious dynamics to our economy, but the biggest problem in this sector is that it's causing pollution. There's a particular issue of fertilizer. It's one thing to store fertilizers from the henhouses, another problem to remove these fertilizers. Members of parliament, hundreds of thousands of tons of chicken manure appear every day from tens of thousands of clusters of Turkey, and since there are no facilities in many of our provinces to process these fertilizers, these fertilizers are poured into empty fields, creek beds, and so on. They cause pollution of the underground waters, low efficiency in the soil, and pollution of the environment. Fertilizers must be burned, so it must be destroyed. However, in doing so, I feel that such facilities should not be built in places where people live immediately, as in Bolu. I share with you that the government must directly support the construction of such facilities. Again, members of lawmakers, it is our understanding that no one should be able to build a henhouse wherever they want to be. So far, people have made chicken coops where they want them, but now they need to be planned and they need to be put into environmental order plans. Now a man who's going to build a new henhouse needs to know where he can build a henhouse, where he can't build a henhouse. And there's a problem with the CED reports. It's changing with the city, and it's becoming a arbitrary practice. In some counties, a CED report is required for specific-sized facilities. It's called, in some provinces it's not necessary. This leads to a very serious double standard. Congressmans, I'd like to address the problems of the small manufacturer in chapter two. In this sector, it's actually the small manufacturers, the small coopers, that are the main loaders. One of their most important problems is the storage of fertilizer waste. There are no areas for these people to store tons of fertilizer coming out of their coops. The government isn't helping them with that, so they're taking them away -- just like I just explained -- to empty their fertilizers in the empty fields. Two: Because of the increase of major investors, they are unable to get jobs from companies in the sector. Look, today, there's 200,000 scales, 300,000 scales, 500,000 scales, and there's 3,000-scale, 5,000-scale, 10,000-scale henhouses, and a company doesn't want to give 15,000-scale chicks to a 200-scale henhouse. I think this problem needs to be solved. Again, the small manufacturer needs a loan to grow its cluster, you know, but the banks tell the small manufacturer that you have to give me $3 in guarantees in exchange for loaning you $1. Again, there's chicken coops made with government loans, but not licensed. The government said, "Do it, brother, I don't want a license from you. But at the point of arrival today, your henhouse is unregistered. Congressmans, there are 600 registered henhouses in my county and 6,000 unregistered henhouses with state support. This problem is still unresolved. Small manufacturers' inputs are constantly increasing, lawmakers, the price is the same. However, because of the energy input, the small manufacturer no longer wants to operate in cities like Bolu, even in winter. The small manufacturer, again, needs to be encouraged about insurance. Again, small manufacturers have no guarantee against powerful companies and no chance to negotiate. I share with you what they need government support for their organization. The third problem is the problems of large-scale companies. One of the most important problems of large-scale companies is the possibility of disease such as bird flu, false plague. You remember, rumors of bird flu a few years ago have significantly broken the industry's back. The state must take serious measures to prevent such diseases. Second, a lack of bilateral agreements with countries with potential exports. Congressmans, we can't export to many countries because we don't have private bilateral agreements, unfortunately, at this point we're in a great deal of trouble. Third, there's little export support. Turkey has $30-40 in total state support in exports, but European Union countries have 325 euros per ton of state support. Now, I'm asking you, how can he export under these circumstances? If we leave support as the Republic of Turkey for 325 euros, if we raise it to $200-250 per ton, this sector will have a serious export explosion, and within a few years it will be exporting several billion dollars. The high cost of raw materials creates a huge handicap in front of the big companies, in front of the manufacturers. We are unable to compete with rival countries in Egypt, soy, soy, soy, and energy inputs. Again, there's a problem with VAT rates. When VAT rates went to the wholesale sale of 11%, the sector was unable to carry the VAT load. There's a serious damage to this business by the government. That's why I say that together with his power and opposition... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I complete, Mr. President? I need half a minute.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0027par0308	We've never done it, but please, we've never done it. I mean, it's been a long way. Thank you very much, thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0026par0310	Friends, we need to investigate the problems of this sector with its power and opposition. I say it's in the interest of Turkey, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0027par0312	Thank you very much, Mr. Ozcan. The first word against the Republican People's Party Group's group proposal is from Mr. Ali Ercoshkun. Here you go, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0028par0315	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group against the group's proposal from the Republican People's Party. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly with respect and love. Dear lawmakers, as you know, Turkey has made a very serious progress in agricultural production, in agricultural areas since 2002. In 2002, according to OECD reports, our country is currently in the world's 11th place and has a total of 23 billion dollars, which is currently in the seventh place and is receiving 62 billion dollars. Although the agricultural field is the same area, but the number of employees has also dropped by about 30 per cent, it has increased approximately three times as much. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Agency also reports this as a success story. When compared with 2002, the credit rates of 69 per cent have dropped to 5 per cent, but on the contrary, the rate of payment has increased to 98.8 per cent while in 62 per cent. The white meat industry, which has a share in agricultural production of around $5 billion and is the size of about 1.5 million people with their families, is getting a significant share. According to U.N. Food and Agriculture's 2011 data, our country ranked 11th in the production of chicken meat and 13th in the production of chicken eggs; we are ranked second in the production of chicken meat and fifth in the production of eggs when we compare the same thing with Europe. According to 2011 data, there are 10,634 businesses in our country and a total of 17,040 henhouses associated with these businesses. It's a white meat industry that's been recorded almost 100 percent, and it's also spread financially, in the way it's produced by the manufacturer model, which spreads all the way to the most remote villages. The Bolu (promised to be a member of parliament) address about 35 per cent of the white meat industry in Turkey. Now, after I give you this information, I'd like to come to the statement from the CHP group proposal. As we say, it's a very important sector, and the group proposal for this very important sector is given some figures. As much as our Dear Congressman friend here is correcting these numbers, I'd like to go with the group proposal. It says here that the production of eggs is around 1 billion tonnes of chicken, a sector of 135,953 tonnes, 3 billion dollars a year, and 35 per cent of Turkey's population are interested in agriculture. What is the current situation? Our production of eggs is 12 billion, 955 million, about 13 times that of the 1 billion proposed by the group. The production of chicken is not 135,953 tons, but 1 million,613,309 tons. In the same way, our annual turnover is worth over $5 billion. 35% of our country's population was dealing with agriculture in 2002, and now it's down to about 25 percent, so when we look at the numbers, we can clearly see how sloppyly the group proposal was, how much background information it was based on. Well, I did a comparison, so what was it in 2002? In 2002, 11 billion 555 million eggs produced by chicken, 696,187 tons, so when would 135 thousand tons have to be numbers? The 1940s must have a number of 45.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0029par0326	What was it in 2010? Take a look at 2010.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0028par0327	So there's always no need to get upset when referring to the 1940s or the 45s because that's where you're staying, where you're standing. I mean, these numbers would only be numbers from 40 or 50 years ago, valuable lawmakers. So, while we're preparing the group proposal, we're going to take some care of the current figures, the current figures, the official figures of the Statistical Agency... that's where I got these numbers.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0030par0328	They gave you the wrong one.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0028par0329	Besides, if we're referring to one third of Turkey as a Bolu MP, we need to know these numbers by heart. There are things we know by heart. What's that? The things we know by heart are the problems of the white meat industry, the industry that has this size. If you were to present the problem of VAT in the white meat industry in your group proposal, it might mean something. Likewise, if you'd told me about the bureaucratic barriers, the problems caused by the slowness, it might have meant something, because these are the problems that are happening actively right now.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0030par0330	Then you tell me!
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0028par0331	So, to express these problems, to see these problems, you have to have the same look, the same feeling, the same excitement, the same look, with the citizen, inside the citizen. If you try to produce something from where you're sitting, unfortunately, at this point you'll be in serious trouble, as you are now. Dear friends, another aspect of the problem is that in the henhouses, there's a large portion of the current henhouses that have a license problem. We've encountered this license problem everywhere we've traveled during the election, and one of the first jobs that we've done is in the Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning General Directorate, but we've held a series of meetings with the contributions of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, the Ministry of Interior, even the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. These meetings included the NGOs in our province, Bolu, in our province, so that we can take a result and do a study that leads to a conclusion, and as a result, their licenses were revoked throughout the Bolu, which were found by the Ministry of Public Works at the time by the current Ministry of Environment and Urbanism inspectors, and various sentences were written and destruction decisions were made. In the first place, we've narrowed these sentences down to a five-to-one rate. The demolition decisions are now put on hold by administrative courts, and there is not a single chicken that has been destroyed in Bolu. Besides, now it's clear you can get a license. So when the coopers leave right now, if they have the current conditions, if they have the pull distances, they have reached a point where they can get a license to other parcels, if they have rape, but there are places where they can never get their license, and we can put that in total, about 3 per cent to 5 per cent. So, in these meetings where our valued CHP MP might not have been able to attend because he didn't have time, but we've done so many times, we've put in serious effort to solve this problem, and we've all done these license studies together.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0031par0335	But you promised. The manufacturers from Bolu are calling me, you promised me at the meeting, Mr. Ali. I'll take care of the permit. You promised.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0028par0336	So, dear friends, what we're getting here is very important. At this point, we're talking about a sector that's probably the most organized, government-sponsored industry. So right now, you can see every corner of Bolu is a construction site because of the low interest, two years of non-payment, seven-year loans that our government has provided. An additional cluster of about 50 per cent of the current henhouses is now in existence, and as a result, these clusters are usually in the village's service. This brings us to the point that material income is being produced, and we see the reflection of this income in Bolu. Dear lawmakers, we don't have to tell you how well the process of the white meat industry works through this integrated system until it comes to our table from egg to egg, but we can also say that it's going to be much better if it's opened up and the current problems are removed. It's quite possible to say that at the point where our country has been found, as well as the position it's come from, it's going to be even better with the decisions made by the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, which have made such a success in particular. I don't have a lot of time left for these decisions, of course, but I would like to reiterate again that there is a 50 per cent interest interest reduction in production and a 25 per cent interest reduction in business loans, especially in a decision dated February 22, 2012, and there are other possibilities involved. On this occasion, I pay my respects to our dear fellow citizens who are watching us on their screens. Once again, I say we are against the motion, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0032par0340	Mr. President, as the Minister spoke, the group proposal prepared by me was sloppyly prepared. He picked on me by saying the numbers were wrong. According to 69...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0033par0341	Just a second, I'll give it to you. Now, today, for the best, I wish to manage this thing properly. But I don't speak for each other -- I speak for you, I speak for all groups -- every time the wind blows from the sky...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0032par0343	No, sir...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0033par0344	I don't mean personally. I will.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0032par0345	I never wanted to say that, and I never got bullied like that.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0033par0346	Yes, Reverend, I promise you! I now address the General Assembly, and I say, "Well, the wind blew out of the sky, and it touched me. Let's not do it for the sake of God." We're going to discuss a very long law, so I'm somehow drawing the attention of the General Assembly. You too, come in, come in, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0032par0350	Mr. President, the highly valued lawmakers, who have just spoken on behalf of the AKP Group, have twisted the numbers, deflecting the official figures from the official institutions, making an unwarranted claim that this group's proposal is being prepared in a sloppy manner. I'm saying I don't accept that. Mr. Hatiple, we are lawmakers in the same district, MPs in the same electoral district, lawmakers in the city where 30 per cent of the white meat sector is produced. But today, I see that in Turkey, a member of the Bolu....who controls 30 per cent of the white meat industry is the biggest obstacle to the white meat industry in Turkey. Unfortunately, I'm sorry to say. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we say, look, let's talk about the problems of the white meat industry, let's talk about it. This industry has a variety of actors, producers, environmental dimensions, corporations. Why do you stand against it? Why don't you want these problems discussed? That's one. Second, I just told you, there are thousands of unregistered henhouses in Bolu, thousands of unregistered henhouses. We're going to solve this problem. A word is an honor. Why do you stand like a mountain in front of those who want to set foot in the solution to this problem? I'm curious about the answer to that. Congressmans, is that possible?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0034par0354	If you're wondering, you should come to work!
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0032par0355	We call it Bolu, the capital of Turkey's white meat production, but let's go out and set up a research commission like this; let's go with its power, its opposition, let's look at the problems; let's go into these henhouses, let's see what people have to say; what do these companies say? What do these people say? Why are you against this proposal? You don't want these problems solved, Reverend, why do you say that? People are watching here. Are the promises made in the election so easily forgotten? And you say it everywhere -- and it's a beautiful thing -- the word is honor, so why don't you do it? I want the answer on behalf of our constituents. I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0035par0358	Work with Mr. Ali in Bolu, and investigate.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0036par0359	We'll take care of it.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0035par0360	Learn the numbers right, come on in, work the field.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0037par0364	In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mr. Lütfü Türkkan MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0038par0367	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group's parliamentary research motion for the problems of white meat producers. Of course, it's wrong to see that the two MPs in question are members of the Bolu. As our friend, speaking as a representative of the Mr. CHP Group, only 30 per cent of the production is in Bolu, but on the other hand, today Balıkesir is taking a very serious distance in the white meat sector of the district of Bandırma, becoming a region where producers and producers-related suppliers are positioned very heavily. It's not about where the manufacturers are positioned, it's about the problems of our own manufacturers, of course. The pressure the Prime Minister put on meat prices on rising prices in Turkey last year also affects white meat producers, of course. This pressure is naturally reflected in white meat producers. Of course, the Prime Minister's statement, in the form of the meat price, without any precautions, with only afflicted sentences, also finished red meat producers in the villages, in the family business. When I put it here about the Minister of Agriculture, if you've brought 1 kilo of milk to 900 cents and 1 kilo of feed to 840 cents, it would be wrong to talk about success in agriculture here. No more than that, ten years ago, you were able to buy 4 kilos of milk, and now it's 1 to 1. So here, you can hide behind the numbers, you can use other statements, but as a result, it's a fact. With 10 pounds of milk, you can only get 1 kilo of food right now. Whatever you do, you can't stop condemning livestock to Angus in Turkey. Hakeza, the problem with white meat producers is the same. The more news that red meat is expensive, the more white meat and white meat are health-related, the more important contributions to human health, the more white meat consumption increases. The question of whether this is real or not may come up later in research, but there is a fact that right now, white meat is a very serious, growing source of protein in Turkey. If you encourage white meat producers and don't encourage bait plants in return, white meat production will be suspended. You don't have a chance of competing with the soybean that the American peasant cost $300-350 if you give it to the white meat producer here for $750. If you absolutely don't subsidies to the bait prices, if you insist that the VAT (VDV) on the oath continue by 8 per cent, there is no point in giving support to your white meat producers. The internal processing document doesn't work in this sector. The reason is that they edited the internal processing document in the form of a grain feeder. The wheat, the wheat, comes to the feed factory, they use it because there's not much difference in either of them when you're using it as specific. They fined millions of dollars to white meat producers in the last few months. Why? You, in turn, brought wheat for bread instead of wheat for the feeder in the processing document, so you committed fraud. They've been punished for millions of dollars. I just found out yesterday that they're going to a new consolidation of these sentences. But some of it was done by the manufacturers. What did he do, finish it? When the tickets came in, the bank loans went backwards. When the punishments came, their reputations on the market were reduced, and these manufacturers were severely damaged. One of the most important things here is the way of exposure, which is sometimes applauded in public, and maybe we like it. A lab goes, buys a product at a store, a grocery store. The analysis is exactly the same, but in no way is this bacteria that comes out, and so on and so forth, it's going straight into the path of exposure, whether the issues that pose a risk to human health are from the product itself, from the mistakes that come from its origin, from the mistakes that come from its preserve, from the mistakes that come out of its packaging, and from the fact that it's never been examined. In this way, the reputation of a prominent white meat producer in Turkey's white meat industry, has been reset. They created a brand and the brand was reset, after a lab study like this. I mean, I know these studies are very accurate, and I think they are, and I insist that they should be done, but this brand or company needs to be exposed after we go a little deeper. Otherwise, the firms you're trying to keep standing will continue to sink one by one. And that would have a negative effect on our competition with the world in the white meat industry -- in a serious sense. I don't know that Mr. Republican People's Party spokeswoman's numbers are in place here. I mean, I didn't look at the motion, but I did listen in your conversations here. The numbers he said in his speeches here -- I'm also the owner of a business that provides raw materials to white meat producers -- are completely correct. So if you just want to make it clear in a political context, you can take it any way you want, but you can't hide the truth. So here, I just, I would like our friend, who speaks for the Justice and Development Party, to really support the research of this sector, which is very seriously affecting people in the region, in terms of income. Because it's not a party matter, it's a matter of people who eat bread from this industry. So you don't have to get up and... get caught up in a complex. If the Republican People's Party gave it, if the Justice and Development Party gave it, it should be the duty of this Assembly to investigate the problems of this sector, it should be the duty of this Assembly to investigate. Especially in the white meat industry, I know the businesses in Bolu. Family businesses are a very important business to employ people in their place. Otherwise, these people come from places to cities, they face unemployment in major cities, they become the source of very serious social problems in major cities. It's not necessary to be in power or opposition to support it, to investigate its problems, when it's the right system to employ them with businesses in their place, it's enough to think clearly about this country. It's just an act of power to reverse the offer from every opposition like a salvo shot. Without reviewing the issue, without looking to whether it's true, if it's just an offer from the opposition, let's just say, let's just say, let's just say, let's just say that with this understanding of governance, you'll only be the AKP who was in power in Turkey for one period, and you can't be able to do it. This past is gone without knowing what's wrong with people. The factoring law, which is to be discussed here today, brings to mind a fact. Businesses in Turkey are slowly losing their ability to get credit. There are economists among us. The credit rating for the firms is going down. So he's not capable of ever getting a loan, whether he means well, whether he's sincere or sincere, the bank balance sheet he's applying for. So it's getting harder and harder for businesses, companies, industrialists to get credit. Including white meat producers. So people are now falling into the hands of loan sharks, so to speak. The law of factoring is the institutional part of the job, but it's the way people go when they don't have the ability to use a bank loan enough. I call this understanding that sacrificed the consumer, the manufacturer, the industrialist, our nation to a loan shark. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0039par0379	The last word against the Republican People's Party Group proposal is from Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici. Here you go, Mr. Rider.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0040par0381	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on behalf of the Republican People's Party's Group proposal. I hereby salute your high council. But before we get to the point, I also said last week that, unfortunately, our border with the Syrian border is really the longest border -- the province of Urfa -- but so far there's been no visible measure. Again, injustices and unlawfulities take place in what we call the province of Suruç (Kobani) - Akchakale and Ceylanpınar. We spoke in Parliament last week. In the Adeta region, especially in our districts with customs doors, the so-called horse tracks and dog tracks complement each other. Our citizens who are living there are in a very difficult situation. In the last week, I would have advised you to live in Ceylanpınar. They're really on the brink of chaos in the last week, and when people are talking on this stand, they can't go out and shop at this hour, they can't open their shops -- I just said it -- because our citizens don't know what's going to happen there, because they don't know what's going to happen. Customs door's open. They don't know who's coming and who's not. At the border, they follow each other, with Kalashnikovs, and Kanas rifles. What kind of border security is that? Is there such a thing as a neighborly relationship? I got a call two days ago from my constituency. A citizen says, "Ya, show us a way, help us." We ask you, please, to address our problems, our troubles in Parliament. We can't go out, we can't buy bread, our children can't go to school. Because Turkey is a country where we are not without problems, especially because of the AKP's power, with our neighbours, whom we talk about zero problems. Here we are, struggling through the handicap created by foreign policy. I mentioned it the other day. That's right, we've lived with zero problems for a time, but in what political context have we experienced this zero problem? We are enemies with Syria, we are enemies with Iraq, we are enemies with Iran, we are enemies with Greece, we are enemies with Bulgaria. So, are these policies true? It's wrong for me. With the wrong policies, we can't take this country any further. This country is drifting into the swamp with these mistakes. The Israeli Palestinian problem is really important, it's a human drama. What the Prime Minister said is true, and we agree in the name of humanity. But in your country, when people don't live in peace, what country will you discipline? In your country, when dozens of people die in conflict every day, what country will you discipline, what country do you have the chance to advise? First design your own country, observe the rights and freedoms of your own country, then review your foreign policy. Yes, I find it important, and I see his meeting in Egypt as important, and we consider it important for mankind. The Palestinian people have been crying blood for decades. In Palestine, Gaza, in particular, mankind is over. We care about it, we support it, but first go back and look at your own garden. What about your own garden? That's why I'm saying that as soon as possible, we're going to create new policies at the point of our foreign policy in Turkey, design new policies, build the country's future with it, but unfortunately, that's where we're staying. So, again, I'd like to ask Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary of Foreign Affairs, as soon as possible, we have three counties in particular that can't be lived on the Urban border line. Where will you go on this winter's day? Three months, three and a half months ago, when you were stealing battle tampons, could you show them the places you built in the name of humanity? You can't. You're setting up camps, you're starting migrations. It's true, migrations have begun, but to your own citizen... where will the citizens of this country go, dedicated their lives, taxes, everything in this country? On this winter's day, sir, take care of yourself. Is there such a thing to say? The troops are coming out to the villages, sir, these villages will be evacuated. If it's a risk, show me a place where I can live, where I can live, with my pets, my kids, my kids who go to school. No, I can't. Go, take refuge with your relatives. Is such logic possible? For him, I wish to review this foreign policy immediately. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0041par0392	Thank you, Mr. Rider.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0042par0393	Sir, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit01spe0041par0394	I'll call. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes, and I will look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit02spe0041par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly. The vote of the Republican People's Party group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... there is enough of a decision, there is not enough. Members of parliament, 17 members of the Egyptian Parliament's Committee for Human Rights Development and Local Administrations are visiting our Parliament. We welcome them and wish them all the best. [[Applause]] We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Mr. Iron Steel has been nominated for a membership in the Peace and Democracy Party Group from the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission, and I submit to your votes that those who accept... are accepted. Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan has been nominated for a membership in the Peace and Democracy Party Group which has been ejaculated from the Motion Commission, and I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal questions, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. Mr. Ayşe Nurkaplı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın Ünyaman, who is ranked in the 1st rank of Justice and Development Party Deputy Chairs, Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahçakılı, Kayseri MP Mr. Kareseri MP, Mr. Karesin Canikli, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mahir Ünal and Adıyayaman MP Mr. Ahmet Aydın, we will continue to talk on the amendments of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Institution Proposal Proposal. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the negotiations of the Plan and Budget Commission Report, with the 3rd ranked Financial Rentals, Factoring and Financial Companies Act. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Talks were completed on the first chapter of the bill, which was considered to be the main law in Article 91 of the 25th Amendment, dated 15/11/2012. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in this section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three proposals in Article 1. I'll have them read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Common 239 Orders of Financial Rentals, Factoring, and Finance Corporations Act is 1. Article 1. We propose and supply that the statement of the relationship in his joke be changed in the form of atait. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 239 Orders Numbered Bill 1. The purpose of this Law shall be changed in accordance with Banking Law No. 5411, after its statement. (x) 239 S. The Numbered Basmaz was added to the 1/11/2012 15th Union Charter. I'll have this motion read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Financing Companies Bill be removed from the draft text. Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit02spe0043par0042	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit02spe0041par0043	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit02spe0044par0044	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit02spe0041par0045	Mr. Günal, Antalya MP.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit02spe0045par0046	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, this bill is actually a technical bill. We also fixed some of his shortcomings on the subcommittee and the Plan and Budget Commission. There are issues about certain substances that are not only ours, but also the government's institutions that are uncompromising. Now, what we're saying here is, come, let's do it if there are flaws. It's called OK. We're looking at it, and there's no initiative. We went through the same thing in the EXPO Law, the same thing in the other one. They say, "Okay." Then they say, "Sir, nothing came from you, we didn't look." Dear friends, these are the things to do. Our concerned commissioner friends are here, the concerned bureaucrats are here, they say: these, these, we agreed, we couldn't stay in them. In these matters, let's make a motion for them, and take them away. So now, then, our friends -- you don't know about the commission -- you're not listening right now, most of you are talking on the phone -- they say the opposition is blocking it. What's blocking it? So you've heard what it's got in the way? When do you see what's in the background of those arguments? You don't know we're talking upstairs, you don't know we're talking to the Minister about it, and then they get up and they say: There's no obstruction. There's a way to break the law. If there is, there will be transactions done here. But every time, sir, we've already done it. Don't do anything, come, don't talk here, pick it up. You don't have to tell me anyway. We have a majority of fingers. There's no way to get them out. So first... we always said: "The head who wears the crown is wise. " It's the work of the ruling party, the Minister and the group's deputy. They should come to us and say, "Let's do this over here. So, we're discussing an important bill here. I told you in general that he's had a crisis, we're trying to do what's left of the past without renovating, we're resolving his technical flaws, but unfortunately, that's the result. So the Minister said the other day, OK, let's see if there's anything. But now we've started the law, there's nothing there yet. But now that the motions have come, we'll see them with you -- they've just arrived, along with our proposals -- we'll see what's in it, and we'll see if there are any reasonable ones. If there is, we will support it, or we will continue to criticize it. For him, our criticism here is that since this clause is entirely relevant to the generality of the law, of course, when it's removed in this form, it's already a substance. But I've been promised to criticize a style here. First, let's say in Article 1 that if there's something to come -- Mr. Secretary and Mr. bureaucrats here -- take a break after this and tell us if they have any suggestions. If there are reasonable ones, if there are things that need to be done, let us be supportive. We always say that the National Movement Party has a constructive, guiding, compromised sense of opposition. If there's an arrangement that needs to be done -- and we have some suggestions -- if we meet on the same page, we'll meet, or we'll keep saying what you're missing. Therefore, I invite you to be constructive in that sense, so that the arrangements that are in the best interest of the nation may come to an immediate conclusion. We'll support what's coming in that frame. We have no opposition to the generality of the law -- as I mentioned in the beginning -- but we expect that their shortcomings will be met and that the need to edit will be removed again and again after three days, so that we can spend less time and continue to live here more effectively. So I felt the need to remind you once again. Hopefully, these changes will be made quickly and the bill will be passed, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit02spe0046par0059	Thank you, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit02spe0047par0060	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit02spe0046par0061	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0046par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The 1st Article of the Law Bill 239 was not enough to vote on the motion of Antalya MP Mehmet Günal and his friends. Now, I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. We will continue negotiations with Bill 239. The government is here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 239 Orders Numbered Bill 1. The purpose of this Law shall be changed in accordance with Banking Law No. 5411, after its statement. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0048par0012	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0046par0013	Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0049par0014	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0046par0015	Who will speak, Mr. Corporate?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0050par0016	Motive...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0046par0017	I'm having it read. Law 5411 is one of the most important legal grounds for our country's financial system. Leasing, factoring and financing companies, which have recently begun to flourish in our country, operate by this law. The definition that financial rental companies are bank-like companies that use loans is only in the Banking Law, so the clause must be changed as it is upstairs. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Common 239 Orders of Financial Rentals, Factoring, and Finance Corporations Act is 1. Article 1. We propose and supply that the statement of the relationship in his joke be changed in the form of atait. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0051par0026	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0046par0027	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0052par0028	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0046par0029	Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0053par0032	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, this law must be passed. This law is needed for Turkey, for the SMEs, for the small industrialists, and especially for bringing discipline to the sector. We've put a lot of work into this law, a lot of work into the Plan Budget Commission, and we've come to something in common. But for some reason, we actually had a consensus on Thursday that the law would come out and that it would come out as soon as possible. We were going to fit in until the end, but I think the AKP Group is on the move. We're ready to withdraw all our motions because why? We believe that this law, this law for the industry, this law for the market, this law for the COBI, this law for the tradesman, must be passed at once. But, Mr. Secretary, did the AKP Group give up on a memorandum of understanding? We're men of our word, but when we think of a common point, a piece of common ground, then we have to say it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm telling you again, first of all, it has to come out, but come on, there's a principle agreement that we made on Thursday. I think the AKP Group has given up on this agreement. Mr. Secretary, I think he had it in him, because I think Mr. Secretary has given up, but we, the CHP Group, say that we are ready for this law to come out first, ready for any sacrifice, because the tradesman is needed for the market. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0054par0036	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three proposals in Article 2. I will have them read and processed in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 239 Sequential Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Act 2. Article 1. We offer and propose that the phrase "dry" in his joke be changed to "made." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 239 Rows of Numbered Law Bill 2. We propose and propose that the phrase "2 years" in the 5th joke of the article be changed to "3 years." I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2nd of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill. We submit and propose that we add the word "land vehicles" to section 5 of the clause. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0055par0048	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0054par0049	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0056par0050	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0054par0051	Antalya MP...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0057par0052	No, sir, let the motive be read.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0054par0053	I'm having it read. While air and sea transports are envisioned to be considered as subsidiaries, the same right is a double standard for land transport vehicles. Hence, "the land vehicles must also be added. " I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 239 Rows of Numbered Law Bill 2. We propose and propose that the phrase "2 years" in the 5th joke of the article be changed to "3 years." İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0058par0062	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0054par0063	Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0059par0064	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0060par0065	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0054par0066	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to limit transactions that will be considered a financial rental activity through change. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 239 Sequential Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Act 2. Article 1. We offer and propose that the phrase "dry" in his joke be changed into" established. " Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0061par0074	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0054par0075	Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0062par0076	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0063par0077	Mr. Sesame will speak.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0054par0078	Mr. Sesame, please.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0064par0079	Mr. President, I've been promised to explain our party's views on the motion we've made regarding the current bill. I salute you all. As this law is discussed, I think it's useful to briefly consider the circumstances we are in, to assess the financial sector's situation, the market's financial needs, what the market is struggling with in access to finance, and to reevaluate the economic conditions that we are in on these issues. Dear friends, factoring and other articles related to this law clearly include a legal arrangement to respond to a need in the market. Our basic view of this legal arrangement as a party is that this law is a need for Turkey. This is especially when you look at times when the financial sector is very difficult. We discussed a law here, the Czech Law, the removal of the prison sentence in the check. Then I'd like to share with you once again what I say from this bench. As someone from the inside of the market, when you remove the sanction on the check, the check is not a means of payment, it is not a means of trust, and in the end, businesses and individuals who suffer from financial difficulties in the market lose the opportunity to pay for the lack of funds they receive using cheques. That's why I suggested insurance for the check. That motion, unfortunately, wasn't taken very seriously for that day, and it was said that if we remove the prison sentence over the check, we will build a more just system with the principle of economic crime, and the check system will work. But it didn't seem to work. As we come to this point, everyone, especially the top institutions of the business world, the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey, says that after removing the fine, trust in the market has disappeared, and the financial sector has fallen into serious trouble; the real sector is in distress in this sense. Well, when we told him, all the ministers and a few friends from the Justice and Development Party who were here said: "No, brother, this job is true." On that day, thank you, Congresswoman of Kütahya, our friend from the Justice and Development Party supported this. Friends don't compromise with the facts of work and life, just bureaucratically, making laws on desks. As with the Czech Law, there are some practices in which the market needs and needs are needed to make legal arrangements. In order to make those legal arrangements, it takes a truly objective approach beyond the political approach to the opinions and suggestions of people coming from within the market. My party made a motion, and everything is true in this regard. It is not true to say. As I finish here -- because my time has been limited -- I say we want this law to come out as the Republican People's Party Group. In agreements with the Minister and the groups, we told him that we would give him all the support we can to get this law out of the way fast. And from this very moment forward, I remind you once again to withdraw our motions and support this law in order for the market to rise quickly and meet its needs, and I salute your peace.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0065par0086	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two proposals in Article 3 of this, which I will have read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 239 rows of the Numbered Bill 3. We propose and propose that "the declaration of the 1st article [of the 1st Amendment] be changed in the form of the "proposal of the company's upper management. " I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 3rd article of the current Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be removed from the draft text. Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0066par0096	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0065par0097	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0067par0098	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0065par0099	Mr Mehmet Günal, MP of Antalya. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0068par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. I've just said something in Article 1, so I've seen it again in the motion that you just voted I was right. Friends, the Minister is here, looking. We also have opposition, Mr. Minister, we have spoken, and we have discussed it upstairs. We've foreseen that sea and air transports be judged as subsidists. We said there are many land vehicles in Turkey. It's in item 22. Now, I'm saying that the motion you've just rejected, the motion you've voted for, is voted on without hearing the right motions for the addition of the land vehicles to the part, which you've just voted on, you say, we don't agree. Now, if you agree to this motion, we're going to have to renegotiate and go back to two. I mean, that's what I'm trying to say, guys, that's what I'm trying to say. We're correcting the definition of a substance we might be talking about upstairs. So you give it to the marine vehicles, you give it to the aircraft, there's a financial lease on the roads, and we put it on them to give them the same right, and the reason was two lines, short. So that's what I'm trying to tell you. Let's see, we're not looking at what he's bringing, we're canceling right now. If you accept it now or say yes to our motion in 22/, I'm afraid you're going to have to go back to Article 2 and renegotiate and agree to this proposal, or you're going to make a new motion. So let's take a look and see if there's any reasonable ones. I remind you again, and if we're going to renegotiate by negotiating the monopoly, if we're going to rectify the issues at 22, which needs to be corrected, when we're giving it to one of the sectors, and most of all, it's land transport. So the number in the air is clear. Other than the airlines, do we have the number of ships, the number of vehicles? Obviously. So what's the most there is land transport, where he's most heavily used. And if we don't give them those rights, it's not fair. I just wanted to remind you again that the road is near. If you look carefully at the motions coming in, maybe you'll agree with them. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0069par0111	Thank you, Mr. Günal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 339 Orders of the Numbered Bill. We propose and propose that "the declaration of the 1st article [of the 1st Article] be changed in the form of the "proposal of the company's upper management. " İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0070par0118	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0069par0119	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0071par0120	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0069par0121	I'm having it read. The exchange aims to enable branches to benefit from more experienced upper structures. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We have a motion in Article 4 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Financing Companies Bill be removed from the draft text. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0072par0130	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0069par0131	Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0073par0132	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0069par0133	I'm having it read. It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Therefore, those who will receive a warrant under the Highway Transport Act should be considered to be the property of the means they will receive by means of financial rental. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring are subject to serious consideration. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. The institutional structure will be incomplete in this first phase, but it will not be completed until it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies, which are said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of having the upper boards assembled under one roof in the form of the Financial Market Oversight. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be put together under one roof so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and operated more effectively. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people who practice tenders to gain the right to start a direct financial rental company and to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0074par0139	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit03spe0069par0140	I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0069par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the 12th amendment of the Law Bill, 239 rows. Now, I'm going to put the item back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is enough of a decision, there is enough. We will continue negotiations with Bill 239. The government is here. There are two motions on Article 13 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 13 of the 239 Numbered Legislature. We propose and supply to change the terms of the article's 3rd article to ▪5 years (four years). I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 13 of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Financing Companies Bill be removed from the draft text. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0075par0014	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0069par0015	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0076par0016	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0077par0017	Necati Özensoy...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0069par0018	Mr. Necati Özensoy of the Fellowship.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0078par0019	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs regarding our motion. I salute you all. The law we're talking about is the law that regulates financial markets, which, along with developments, aims to address certain shortcomings, so markets have better financial resources, access to more reliable financial resources. Of course, rather than this law -- Mr. Secretary here -- I'd like to make some reminders of some of the questions, some of the developments, about the agricultural bank, which is the most important part of these financial markets, the farmer's bank, the People's Bank, which is the business bank. The purpose of the People's Bank is to support the tradesman. For years, this bank has been able to ensure that the tradesman's loan is more secure, more secure, and so on. The Agriculture Bank is also our bank, which is built to support our farmer, especially to build our farmer's finances. Its logo is a Virgo, a wheat spike, and its name is an agricultural bank that has supported our farmer, our farmer for many years. Now, I would like to ask Mr. Minister here: the last time we checked at the CIT Commission, the head of the Agriculture Bank, he said that the logo, which is the head of the Agriculture Bank, would also be changed by the name of the Bank of Zaraat. The purpose of this is that banking should now have a better logo or a better name, but in its ultimate goal -- as I understand it -- it's clear that the Agriculture Bank has now reached a certain portfolio, and the purpose of privatisation lies with it. The Bank of Agriculture, as I've put it, is a bank where the farmer uses loans with confidence, certain subsidies. If this Agriculture Bank is transferred to the private sector tomorrows or somehow sold to foreigners again, what do you intend to replace the Agriculture Bank? At the point of handing over these portfolios to farmers who have been using their loans safely from the Bank of Agriculture until now, at the point of handing over these portfolios, which are still thousands, millions of acres of mortgages, as well as disasters that have been inflicted on farmers over the years, and so on and so on, with some economic difficulties, because this bank is the bank of the state, because it's the bank's bank's bank -- with a decision, by a general decree, and how to forgive their interest -- did we develop a measure, Mr. President, in this sense, when this bank is being put in the hands of the private sector, while the mortgages are in the hands of this particular sector, as well as well as these farmers are in the future, when they are in the hands of this particular sector? Honestly, I'm curious about that. I know that the farmer isn't very comfortable in terms of economic use of credit. While the financial markets are being discussed here, we have more pressing issues, but the government has taken the wrong steps on this issue.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0079par0026	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 13 of the 239 Numbered Legislature. We propose and supply to change the terms of the article's three-year statement into four-year-olds. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0080par0033	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0079par0034	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0081par0035	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0082par0036	Read the reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0079par0037	I'm having it read. The change aims to stretch the condition of the vice president. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 14 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 14th article of the current Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be removed from the draft text. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0083par0046	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0079par0047	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0084par0048	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0079par0049	Mr. Reshad. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0085par0052	Mr. President, members of the law, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 14 of the law under discussion. I salute the High Council. This bill, of course, is a law that has come to the agenda of legislation in the past period, which has been brought in without any updates, without the opinions of the parties being taken, and is also tried to be legalized. I'm afraid that, in the coming years, the law will be brought back into this bag of laws and some parts will be replaced. Of course, the Justice and Development Party ruling recently brings in all kinds of laws, depending on its numerical majority, and because of its own numerical majority, these laws have been passed in all kinds of pressures and violence, which, of course, is not the right approach. Thus, there must be a full discussion of the laws, or a single discussion of the substances, and a hearing of the parties. Unfortunately, none of this is being done. Of course, no one in particular in our country can say that the economy is good, and that these people, with their farmer, with their workers, with their tradesmen, live in a comfortable environment. Today, the farmer has become unprovoked, the pensioner is in a very difficult position, the worker is in a very difficult situation. In particular, work in banks, executive offices, or situations there, paintings hurt people's hearts, they hurt people's hearts. It is this: Every day, we see our farmers go to the front of the executive offices because of their debt to farm loans, bank loans, or livestock, and in the executive offices, all their possessions and property have been impounded in the executive office. Among other things, officers have unfortunately become card-depositors. With the officers, I'm afraid the policy that our retired people have been waiting for over the years hasn't come out, and with it, our retired people are trying to survive in difficult circumstances. We also see that some of our pensioners don't have any money when it comes to the beginning of the month. Of course, there's a particular cut of them, which we have to say. In many parts of Asia Minor, our shopkeeper brothers are wondering whether I should close my business or not? In many cities of Asia Minor, we see this painting, the black picture. There is a large number of migrations in the inner Anatolian region, particularly in Tokat, Amasya, Çorum, Yozgat, and the region up to the East Anatolian region, including us. When the reasons for this migration are investigated, especially when our farmers' brothers can't produce, when there's no money in farmers and peasants, there's no money in the trade. Unfortunately, our tradesmen have also faced a situation of shutting down their own businesses. Look, let's get this hypermarket law that we've been saying over the years, and let's get this supermarket law out, and let's get these hypermarket laws out, so that our shopkeepers can at least take a breath. But interestingly enough, we can't explain this hypermarket law to the government, and so what does the government do? And it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Sure, what does it do when it opens? With him, look, opening up a supermarket branch means that 50-60 tradesmen in that area disappear. A lot of people have to close down their store from the grocery store to the grocery store. Our grocery store, which we've been telling you about, is now, unfortunately, completely destroyed. We don't have a grocery store, we don't have a grocery store, so the tradesmen are closed. Come on, let's not do this. Let's take out the law on supermarkets as well as these laws that we've made. Mr. Secretary, come and give me their instructions. Let's at least protect this section against those big capital companies, against the trusts, against the monopoly, and let the people in that part breathe a little. When I open my shop tomorrow on my way home, what will I find? Should I shut them down? We think they should get rid of their position. But it's interesting that this word has been said for years, and it's just in the words. I hope, I hope, you'll hear these words. Otherwise, when you don't, in the next period of time, I'm afraid those people you don't hear will teach you the lesson you need. This is one of the words of the motion that we've made, so it's important to consider the fundamental, real facts and reality of our nation as well as the coming of the palas pandiras. If people can't get along, if poverty exists, then the government must be responsible and must do whatever has to be done about it. Therefore, I would like the law of hypermarkets and supermarkets to be brought to the attention of the law on the protection of the tradesman, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0086par0064	Thank you, Mr. Right. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 15 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 15th article of the current Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be removed from the draft text. Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0087par0071	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0086par0072	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0088par0073	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0086par0074	Mr. Vural, who will speak?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0089par0075	Motive...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0086par0076	I'm having it read. It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Therefore, those who will receive a warrant under the Highway Transport Act should be considered to be the property of the means they will receive by means of financial rental. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring are subject to serious consideration. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. The institutional structure will be incomplete in this first phase, but it will not be completed until it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies, which are said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of having the upper boards assembled under one roof in the form of the Financial Market Oversight. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be put together under one roof so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and operated more effectively. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people who practice tenders to gain the right to start a direct financial rental company and to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 16 that I read and process in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 16 of the 239 Numbered Legislature. We propose and propose that the clause of "corporates" be changed to "financial rental companies." I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 16th amendment of the current Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Cemalettin Simsek Necati Özensoy D. Ali Torlak Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0090par0095	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0086par0096	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0091par0097	No, we don't.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0092par0098	Motive...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0086par0099	I'm reading the reason: It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Therefore, those who will receive a warrant under the Highway Transport Act should be considered to be the property of the means they will receive by means of financial rental. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring are subject to serious consideration. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. This will appear to be sufficient in the first phase, but the institutional structure will be incomplete before it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of having the upper boards assembled under one roof in the form of the Financial Market Oversight. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be put together under one roof so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and operated more effectively. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people who practice tenders to gain the right to start a direct financial rental company and to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0093par0105	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0086par0106	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Since friends don't get along, we'll vote with the electronics. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. Now, I'm going to read the other motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 16 of the 239 Numbered Legislature. We propose and supply to change the terms of the terms of the terms of the corporations to the terms of the financial rental companies. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0094par0117	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0086par0118	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Dora...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0095par0121	Motive...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0086par0122	I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to clarify the target area of the law. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 17 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 17th article of the current Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be removed from the draft text. Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0096par0131	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0086par0132	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Vural, what should I do?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0097par0135	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0086par0136	I'm reading the reason: It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Therefore, those who will receive a warrant under the Highway Transport Act should be considered to be the property of the means they will receive by means of financial rental. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring are subject to serious consideration. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. The institutional structure will be incomplete in this first phase, but it will not be completed until it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies, which are said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of having the upper boards assembled under one roof in the form of the Financial Market Oversight. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be put together under one roof so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and operated more effectively. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people to gain a direct right to start a financial rental company and to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 18 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 18 of the current Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Necati Özensoy D. Ali Torlak Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0098par0152	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0086par0153	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0099par0155	Motive...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0086par0156	I'm reading the reason: It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Therefore, those who will receive a warrant under the Highway Transport Act should be considered to be the property of the means they will receive by means of financial rental. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring are subject to serious consideration. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. The institutional structure will be incomplete in this first phase, but it will not be completed until it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies, which are said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of meeting the base boards under one roof in the form of the Supreme Council of Financial Markets. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be formed under one divide, so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and more active activities. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people who practice tenders to gain the right to start a direct financial rental company and to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 19 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask that the 19th article of the current Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Act be removed from the draft text. Is the commission in?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0100par0168	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0086par0169	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Vural, should I have the motive read?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0101par0172	Motive, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0086par0173	I'm having it read. It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Therefore, those who will receive a warrant under the Highway Transport Act should be considered to be the property of the means they will receive by means of financial rental. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring are subject to serious consideration. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. The institutional structure will be incomplete in this first phase, but it will not be completed until it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies, which are said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of having the upper boards assembled under one roof in the form of the Financial Market Oversight. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be put together under one roof so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and operated more effectively. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people who practice tenders to gain the right to start a direct financial rental company and to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 20, I'll read it and process it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 20th article of the current Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be removed from the draft text. Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0102par0185	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0086par0186	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Should I have Mr. Vural read it?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0103par0189	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0086par0190	I'm reading the reason: It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Therefore, those who will receive a warrant under the Highway Transport Act should be considered to be the property of the means they will receive by means of financial rental. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring are subject to serious consideration. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. The institutional structure will be incomplete in this first phase, but it will not be completed until it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies, which are said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of having the upper boards assembled under one roof in the form of the Financial Market Oversight. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be put together under one roof so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and operated more effectively. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people who practice tenders to gain the right to start a direct financial rental company and to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 21 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 21st article of the current Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Necati Özensoy D. Ali Torlak Do you agree with the commission motion?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0104par0206	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0086par0207	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0105par0208	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0086par0209	You want me to read the motive?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0106par0210	Motive.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit04spe0086par0211	I'm reading the reason: It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Therefore, those who will receive a warrant under the Highway Transport Act should be considered to be the property of the means they will receive by means of financial rental. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring are subject to serious consideration. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. While it may seem sufficient in this first phase, the institutional structure will remain incomplete until it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of having the upper boards assembled under one roof in the form of the Financial Market Oversight. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be put together under one roof so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and operated more effectively. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people who practice tenders to gain the right to start a direct financial rental company and to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0086par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 239. Commission? Here. Government? Here. In Article 22 there are two motions, which I shall have read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 6 of Article 22 of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Companies Act be changed in the following way. (6) Under Article 940 of Turkish Trade Law No. 6102, dated 13/1/2011, the tenant is considered as the ship's owner. I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to Article 22 of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Financial Companies Charter 22 after the 7th joke and change its notice in the form of the written arrangement of the letter. (8) As part of Article 5 of Highway Transport Law 4925, a warrant will be issued under Article 5 and it will be assessed as the financial rental of the vehicles they have acquired. Is the commission in?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0107par0015	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0086par0016	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0108par0017	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0086par0018	Mr. Mehmet Günal, MP of Antalya.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0109par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. My dear friends, there was something I said when we went to the materials, which I said in the 22nd article -- I said -- that it should be defined as well. Unfortunately, the government also opposed this to come out in this way. Actually, it was called OK. It was called... They would have been given a warrant in the Law on Highway Transport concerning these land transports, and they wanted that same right. In the matter, if you'll notice, this was recognized in the added section by both airlines and shipping vehicles. Now, when you recognize this, it's about not knowing it on land roads, and the things that go on the most -- which are the transports of low-income businesses or families -- and there's injustice there. We submitted this motion at their request. I would like to request that this motion, as the National Movement Party, be filed once again that the government and the Commission have not participated. On the other hand, again, there are demands from the Notary Corps regarding the contracts. Because the contract that's being made here will only be tied to the written condition, notarized, and will cause some problems tomorrow. Because the existing Law 3226, which we are now changing, had a rule that the contract would be made in the form of notarized notarized. When we see that it's only enough to be written right now, it's clear here that it can cause some controversy and problems in the future. Because there's always a renter and a leaser in the lease agreement here. And when there's some conflict between them, there's got to be evidence. What are the notaries doing here? The reason they're documenting the process is because when we're doing a procedure, the reason we're going to the notary is because when something happens, we go and have a document. Unfortunately, under this arrangement, the tenant may be a corporate person, and he may be a real person, but when you go to the notary, let's say you're going on behalf of the notary, if you don't have the power of attorney, the notary will look at him. So, if we do it this way, the notary's notarized bond is an official document, but the written contract will be in the form of a common bond. And when a little disagreement arises, when he goes to court, there will be some disagreements, arguments, discrepancies. And when we look at the note that our friends sent us, it's clear that there's not a lot of money to be paid to the notary, and if it's the cost, it's not going to cost us a lot to go to the notary when it's this big. Thus, we have provided a process that will remove the quality of evidence and eliminate the quality of evidence in the event that there is a discrepancy tomorrow. In this frame, it's an arrangement that can be made so that it doesn't lose its official document property, but unfortunately, our friends here don't accept it either. What's the other thing: you're saying we're going to reform the judiciary, the packages are coming. It's something that will increase the workload of the judiciary, my friends. There'll be trouble here when there's conflict. If there's a notary document, we'll take it as evidence, so we'll have a chance to settle some issues before we go to court. But if we don't accept it that way, and as a written document, if we accept the contract as a document, we'll be facing a number of challenges in court tomorrow for their resolution and detection cases, and we'll have increased the workload of the judiciary. When we're trying to reform, we're trying to fix things, we're breaking them from the other side. So, once again, for the land transports, if we have to be fair, we have to give them that right as members of a party called justice. In other ways, we've already made a motion to provide them with documents, information, fees, land transport, so that at least we can get justice here. I hope you'll support the motion, hope you'll come back wrong, pay my respects again.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0110par0031	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0111par0032	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0110par0033	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who agree... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the motion is rejected. There's another motion, I'm having it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 6 of Article 22 of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Companies Act be changed in the following way. Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı (Istanbul) and his friends (6) Under Article 940 of Turkish Trade Law No. 6102, dated 13/1/2011, the tenant is considered as the ship's owner. Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0112par0041	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0110par0042	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0113par0043	We agree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0114par0044	Motive...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0110par0045	Read the reason. Reason: Since the bill is in effect during the commission's work, Turkish Trade Law No. 6762, it is necessary to update it under Turkish Trade Act 6102.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0115par0047	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0110par0048	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... the decision is enough, the decision is accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 23 that I read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 23rd article of the current Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be removed from the draft text. Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0116par0055	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0110par0056	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0117par0057	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0118par0058	Motive...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0110par0059	I'm having it read. It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Therefore, those who will receive a warrant under the Highway Transport Act should be considered to be the property of the means they will receive by means of financial rental. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring have issues that need to be seriously evaluated. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. While it may seem sufficient in this first phase, the institutional structure will remain incomplete until it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of having the upper boards assembled under one roof in the form of the Financial Market Oversight. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be put together under one roof so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and operated more effectively. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people who practice tenders to gain the right to start a direct financial rental company and to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 24 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 24th article of the current Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be removed from the draft text. Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0119par0071	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0110par0072	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0120par0073	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0121par0074	Motive...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0110par0075	I'm having it read. It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring have issues that need to be seriously evaluated. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. While it may seem sufficient in this first phase, the institutional structure will remain incomplete until it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of having the upper boards assembled under one roof in the form of the Financial Market Oversight. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be put together under one roof so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and operated more effectively. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people who practice tenders to gain the right to start a direct financial rental company and to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions in the 25th article, which I read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article (1) of Article 25 of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be changed as follows. (1) The Article 123, 125 and 126 of the Turkish Law of Debts, dated 11/1/2011 and 6098, if the rentalr does not make a contract with the manufacturer or the seller of the property on time, or is not given to the tenant for other reasons due to the failure and negligence of the tenant. I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 25th article of the current Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be removed from the draft text. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0122par0091	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0110par0092	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0123par0093	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0124par0094	Motive...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0110par0095	I'm reading the reason: It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Therefore, those who will receive a warrant under the Highway Transport Act should be considered to be the property of the means they will receive by means of financial rental. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring are subject to serious consideration. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. The institutional structure will be incomplete in this first phase, but it will not be completed until it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies, which are said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of having the upper boards assembled under one roof in the form of the Financial Market Oversight. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be put together under one roof so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and operated more effectively. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people who practice tenders to gain the right to start a direct financial rental company and to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article (1) of Article 25 of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be changed as follows. (1) The Article 123, 125 and 126 of the Turkish Law of Debts, dated 11/1/2011 and 6098, if the rentalr does not make a contract with the manufacturer or the seller of the property on time, or is not given to the tenant for other reasons due to the failure and negligence of the tenant. Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0125par0108	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0110par0109	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0126par0110	We agree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0110par0111	I'm having it read. Since the Bill of Law is in effect during the commission's work, the Law on Debts No. 818 must be updated as part of Article 6098 under the Turkish Law on Debts. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 26 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 26 of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill from the draft text. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0127par0120	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0110par0121	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0128par0122	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0129par0123	Motive...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0110par0124	I'm having it read. It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Therefore, those who will receive a warrant under the Highway Transport Act should be considered to be the property of the means they will receive by means of financial rental. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring have issues that need to be seriously evaluated. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. While it may seem sufficient in this first phase, the institutional structure will remain incomplete until it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. BDDK, TMSF, the establishment of a Supreme Board of Financial Markets, including the SEC...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0130par0129	Mr. President, sir, the sentence has been skipped.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0131par0130	I think he's reciting it.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0130par0131	The sentence was skipped. No, you skipped the line before that.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0132par0132	It's a little slow, I don't understand, he's reading too fast.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0131par0133	He switched from the first SPK to the second SPK.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0133par0134	He's gonna read a little slower, okay. Higher troops are being formed according to the interests of the SPK and the BDDK. We're in favor of having the upper boards assembled under one roof in the form of the Financial Market Oversight. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be put together under one roof so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and operated more effectively. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people who practice a tender to establish a direct financial rental company and to be able to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 27, I'm having it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the 27th article of the current Financial Rentals, Factoring and Financial Companies Bill from the draft text. Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0134par0143	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0133par0144	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0135par0145	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0136par0146	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0133par0147	I'm reading the reason: It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Therefore, those who will receive a warrant under the Highway Transport Act should be considered to be the property of the means they will receive by means of financial rental. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring are subject to serious consideration. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. While it may seem sufficient in this first phase, the institutional structure will remain incomplete until it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of having the upper boards assembled under one roof in the form of the Financial Market Oversight. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be put together under one roof so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and operated more effectively. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people who practice tenders to gain the right to start a direct financial rental company and to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 28 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 28 of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Cemalettin Simsek Necati Özensoy D. Ali Torlak Mesut Dedeoğlu Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0137par0163	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0133par0164	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0138par0165	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0133par0166	Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu of Kahramanmarash MP on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0139par0169	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the highly valued lawmakers about the motion we made as the National Movement Party Group. I salute your high council. Highly valued lawmakers, we're discussing a provision of a law that concerns the loans of thousands of small and medium-sized businesses in the financial and backbone of the economy used by the SMEs. In Asia Minor, many of our companies, called Anado Tigers, followed these loans so closely that until ten years ago, these loans were very attractively earmarked to the entrepreneurs, and they were starting businesses with these loans, providing jobs for our country, but in these last ten years, the burden on interest, under the recession of the market, and under heavy conditions, they were taking these loans, providing jobs, providing jobs, and contributing to the Turkish economy, and paying taxes, unfortunately, and contributing to our country. The SME's financial burden has reduced production, and they have followed up on closings. The crisis continued to have the biggest impact on social work, again, on unemployment. This is entirely due to the lack of finance, because our close support for the SME is not complete. Our closing company numbers are too much under this interest load. In particular, our number of companies closing in this decade has increased by 17.3 percent, while in the small business district, the number of income tax-active taxpayers has been reduced to 13.147 in the last year. The number of companies that have been closed and the shortage in the small trades area also has a negative effect on production and employment. However, due to the lack of production and the recession of the market, our workers, our officers, our pensioners, our employees' workforce employment has reduced their buys and they have become miserable. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, along with the recession in the market and market business, cause their bonds to be protested and their checks to be bounced. In 2011, about 3 billion, 460 million, the bond was protested because it could not be paid at its due date. In the same year, our number of bonds, which have been protesting, has risen to 671,679. The number of checks that bounced last April was 181,963. This year, the small and medium-sized business in the backbone of thousands of economies has failed to pay its loans, particularly when it has had to liquidate its business in the financial sector, and most importantly, they have followed it with combined interest. As of July 2012, the cash loans used by the SMEs increased by 4.9 per cent to 170 billion TL793m euros. The loans followed by our COBIs and banks due to financial rentals have increased by 5.3 in this period by 5 billion 487 million. As of July 2012, loans amounted to $59 billion 903m, up 8.8 per cent from the end of 2011, according to data released by the Banking Editing and Control Agency. The annual increase in loans was 18.3. Mr. President, valuable MPs, our SMEs and financial rentals must be improved. We have to do this in order to better him with these laws, to open the way for our contractors and businessmen, to provide employment. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0140par0181	I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0141par0182	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0140par0183	But, Mr. President, I mean, we just did.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0141par0184	Well, you'll have to look for it in matter.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit05spe0140par0185	I'll look for it in matter. Those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit06spe0140par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Article 28 of the Law Bill 239 was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the item back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough of a decision, it's accepted. We will continue negotiations with Bill 239. The commission is here. The government is here. There's a motion in Article 29 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 29 of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be removed from the draft text. Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit06spe0142par0012	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit06spe0140par0013	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit06spe0143par0014	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit06spe0144par0015	Lütfü Türkkan.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit06spe0140par0016	Mr. Lütfü Türkkan. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit06spe0145par0019	Mr. President, it is often said that every assessment of Turkey's economy here is a country where the economy is almost as important as it is, and Fitch has achieved a very important level, and Turkey has become an investment-able country with its latest report. So we said after Fitch's evaluation report, we said: could this report be related to the energy tenders that were supposed to be submitted to France in Turkey? Now, Turkey's current deficit of nine months is about $40 billion. I want to remind you that although this has been felt to be a decline in the trend of the past period, it has fallen at a certain stage, depending on the decline in imports, as well as the decline in consumption. In Turkey, when the economy enters a narrow scissors, consumption decreases, imports decrease, so there is a certain decline in our current deficit, down to $40 billion, but there is talk in all financial circles about how this will reach a much higher number by the end of the year. Nobody tells me that falling this current deficit is about structural reforms. Because import numbers also show consumption numbers, depending entirely on the decline in imports, the reduction in consumption... it's okay if I say it myself alone. You can accept it as a political angajman, you can ignore it, but the testimony that Mr Carson used to explain the Turkish Report today includes a lot of the same things as me, he says: "It's still a very serious risk in Turkey, so it's not possible for us to put Turkey among investable countries. I mean, I see the road that was followed in Fitch that didn't work very well in Moodys. When the Prime Minister doesn't like the previous report of the same Fitch, the international evaluation agencies publish political reports. I expect you to applaud this report as he applauds when he gives a positive report. I mean, Turkey is still uninvestigable to the country's standard, and it's still a very serious risk to investors. We don't have a fundamental objection to this bill, but one objection is that we can also say about all structural reforms: there is no law in Turkey that can make it very easy for financial sectors -- that, despite our insistence, laws for development stand as a wedge in front of Turkey -- that will stimulate production, stimulate production, run domestic industry. I also see it in my own district of choice. Very important industrial companies slowly began to become logistical storage, starting to give up production. Because in imports, the government is not too late to take serial measures that encourage imports very seriously, destroy production. While Turkey's structural reforms are mentioned, we also find that structural reforms that can pave the way for Turkey can be seriously discussed around here. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit06spe0146par0026	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, turn your back on the General Assembly... please let me ask you this way... There's a motion on Article 30, I'll have it read and put to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 30th article of the current Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be removed from the draft text. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit06spe0147par0035	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit06spe0146par0036	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit06spe0148par0037	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit06spe0146par0038	Kütahya MP Mr. Scholar Illum, please.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit06spe0149par0040	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. And I've just said in my speech that we know that this law is important for controlling space or freedom in the market to a certain extent. But it's not possible for us to discipline this market in this way. So, Mr. Secretary, once again, I find it useful to remind you that in order for this market to be controlled and an application that both sides will be pleased with, one upper bound must be put here and removed from this great House. You're going to say: it's set according to free market conditions. It's not set, Mr. Secretary. Please review the number of families whose homes have been broken up so far. The number of families this sector has distributed has grown geometrically. Therefore, with a few points above the official market figures of the state, it is inevitable that a limit should be brought to this sector. Otherwise, some of the homes that will be destroyed may come to you. On the other hand, in the event of globalisation, Turkey has been trying to transform its economy with at least 10 times the amount of money available in the last decade, especially during the administration of AKP rulings, in exchange for the debt-based monetary system, which is worth about 55 billion dollars in circulation; it ends in bankruptcy, Mr. Minister. You're the one who came into this, and you've been in this economy for ten years, and you're responsible. You may be the first to blame for recent bankruptcy and the impact of Turkey's economy. We need to re-examine the system, which is known as this partial reserve system, or the debt-based monetary system, in Turkey, to re-examine the roles of the Central Bank and other banks. So, when these factoring companies and other financial and financing companies are considered in this context, there is an opportunity today to make an adjustment for them, to control them, and I say, let's take this opportunity well. Mr. Secretary, I would like to take this opportunity to present another matter to the agenda of the Supreme Assembly. At the same time, the capital structure of many banks operating in Turkey has been taken over by foreign companies. An important portion of the banks available to foreign companies today have seized and continued to confiscate property owned by many of our citizens in eighty provinces of Turkey. Turkey's territory falls into foreign hands through foreign banks. Please review these numbers as well. Turkey is in great danger. I'd like you to ask my dear friends from practice how many banks, especially Denizbank, have taken the field out of the hands of the villagers, and then, with the right information, put this sector back into perspective. So, in this sense, it is time for Turkey to review the amount of money that is currently in circulation with the Central Bank and end this debt-based monetary system. When you look at the bankrupt countries, we see together that the practices that result entirely from the wrong policy of money are causing this, and you know it very well. So, again, I remind you of the arrangement for these factoring companies. We have to bring an upper bound. Otherwise, the prisons are already taking no one... and right now, there are a lot of people running away from home at night, Mr. Secretary, for fear of the gendarmes, who can't come to your house because of the violation of the commitment. Maybe you don't see it in glass mansions and beautiful seats, in the boardrooms, but we deal with it a lot in practice. These are important matters that must be resolved in this House. He is hereby awaiting your support for our motion, and again, let's think again until this law comes out, and let's resolve these setbacks, and I wish you all the respect.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit06spe0150par0051	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. It's 20 o'clock for the merger. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0150par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 239. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The votes of the substances in chapter one were complete. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter covers the 31st and 54th Articles, including temporary matter 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Adana MP Umit Özüşüşümı. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0151par0010	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the law of financial rentals and factoring. I salute the General Assembly. Since Turkey is a country that has failed to complete capital savings, Turkey has always been involved in the problem of financing, industry, trader, exporter, and credit problems. Turkey suffers more from financing problems than from SMEs and tradesmen. Large firms have done their own work, especially in the last ten years, under the influence of the world's abundant liquids. Besides, it's a sign that in the last year, the private sector's currency debt has increased to $200 billion. So the problem is that the problem of financing is actually the problem of the SME. Dear friends, recently, in a long time, or rather, governments have not been doing anything seriously to solve financial problems for the COBI. From time to time, COBI weeks are praised, some statistical figures are given, but there is nothing seriously done to fund the SMEs. In Turkey, more importantly than the factoring market or the financial rental market, is the People's Bank, which will solve the SME financing problem. See, in Turkey, in the last 50 years, there is at least 80 per cent of companies that have risen from business to SME, from COBI to industry, at the heart of the People's Bank. Unfortunately, the People's Bank left its original mission after the 2001 crisis, leaving the People's Banking mission. After the 2001 crisis, the board of directors, which was appointed by the government at the time, was tried to evacuate the People's Bank, to pursue some plots to another local bank. During the AKP ruling period, after that administration left, our hope that the People's Bank would regain its former mission remained in our interest to sell it like fathers, and the People's Bank again left its mission. When the 2008 crisis came, one of the best aspects of the 2008 crisis to Turkey was that the People's Bank, which had been made ready to sell, was sold another 25 per cent of the People's Bank a few days ago, and a large percentage of its share was sold to foreigners, and another 80 per cent of it was sold to them. Dear friends, note this number and these words: Forty days from now, the new year will come, and this $4.5 billion will go directly into statistics as foreign capital. They will secure the arrival of foreign capital directly in Turkey, including Mr. Prime Minister and other ministers, and will say it's a very good thing. Dear friends, the foreign capital has come directly. When you say it, the citizen assumes that foreign capital is coming directly and investing, with its technology, with its capital, with its investment here. The concept of direct foreign capital is an investment in Turkey's portfolio, which is not something to brag about. When you sell your bank's share, when you sell the shares of the factories, it's not right to make something of it, it should be sad. Last week, in Adana, we were with our Minister of Economics, Mr. Zafer Çalayan. During his speech, he said that even though I was there, 40 percent of foreign capital directly came from the production industry of 45. I asked: "Ya, Mr. Minister, invest in me in the manufacturing industry in Turkey, other than energy investments." No, it's not. The information that came directly as foreign capital was taking stock of companies in the manufacturing industry in Turkey. Production isn't increasing, employment isn't increasing, we're giving stock to foreigners, by the end of the year they're transferring from their profits, so what are we bragging about? We've sold another 25 per cent of the People's Bank, 51 per cent remain in the state; in the coming period we'll sell another 50 per cent stake for $9 billion, and we'll have one more Farm Bank left. When we sell it, it's like Topkapi Palace, Dolmabahçe Palace. It's not the road, so it's not the road that we're selling to finance the current deficit, or we've gone to health care. It's not the road, I'm afraid. Of course, now that the People's Bank has lost its mission, financial rental and factoring has become important, and we've supported the release of this law. So, we've just withdrawn our motions, so it'll come out as soon as possible. As things went well with the financial rental business, a meaningless decision was issued regarding the finance ministry's other ministry earlier year, and the value added tax rate in financial rental was 1 per cent, while the value added value tax rate in the market was moved to 8 or 18 per cent, and a relief was provided by financing the SMEs, while a new decision raised financing costs. In the previous period, the assets that were subject to financial rental were not seen on the active and passive balance sheet, but were only reduced from the cost of rent because it was a rental property, while the money that was subject to financial rentals began to be shown on the active and passive basis of the balance sheet, and a new burden was created on the COBIpres again. Dear friends, factoring is also very important. Again, when the SMEs could not get loans directly from the People's Bank, they began to get funding from the factoring market, but since it was carried out in the previous term under the law and there was a loophole in the legislation, unfortunately in Turkey, the factoring market became the official institutions of loan sharking and the heavy mafia took over, and it hurt a lot of lives, and there are tears in the houses of many families. Now, in this factoring law, to me, the most important, vital, and most positive was the 2nth of the 9th article. So even if a person has cambio paper in their hands, the factoring company won't be a factor if it's not based on a service. Again with a very important item, the holding of the central record system in the factoring company and tracking them. If these are actually applied correctly, the factoring market will work correctly and prevent legal loans. Of course, factoring is important not only in the domestic market, but also in the financing of exports. AKP's 2023 target is $500 billion exports. Dear friends, with this currency policy, with the current financing policy, I've released the exporter, we can't blow exports in 2023, we'll see imports explode again, and we'll see the scissors of the current carcage deficit open again. Here, Turkey's exports were about $135 billion last year, and the loans of Eximbank (eximbank), which the exporter should provide for the real funding. Absolutely, these Eximbank resources need to be increased, 51 per cent of the People's Bank must remain in the state, providing direct financing to the SME by increasing the resources of the two. See, when the resources of Eximbank, in Turkey can't be increased, the American Eximbank, let alone its exporter, gives the importers of other countries very low and very long-term loans, especially in the cotton market, so that foreign countries can take the cotton away from them. That's how other countries support their own industry, their own exporter, and we need to increase the resources of our banks. Is there a source? I do. At the very least, the Republic of Turkey can spend more money on strengthening and exporting its own SME by strengthening the resources of the People's Bank and Eximbank, rather than providing weapons to the terrorists there to stir up the inside of our neighbouring country, rather than the last $400m, as the Finance Minister explained. For him, we find it positive as the Republican People's Party that both the Financial Rental Act and the Factoring Law have changed into law without the law. If the practice is correct, we really, at least, believe that it will comfort the COBI. I wish you all the best, and I pay you back with all the respect.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0152par0023	Thank you, Mr. Ozgimi. Mr Mehmet Günal of Antalya on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0153par0027	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a promise on the second chapter. I salute you all. Dear friends, our speaker friend has just touched on some issues while discussing chapter one. On this occasion, I would like to give you my opinion on some of the developments. We'll give you our opinion again when it comes to motions on matter. Minister, here's one of our friends about the ratings companies you've just mentioned, first of all, I'd like to get past it before I forget it. It's like the weather is being created that the ratings company has increased our grade. So! 'Economy, look, it's going well.' So, when it's bad, you'll accept their martyrdom then? And here, as we are now, is this really where Turkey deserves, is this just a relative improvement? So you can invest from past to present. You call it that, of course, changes are a positive sign for them. But is this level, for example, the funds in the United States, the level of investment in private pension funds? No. So you don't have to be very happy about it or very upset about it, but you really need to do studies that will get Turkey's ratings, because even when you give them the note, they warn you of gold: look, you have to do these things. You have to take that into consideration. Now, our esteemed MP just said something about the Bank of Agriculture. We, the National Movement Party, are opposed to privatisation of public banks, we are opposed to privatisation as a bloc, we have no problem with restructuring, but we see that it's essentially avoiding agricultural loans. Of course, it's one thing to make a profit as a business institution, but the treasure has to pay off when it does damage on certain issues. Thus, we benefit from the use of this in a way that supports production. Here, we also see the same thing in agriculture support, not just in agricultural loans. Since direct production is not supported, support for the land is unfortunately unable to meet the manufacturer, the land owner or indirectly the contractors come and take advantage of it. So we think it's a good idea to give support directly to the person who brings in the product, to the person who makes it. So I think we can encourage production and encourage people who contribute directly to production. Again, the same is true of the People's Bank, which the government has repeatedly said has taken into the privatisation program. If we're going to privatize them, not sell them to strangers in the form of selling blocks, but to those bases here, for example, to the trade-industrial organizations, to the relevant rooms, so that we can prioritize them, so that they can also supervise here. So let's spread the capital to the bottom and enter a self-control process. Otherwise, we sell it for once, and then, like in some private banks, once we're on the initiative of foreign capital, we can face some problems in some places that concern national security as well as the disposing of some land for mortgages. Of course, on top of all that, for this credit system to work -- and in the previous years -- the Credit Guarantee Fund, which we passed on to the Minister -- needs to be activated effectively. Okay, we're making an arrangement, but once they're gone, if the citizen can get his collateral, he'll be fine. They're still having trouble with the collateral. If he already had real estate, if he had a certain thing, he'd mortgage it, but other than that, how would he provide collateral? If their assets fail to provide collateral, they can't get anything from the Credit Guarantee Fund, and small and medium businesses continue to suffer. Now, of course, in order for all of this to happen here, in order for all of this to be put together in order to put together in order, there has to be a co-ordination under economic management, not a stray, but all ministers together. In fact, there shouldn't be so many ministers. We've told Mr. Babacan many times, but he doesn't have anything either. He's also taking care of it as Deputy Prime Minister. Not only that, Mr. Finance Minister says the same thing. You know, right now, slowly, natural gasses are starting to burn too much, or electricity consumption has increased. What did the Minister tell us as the reason for those raises: I told the ministers, but unfortunately they don't listen to what I'm saying, they don't listen to my warnings, they spend off the budget and the budget is open. What do we do? So either we raise taxes a little bit more, or we raise UTV, or VAT, or we raise public goods, such as natural gas, electricity. So, what's it gonna be? You see, the raise we gave the officer, the employee, is 4+4; it's not 7 when we add up the net. Well, the sudden increase is more than 10 percent. So we've done a 49 percent increase in gas in one year, so we're doing a one-time raise. So what you can say here, darling, is that it's not much of a raise. Yes, it may not be very important for the rich, who have money, but for our small-income citizen, the cost of fuel is a basic cost of consumption, especially in the winter months, in their budgets. That's why, of course, that's when we make the citizen pay the bill for bad management. There's already injustice in the distribution of income, and when tax injustice goes into it, our citizen can't handle it. How is that unfair? Where do we get the indirect tax? Over consumption. We're taking the EVP through consumption. And when you take it over consumption, it goes right into the finances' vault. If he gets paid as a tax or income tax, then he has to wait for the charges, he can't get all his collections back, and the finances go to whoever he can get in advance first. So, from a structure that doesn't take the necessary measures and can't co-ordinate under economic management, we can't, of course, expect the solution to these problems to be done as a total. Then what's going on? We're looking at it all of a sudden, sir, here's the kind of argument that the Central Bank doesn't do that, lowers the interest, interferes with the currencies, does this here, does this place. We're not the only ones to say this, so we're not just going to have to go through this thinly between the co-op press and the ministers. I called them brakemen, gasmen among themselves, and now it's in the literature. Now, we're looking, so, when the Central Bank drops some interest, does it hit the brakes or does it hit the gas a little bit more? That's not exactly what I understand. I told you before, if there's a hole in the steering wheel or the driver's driver's license is Class B, if you take it to him and give him heavy equipment, the brakes and the gas don't mean anything. The important thing is to be able to determine where we're going, which way we're going, and how fast we're going. But what happens if we can't do that? What happens is, you know, to the passengers in the bus, the citizens. Unfortunately, we're making the citizen pay for the mismanagement. There's a structure that keeps making the Central Bank a scapegoat. I've told you over and over, Mr. Secretary knows, and we've told him at least every time he's here, and we've warned the Ministry of Affairs and the Prime Minister: Sir, don't try to make anyone a scapegoat because the Central Bank's authority is clear, the government's authority is clear. The government, which determines the Kur regime, is the Central Bank, which implements the policy of courtship. If you just call it price stability, it's good for the Central Bank's low currency. Why? It prevents inflation from coming from the outside through imports. So when you give him this authority, if you put the purpose in front of him, he can use whatever means he wants. But as a government, if you actually change this regime, which is a revenue, a covered fixed Kurd regime -- even if you call it free currency -- because it's actually suppressed -- you're implementing a veiled fixed courtship regime -- and if you come to Turkey and put a controlled wave of courtship regime, then you're going to determine the competitive courtship level that should be based on inflation in our country, in our trade partners. So, sir, why are we opening the deal, how do we close it? We close with short-terms, we get rid of the problem, and we get rid of these problems in production, investment, export campaigns. But the solution to all of this, as I said, is to save economic governance from multi-privilegedness, to change the ministry's structure, to form a collective economic governance. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I hope you'll take this opportunity to consider our words and make positive contributions. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0154par0043	Thank you, Mr. Günal. On behalf of individuals, Congressman Mustafa Şahin of Malatya. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0155par0047	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the second chapter of Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill 239. I salute you all. Dear friends, financial rentals, factoring and financing companies show that our financial system is becoming increasingly important every day. They perform early warnings before the economic crisis. These organizations are helping to develop the economic field in financial life. It is important to ensure that the legislation union is on time in these institutions, which perform an important task for the financial system. In the financial sector, the nature of the work is that the needs in practice are constantly changing due to the effect and actual circumstances of technology. Therefore, it is imperative that the application of the financial sector be harmonised with the legislation. Since there are more than one legal arrangement for the financial sector, it is intended to raise institutions operating in this area under one roof. In the world's economic crisis, the process of affecting financial rentals, factoring and financing companies is much quicker. Therefore, the audit and surveillance of such organizations must be carried out quickly at the time. This law creates the infrastructure needed for effective control and surveillance of companies. Again, financial rental procedures are harmonised with international standards. Another issue that is expected to be covered by the law is the aim of opening its way through hiring, registration, duration and bureaucratic procedures of companies operating in this area. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are intended to be united in legislation and practices by the establishment of financial rental, factoring companies and financing companies under one union. In each article, there are separate motions to delay the bill we're negotiating, for the same reasons. There is one thing that strikes me in the reasons for these motions given to delay time a little bit more -- the people who signed these motions either don't know what they signed, or they haven't read the draft text adopted by the Commission. When we looked at the reasons the friends who signed the motions... the Plan and Budget Commission discussed and made significant changes. In addition, the work we did when we were subcommittee of this Commission, which normally represented the government in the 32nd Union on 11/04/2012, was placed on the table, primarily by our Minister Ali Babacan, the BDK institution, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Finance, the Treasury Undersecretary, the Central Bank, Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Association, the TOBB Factoring Association, with the participation of representatives of the financial companies, and after that, they were aired into the subcommittee and the same commission, with which representatives of the same institutions were held in connection with the same organisation, and with the 12 April 18th, are still required to make the necessary arrangements. We also see all parties involved in these meetings. Everyone has made their own views and opinions clear, separately. Important changes have been made in the top and bottom commission meetings. The motion is said to have formed three separate units. However, we see that the bill adopted by the Commission was established under a single union of financial rentals, factoring and financing companies. So I personally think it's appropriate for our friends to pay a little more attention when they sign their motions. For him, I hope these arrangements will be good again. Besides, it's a day of battle. He will not search for the month of combat in particular, or rather he will not search for Kerbela. Today, in Gaza, in Myanmar, and also in Syria, I wish that the sufferings of the people would end.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0156par0057	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. Moving on to QA. Mr. Özensoy...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0157par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I have expressed in my speech, how will they benefit the farmer after the sale of such institutions, such as the Agriculture Bank, as the People'sbank, and even the IMKB? What are the benefits of an institution such as the IMKB that leads to the spread of capital from the state's hand to the financial markets? I'm curious about that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0158par0063	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0159par0064	Thank you. I have a question for the Minister, that the laws that make this capital a priority are always on hold in the House. Our Turkmen have a saying: "There is no green grass at the bottom of the fig tree. " This factoring law is usually a loan shark's law. Article 54. Can't you put something in the hands of these loan sharks that protects people? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0160par0067	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0161par0068	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I'd like to tell you a very brief piece about the privatisation strategy for our public banks. You know, in November 2002, when we were first in power, the People's Bank and the Agriculture Bank were united under a single joint board, and the merger of the People's Bank and Agriculture Bank was planned by the International Money Fund, and in a way, that was part of all the economic programme documents. So the People's Bank was seen as a bank that could no longer sustain itself, it was weakened, but could survive when it was merged with the Bank of Agriculture, but we...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0162par0072	Mr. Secretary, just a moment. Reverends! Congressmans, I don't hear the Minister's words from your laughter! Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0163par0075	One of the first steps we took was to separate these boards first, and we saw that it was appropriate for the Farm Bank and the People's Bank to continue as separate corporate personalities, and we saw the results of this important step in the opening of the first 25 percent of the People's Bank to the public and then the public supply of 24 percent of the people's population, so in some sense its value will be nullified, as an institution that will be dissolved within the Bank of Agriculture, and now we're talking about an institution that has reached a total market value of about 10 billion dollars. Today, especially after the 2008-2009 crisis, the world's banking sector is in great trouble. So we don't see any of our public banks in the world, we don't see them, we don't see them, we don't see them, we can't see them, we can't see them, we can't see them, we can't see them, we can't see them, we can't see them, we can't see them, we can't see them, we can't see them, we can't see them, we can't see them, we can't see them. On the contrary, major banks are currently operating on the sale of assets, trying to correct their balance sheets by selling their own assets. Thus, the sale of this 51 per cent of the People's Bank or the privatisation process of the Agriculture Bank will not be suitable for the sale of the control share for the next few years anyway. So there's no such step in our plan or in our short and middle-term plan. What have we done with the public supply of these banks, which, as you know, 25 percent of the Vakifbank have been offered to the public? There hasn't been an operation like that at the Farm Bank yet, but it could be on our agenda next semester. It may not have been decided yet, but it may also be the first IPO of the Agriculture Bank. So what we're doing here is we're going to keep these precious public enterprises under state control for a little while longer, while we're using the privatisation revenues that we're getting here to significantly reduce debt. So in a way, the public has debt, and we're paying interest on this loan, and there's assets on the other side. By converting some of this assets into cash, we're reducing our debt, and in total, we're paying less interest. It's the most important benefit of privatisation. Besides, both the Agriculture Bank and the People's Bank, you know, they've really come to a very, very different point in performance in the last decade. These banks were the banks that were constantly doing damage, and they had to transfer funds from the treasure at all times. But for the last ten years, look at it this way, every year as a regular, these banks are supplying, profiting, paying taxes to the finances, and paying the treasure. The value the public banks have transferred to the treasure so far is over $10 billion, which they've won and transferred to the treasure as collateral. For years, tens of years of mission damage, these banks are now working in a profitable way. On the one hand, the People's Bank has reached huge volumes with trade loans, on the other hand, with Farm Bank farmers' loans, and on the other hand, interest has dropped very much, and in the last decade, the number of tradesmen and farmers who have benefited from these loans has reached very, very high numbers. Public banks are run separately, independently, by their own boards, and they work in competition, both competing with each other and with private sector banks. As for the Istanbul Stock Exchange... you know, in the Capital Market Law -- which probably, hopefully, next week -- looks like it's coming up on the agenda of the General Assembly -- we're predicting to create a stock exchange Istanbul anonymous company, and we're thinking of creating both stocks and bonds and bonds, and their derivatives, as well as their precious minerals and products and energy, as well as the current design. The IPO of this will also allow us to provide some privatisation revenue from there, but on the other hand, it'll be a company that we'll be overseeing very closely by the Capital Market Board. So all the strategic decisions there can only be taken with the approval of the state's relevant institutions, so the fact that the stock structure there has changed is certainly not taking away our right to edit and control as our government, which we call an anonymous company in Istanbul, which is almost every step he makes by the Capital Market Board. Its public appearance is also very, very important for transparency in the market's Istanbul anonymous company. It's also very useful in terms of good management, and it's also very, very useful in terms of a little more profit-oriented work, and in terms of performance-oriented work. Of course, it's only steps to take after becoming an anonymous company, but it's in the legal arrangement -- as we look at the details of the Capital Market Law -- and it's also in the spirit of the government's close pursuit, regulation, and control. Again, as to the final question, in a sense this arrangement gives our Banking Control and Editing Agency a strong arrangement, audit and also sanction, as well as a firm basis for financial rental, factoring, and consumer financing. So our belief here is that, frankly, up until now, maybe not very closely, perhaps untraceable, even unorganized, even legal infrastructure, is to establish a much stronger legal framework in a law-enforcement sector, in a way, and also to ensure that our KOBI priests, who are using the services of these companies, are protected from possible misdeeds or misdeeds in some way. You know, the BDDK is also an important complaint for those who use credit. If people who use loans complain for any reason, if they think they're being wronged, they're always coming to BDDK, the BDDK is deciding, and so far we've been fined a lot of banks and similar organizations by BDK. In fact, we're bringing in this law, in a sense, a legal infrastructure and a close-up of transactions that are referred to in the market as "fessionism" or that are perceived in such a way. It's also a matter of fact, there are strong criminal substances here. Because the rules, you know, apply if they're sanctioned. Set the rules, but if there's no sanction against the rules, then there may be serious problems with the implementation of that rule. So this law gives us both the authority to make rules, and it gives the more heavily weighted criminal authority to the BDDK, and the closure of those who are not in the field of action, you know, it's still in the context of this law. Unauthorised activity is also punishable by criminal punishment. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0079	Thank you. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There's a motion in Article 31 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 31 of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be removed from the draft text. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0165par0086	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0087	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0166par0088	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0167par0089	Motive...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0090	I'm having it read. It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Therefore, those who will receive a warrant under the Highway Transport Act should be considered to be the property of the means they will receive by means of financial rental. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring have issues that need to be seriously evaluated. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. While it may seem sufficient in this first phase, the institutional structure will remain incomplete until it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of having the upper boards assembled under one roof in the form of the Financial Market Oversight. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be put together under one roof so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and operated more effectively. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people who practice tenders to gain the right to start a direct financial rental company and to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0168par0096	The decision is sufficient, sir...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0097	I will. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. There's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0169par0100	There aren't 100, sir. There aren't 100.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0101	For God's sake!
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0169par0102	Count it, count it.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0103	I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 32, I'll read it and process it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 32 of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be removed from the draft text. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0170par0108	We can't agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0109	Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0171par0110	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0172par0111	Motive...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0112	I'm having it read. It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Therefore, those who will receive a warrant under the Highway Transport Act should be considered to be the property of the means they will receive by means of financial rental. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring are subject to serious consideration. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. While it may seem sufficient in this first phase, the institutional structure will remain incomplete until it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of having the upper boards assembled under one roof in the form of the Financial Market Oversight. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be put together under one roof so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and operated more effectively. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people who practice tenders to gain the right to start a direct financial rental company and to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 33, I'll have it read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 33 of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be removed from the draft text. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0173par0124	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0125	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0174par0126	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0175par0127	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0128	I'm having it read. It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Therefore, those who will receive a warrant under the Highway Transport Act should be considered to be the property of the means they will receive by means of financial rental. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring are subject to serious consideration. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. While it may seem sufficient in this first phase, the institutional structure will remain incomplete until it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of having the upper boards assembled under one roof in the form of the Financial Market Oversight. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be put together under one roof so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and operated more effectively. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people who practice tenders to gain the right to start a direct financial rental company and to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions in Article 34. I'll have them read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 34 of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Financial Companies Act (1) be changed as follows. Articles 764, 765, 766 of the Turkish Civil Code No. 666 and Section 1 of Turkish Debts Act 6098 are not implemented in Articles 2/11/2001 on Articles 2/11/2001 of Articles 2/11/2001 and "Considement 4 and Article 4 of Part 4 of Part 4 about Paying Sales. I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 34 of the current Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be removed from the draft text. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0176par0144	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0145	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0177par0146	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0178par0147	Motive...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0148	I'm having it read. It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Therefore, those who will receive a warrant under the Highway Transport Act should be considered to be the property of the means they will receive by means of financial rental. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring are subject to serious consideration. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. While it may seem sufficient in this first phase, the institutional structure will remain incomplete until it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of having the upper boards assembled under one roof in the form of the Financial Market Oversight. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be put together under one roof so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and operated more effectively. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people who practice tenders to gain the right to start a direct financial rental company and to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 34 of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Financial Companies Act (1) be changed as follows. Article 764, 765, 766 of the Law on Turkish Civil Law, dated 22/11/2001, and under Articles No. 1 of Turkish Debts No. 698 and Section 4 of Section 4 of the Law on Compensational Sales, and Article 2 of Section 4 of the Second Amendment, "Convent and Fractured Business Rents will not apply. Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı (Istanbul) and Friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0179par0161	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0162	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0180par0163	We agree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0181par0164	Motive...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0165	I'm having it read. Since the Bill of Law is in effect during the commission's work, the Law on Debts No. 818 must be updated as part of Article 6098 under the Turkish Law on Debts. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the clause to your votes within the agreed motion framework: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 35 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 35 of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be removed from the draft text. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0182par0174	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0175	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0183par0176	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0184par0177	Motive...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0178	I'm having it read. It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Therefore, those who will receive a warrant under the Highway Transport Act should be considered to be the property of the means they will receive by means of financial rental. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring are subject to serious consideration. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. The institutional structure will be incomplete in this first phase, but it will not be completed until it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies, which are said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of having the upper boards assembled under one roof in the form of the Financial Market Oversight. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be put together under one roof so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and operated more effectively. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people who practice tenders to gain the right to start a direct financial rental company and to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes... those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 36 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask that Article 36 of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Financial Companies Act be removed from the draft text. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0185par0190	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0191	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0186par0192	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0193	I'm having it read. It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Therefore, those who will receive a warrant under the Highway Transport Act should be considered to be the property of the means they will receive by means of financial rental. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring are subject to serious consideration. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. This will appear to be sufficient in the first phase, but the institutional structure will remain incomplete before it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of having the upper boards assembled under one roof in the form of the Financial Market Oversight. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be put together under one roof so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and operated more effectively. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people who practice tenders to gain the right to start a direct financial rental company and to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 37 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 37 of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Bill be removed from the draft text. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0187par0205	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0206	Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0188par0207	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0189par0208	Motive.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0209	I'm reading the reason: It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Therefore, those who will receive a warrant under the Highway Transport Act should be considered to be the property of the means they will receive by means of financial rental. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring have issues that need to be seriously evaluated. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. The institutional structure will be incomplete in this first phase, but it will not be completed until it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies, which are said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of having the upper boards assembled under one roof in the form of the Financial Market Oversight. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be put together under one roof so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and operated more effectively. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people who practice tenders to gain the right to start a direct financial rental company and to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion in Article 38 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following 3rd and 4th and 5th jokes be added to Article 38 of the Common Financial Rentals, Factoring and Financial Companies Act. (3) Apart from the Factoring contracts and papers related to the age of these contracts and the processing of the papers provided to guarantee them, the transactions related to these papers are subject to tuition. (4) The terms of Article 150 of Law 2004 shall be applied in the exchange of mortgages as collateral for loans stemming from the Factoring contract. (5) Article 68/b of the Law of 2004 shall be imposed on notars sent to customers and guarantors by factoring companies for failing to pay their bail payments. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0190par0225	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0226	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0191par0227	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0228	I'm reading the reason: Article 33 of this Law should also be recognized by factoring companies, as well as by the principle of equality of legal opportunities, which are well-known to financial rental companies in the 3rd and 4th and 5th jokes of the Law. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 39 to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on item 40, I'm having it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 40 of the 239 Numbered Legislature. We propose and propose that the phrase "one month" in Article 2 shall be changed to "two months." Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0192par0238	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0239	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0193par0240	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0241	I'm reading the reason: The change aims to give companies more time to complete preparations for joining the Union. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 41 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 41 of the 239 Numbered Legislature. Article 1. We provide and propose the addition of the bell below the joke. fucking support and support for activities that will make their members more socially and culturally equipped and improve their sense of social responsibility. Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0194par0251	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0252	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0195par0253	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0254	I'm reading the reason: The change aims to boost the perception and activities of members of the Union of social responsibility. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 41st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 42nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 44 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 1st joke (b) and (c) be changed in the following manner, in Article 44 of the current Financial Rentals, Factoring and Financial Companies Bill. Article 44 (1) - By the Council's decision and by the basis for which it is stated to the companies: (b) The first joke (b) of Article 9 (b) or (c) in violation of the bender, has been arranged in the following (c) situation, with no receipts for the factoring company and non-responsive processing of the amount, not less than ten per cent of the ten thousand Turkish liras. C) Up to 10 per cent of the number of transactions which have been incompatible with Article 9's second joke in the Central Bills Register system, and if the company is not covered by legal means of resolving or resolving the discretion within the 15-day period to be identified, not less than ten thousand Turkish liras. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0196par0268	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0269	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0197par0270	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0198par0271	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0272	I'm reading the reason: In the Bill, the administrative fines set in Articles 44 (b) and (c)bents of Articles 44 in particular are far above the punishments imposed in the case of other sectors in the same Law, and conflicting with other penal clauses of the Law, and also contrary to the principle of proportionality in punishment. Factoring companies may even raise bankruptcy as a result of penalties. That's the criminal law...
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0199par0276	Mr. President, he's reading too fast, we don't understand the reason.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0277	The fuses will blow from now on, just so you know. .... He doesn't follow the general principles. Even for banks whose paid capital is one-and-a-half times the number of Factoring companies, Banking Act 5411 is the most severe administrative fine in the Law on Banking; the fines envisioned in the draft bill, which constitutes a maximum amount of 10% of punishment, are up to 10 times higher, so the highest administrative fine for the Factoring companies is 100 times higher than the maximum penalty for banks. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 45 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I give you 47... those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I give you 48, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I give you 49, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 50 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 50 of the current Financial Rentals, Factoring and Financial Companies Bill be removed from the draft text. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0200par0291	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0292	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0201par0293	No, we don't.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0294	I'm having it read. It's not a new bill, it's a rough bill in the last legislature. This period has been sent to Parliament without any updates. While drafting a bill, a bill has not been submitted to the necessary institutions of the issue, has not been taken into consideration, and the bill has not gone through the normal process. The main reason why property ownership is found in the financial rental company is because property creates the collateral function of financing for the tenant. The property that is sought for property in the financial rental agreements and in the relevant Laws must be met by subsidised subsidiaries who continue their business by using the property on the subject of the contract. Therefore, those who will receive a warrant under the Highway Transport Act should be considered to be the property of the means they will receive by means of financial rental. Taxes and exception demands in this arrangement have been found not to be discussed with the Finance Ministry, and the confusion remains because there is no clarity. Occupational units have been proposed as three separate unions, including the bill's financial rental, factoring and financing companies. Such an important bill is wrong to be sent to parliament without resuscitation in the world's crisis. Financial rental and factoring have issues that need to be seriously evaluated. Despite offering the example of insurance in the subcommittee, the TOBB officials have proposed the model of the sector board within the TOBB, there has been no definite opinion on this issue. The upper board, the co-ordination board, and we're against unity inflation because it leads to non-coordination. The commission envisions a single union of three types of financial institutions. While it may seem sufficient in this first phase, the institutional structure will remain incomplete until it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, operating in the upper Union as subsidiaries of financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of having the upper boards assembled under one roof in the form of the Financial Market Oversight. BDDK, TMSF, we think it's more accurate to have a Financial Markets Oversight set up and have apartments under it. In this framework, a unit of all financial institutions must be put together under one roof so that co-ordination can be assembled in one place and operated more effectively. The bill calls for an end to contractorship activities. However, it is not a fair approach, and it is against the law of competition, for real people who practice tenders to gain the right to start a direct financial rental company and to gain unfair earnings in terms of capital competence. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion in Article 51 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of number (2) to Article 51 of the current Financial Rentals, Factoring and Financial Companies Bill. (2) The Council of Ministers is authorized to determine the maximum interest rates and the maximum rates or rates of their other interests, which they will implement in the process of loaning financial rental, factoring and financing companies and branches to Turkey, partially or entirely free them. The Council of Ministers may hand over their powers to the Central Bank of Turkey. Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0202par0307	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0308	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0203par0309	We're in.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0310	I'm reading the reason: Article 144 of Banking Law 5411 is intended to be a parallel ruling. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. In the agreed motion framework, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 52 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the temporary article 1 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary article 2, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary article 3, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the temporary Article 4 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the temporary item 5, so let's get it read and carried on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the removal of the current Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finances Companies Act from the text of Article 5 of Article 5. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0204par0324	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0325	Government?
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0205par0326	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0327	Motive... ▪ Temptation 5 of the provisions for theeystrians. The clause must not be included in this law. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 54 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The commission has a request for a rewrite, and we're listening to it. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0206par0336	Mr. President, there is a term in the interim Article 3 in the form of the expression of the unit, but in Article 40, a single union has been established. Therefore, we demand that the union be redacted in the form of a declaration.
tbmm-2012-11-21sit07spe0164par0337	The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. The negotiations of the bill are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and in spite of that help, the members of the voting boards will be delivered to the presidency within three minutes of the scheduled vote. I would also like to ask the ministers to vote in the three-minute period envisioned for the vote, which includes the color of the game and the name and the signature of its vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Bill 239 in the open vote: [[x]] Good luck, good luck. According to the decision taken, it is Thursday (November 22nd 2012) at 14 p.m. to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Good night.
