tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 26th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. III. Exposure We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. Congressmans, it would be really nice if we could remove the hum from the General Assembly so that our friends who are going to speak off the agenda can make their presentations healthier. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Eskişehir MP Ruzar Demirel, who asked for a comment on World Children's Rights Day. Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0002par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute you all. Today is November 20th, World Children's Rights Day. We've had ceremonies in our parliament, we've had friends who attended; we've had deputies who've made press statements, and we've had them, but I think you'll be able to hear very little of what I'm going to say because of the noise in the parliament; I hope our citizens watching TV will hear us enough. Actually, I'd like to talk to you today about what it's like to be a child in Turkey. What does it mean to be a child in Turkey? In the days of rights, such statistics as what rights are and what injustices we face, and on Women's Rights Day, women's statistics, children's statistics on Children's Rights Day, and their statistics and what we fail to achieve in the days of the disabled. But I want to tell you in a nutshell what it's like to be a child in Turkey today. Say that you were born a healthy child, and you could get breast milk, and your mother nursed you, and your family is a sensitive family, and you've had your vaccines, and as much as you can, your immune system has developed, and you've come in very healthy until you're two and a half or three years old. Now, on a day like that, misfortune could be an example for you to find you and lose your arm to be a child in Turkey because of a false injection in the hospital where you're going because of an upper respiratory infection. Losing your arm, of course, is unfortunate, but it is more painful that our state, who claims to be a social state, does not have your condition, and that you can only have an electronic prosthetic prosthetic prosthetic in Turkey by following your case against your country at the gates of the ECHM until the age of a teenager. Or say you haven't had that kind of misfortune, you're four or five years old. If your parents found the school money to sign you up for school, if they had enough money for the service, let's say you started kindergarten as a good and healthy boy at school, but at school, the sink could fall on you, the garden door could fall on you, the basketball hoop could fall on you, and you could leave us. This is a very common example for us to have children in Turkey. But if all of this doesn't happen to you at school, and you have a happy day in kindergarten, and you and your mom and your sister hold hands at the end of school, and you say, "Let's go to the park," and you get on the slide, it's a country you have to watch out for, Turkiy. Because the next day in the papers, the country may know about you as the last victim of the maganda bullet. This is what it's like to be a child in Turkey. But let's just say that all of this aside, you weren't born healthy, you had obstacles. In fact, you were hearing and speech impaired, and you were a daughter. You didn't know what was in the world like most of them, and by the time you were twelve, thirteen years old, you were abused, raped by a much larger man than you, and you didn't know what that was, so you couldn't tell the adults enough, and then one day your family realized it. If you want to end your pregnancy in these illegal ways, you'll have another barrier. You've passed that period because there are ten weeks of legal abortions in Turkey, someone tells you. This is what it's like to be a child in Turkey. So, when a child in Turkey is abused, raped, it's a series of rights that include knowing how to eliminate it. And, of course, our children who have dealt with this situation also have a mental health problem. It's as if after such abuse and rape, their mental health could be normal. Turkey is still a country with such substances in its laws. This is what it's like to be a child in Turkey. Besides, isn't there something fun about being a child in Turkey? Of course you do. Someone can offer you presents from time to time. Especially during election times, they throw Chinese toys out of political parties' cars, and you try to have these toys as if you're crushing each other with other, if you're a child in Turkey. Even if all of this didn't happen, a group of people who intended to divide your country, whose body is bigger than yours, whose size is bigger than yours, but whose mental state can be discussed, can make you a party to their crimes in this country, and you can be a child involved in crime. Even if you've never experienced any of it, when you're a little older, you'll be subject to SBS, YGS, LYS, exams. Here's something you need to know, not for child's rights, but for the sake of sustaining life in Turkey: the password. Knowing the code is one of the responsibilities of the children in Turkey. That's what it's like to be a child in Turkey, until today. I hope we adults can make arrangements for you to leave a better country, better childhood memories under the roof of this House. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0003par0031	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mr Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu who asked for a speech due to Teacher's Day on November 24th. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0004par0036	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, before I begin with my words, I salute and cherish you dear members of the High Assembly. My dear friends, it is celebrated on November 24th as Teacher's Day, when the Grand Leader Ataturk accepted the National School of Teachings. On this occasion, I celebrate these days of all our teachers and send them greetings and love. Congressmans, I'd like to read you quotes from the letter that the late Mustafa Necati, who served as Minister of National Education in the early years of our republic, wrote to the appointed teacher. In the distribution of teacher schools' graduates this year, the province of "National Education Safety" hit you in the region. It's a very productive corner of the good country that needs your help, your hard work, and your guidance. The immediate deployment of its destination is written at the site of the mission. As soon as you get there, you'll get the cost of my donuts. Since national training management has been instructed to provide the highest level of assistance on the roads, a man with a star on his collar will wait and guide you. That's why you have to put a star on your collar so they can get to know you easily. Where you're going isn't exactly where you're from. Especially this year, you have an honorable task to generalize new Turkish letters. You have to work hard enough to get all the country's children to read in new letters and not leave an illiterate chapter in Turkey. So learn the new Turkish letters quickly and start teaching everyone right away. To achieve that goal, the bench is not necessary for the school. Everywhere you see men, women, poor, rich, farmers, merchants, peasants and townsmen, you will teach them immediately. A Minister of National Education, whose job is to make sure that he will win this great victory for our nation in a short period of time, and I expect the news to begin, my dear colleague. And now, for a Minister of National Education, who is waiting for his appointment and who is not making his appointments, he calls it "doves waiting for food" and is remarkable to reflect the value of teaching and teaching in our country. Congressmans, is there any other country that has been brought down by marketing education, constantly crushing workers, running cheap and unsecured, using such cruelty, violence on its teacher? Is one of the wives assigned to the east and west of the country? We have no work to give you to teachers who can't be appointed. Find another job outside of teaching. In what country is it heard? The Day of Teachers on November 24th, many of our teachers in our country are unemployed, while the workers celebrate in poverty and poverty. Those who view education as a burden on the state's back made it someone's rant door, denominating education as a basic right. They opened their education fields to the service of the market and created a class dissolution in education. A new and separate class was created under the name of the teacher. The Ministry of National Education wants to maintain order by paying the teacher a third of what he has to pay. It's too big to be closed with open-paying teachers in the education system. The number we're talking about is around 81,902 people working for $7.9 per class. Besides, these teachers don't attend classes for three or five hours, as the Minister says, they go to 26 to 30 hours a week. The words of the Prime Minister and the Minister of National Education, often insulting teachers, underestimating their work, remain fresh. Over 350,000 teachers are unemployed and expect to be appointed. Many of our unemployed teachers are working in construction and our troubled, psychologically distressed teachers are likely to commit suicide. My dear friends have affected the problems of the education system in Turkey that haven't been solved in years much more negatively than their teachers and other education workers in other countries. In addition, all of these negatives include "Hello, I'm Reporting Teacher, I'm Calling My Teacher's Caller's Line, and the method of snitching and secret witness has been further developed, and the assistant managers have been assigned to each school to tag political teachers. Dear friends, the main goal of the regulation under which it is called "Teaching Career Steps" is to question Ataturk's leadership. In all these circumstances, despite the negativity, I celebrate Teachers' Day, our teachers' Day, which is doing their best in their teaching duties, and again, I greet and greet the esteemed MPs of the High Assembly with love and respect for the honorable, primitive, educational missions they're trying to carry out. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0005par0056	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Mr Murat Yıldırım, a member of the Borrum MP who wanted to express his views on the devastating war against the people of Gaza. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0006par0061	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I speak, I offer God's mercy and condolences to the martyrs in Hakkari, and I curse the PKK terrorist organization, and I salute you with respect. Gaza is being bombed again from the blockade, from the air, from the land, from the sea. A people is being destroyed. The leaders of those people are being assassinated. Seven days' balance sheet: 115 martyrs and more than 900 wounded, half of the dead children. Houses are being destroyed by bombs. A city, a country is being destroyed. Hospitals are crawling with wounded people. There's no medical supplies, there's no drugs. The wounded are sentenced to death. The Minister of Health is screaming: "O mankind, we are dying. We're dying, but please let our children live. Send us medical supplies and medicines. Near the heavy embargo of Israel, Jerusalem is still occupied, and Israel's construction activities are still under construction around the mosque Aksa. Israel is deliberately disintegrating Palestinian territory, opening new settlements in East Jerusalem and the West Bank. He has blockaded Jerusalem with concrete barriers, making restrictions on the daily lives of the Palestinian people. People go to schools, universities, hospitals, and businesses through dozens of checkpoints. Chemicals are used in search of vehicles at checkpoints, which disrupts people's health. As if more than 600,000 Palestinians who were taken from their homeland were not enough to live in the refugee camps of Palestinians in their refugee states, today, the Palestinian people were also subject to genocide. Once again, this massacre demonstrates the hypocrisy of the dominant forces. Israel attacks Gaza before each election. Some Western states and sovereign forces call it self-defense. What kind of defense is this? Israel attacks and kills all the time. The Israeli governments are ruling over the blood of the innocent. Freedom of the sovereign forces, democracy, human rights are no more than the waters of the Mediterranean. The situation in Gaza is dire, but we must not despair or grieve. A mighty voice in Gaza shouts with the power of Hakk, and with the power of the people to the faces of the oppressors and murderers: "You can destroy us, you can kill us, but Jerusalem will one day be free." The city of peace, Jerusalem, is Israel. The bloodshed state is the terror state of Israel. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Gaza, Jerusalem, Palestine, the entire Middle East people, are fighting for a resurrection. Let no man think that his persecution will get away with his bloodshed. One day they will be questioned about their deeds. Our Palestinian brothers will one day surely have the most blessed victory, just like the people of Tunisia, the people of Egypt and Libya. Hopefully, these days will pass. History is experiencing a new break. It is the overthrow of the rulers of the oppressors, and the liberation of the peoples, that Gaza will have its share in the West Bank and Jerusalem. Resistance will bring justice and justice will bring freedom. We are the children of the people who stand by the oppressed and who fear the wrongdoers. Our prime minister gave the message from Cairo to the whole world and Israel. Our people are with our brothers, all of them, from Gaza. A lot of help is being done through NGOs, and I thank them. Like yesterday, we will continue to support and support Gaza's brave men, the resistance, in their righteous cause today. Israeli politicians will also harm their own people with their aggressive and terrorist behavior. That's why they need to give up this impropriety, aggressive policies as soon as possible. Israel commits war crimes, and I strongly condemn and protest this state's terrorism. As he salutes all of you, unfortunately, today 12 foreign ministers are still in Gaza, while the bombs continue, and the attacks continue and do so in self-defense. There's no way there's a state that's so reckless, so insensitive, so betrayed. Therefore, I invite the entire Islamic world, the Turkish nation and Turkey to be with Gaza, and salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0007par0076	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. According to Article 60, there are very short requests for words. I'll give it to my first 10 friends. Dear Citizen...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0008par0081	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish that the Day of Child Rights, November 20th, will be a blessing to our country and to the children of the world. I thank the Ministry of Health officials who reduce mother and baby mortality to the level of European countries; the members of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy who contribute to the growth of self-reliance, knowledgeable, national and moral values, and to provide modern and modern education for children who are our futures; the National Ministry of Education who implement the FATH Project; and all members of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy who conduct work on children in a future administration. I wish that the child's ombudsman, which has been enforced by our parliament, should be immediately implemented and contribute to the removal of the child's rights. I hate Israel and its collaborators who kill innocent children in Palestine. I salute all the world's children with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0009par0086	Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0010par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I attended the Syrian National Dialogue Meeting in Tehran, Iran, on November 18-19 2012. In this two-day meeting, gathered with the title Yes to Democracy, the two-day meeting sought a solution to the conflicts in Syria through dialogue and negotiations. More than 100 representatives from the Middle Eastern countries, particularly the non-armed elements of the Syrian opposition, participated. At the event, held by representatives of the Chinese and Russian governments, the president of the World Peace Council, Brazilian peace envoy Socorro Gomes, also gave a speech. Unfortunately, we didn't see a representative of our government at this meeting. We can't help but wonder if the government would have sent representatives to Democracy if yes, in violence rather than in violence. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0011par0091	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0012par0093	Mr. President, thank you very much. We have a problem running a mine at the Cerattepe location just above Artvin's downtown. I've brought this before and last year's congressional research into the House's agenda. In connection with this problem, the Artvins have applied to the judiciary, particularly the Green Artvin Society. The Rize Administration Court -- the demand for the halt of the executive court -- when the motion for trial was submitted -- has unfortunately rejected the request for a halt, but after that, it has been decided to halt the execution in response to an appeal to the Tripoli District Administration Court on the removal of the demand for the execution. This decision to stop the execution is in the best interest of all the people of Artvin. We've been trying to explain from the beginning -- what we claimed -- that mining in Cerattepe was a crime against Artvin, a rape against Artvin. The Supreme Court has made that decision. I wish the mining company would stop working as soon as possible, and the relevant governorship, and our governorship of Artvin control it, and once again, I wish good luck to the people of Artvin. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0013par0098	Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0014par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I resent the attack on Pir Sultan Abdal's tent that took place two days ago in Erzincan. In Erzincan, when we live as brothers with Alevi, with Sunni, I want the authorities to focus more seriously on this work, as the second incident occurred in Erzincan. He has done three or five marauders. The atmosphere is tense to avoid and avoid this event and to maintain his hatred speech. I think we should be careful with that. A second issue: the price of animals being cut because they are tuberculosis is made by the decision made by the Appreciation Commission, but the inspector who came to Erzincan has given a price reduction of between 250 and 300 liras from disregarding the Commission's decision. Although the decision is made by the Central Appreciation Commission, this decision should not be counted, and therefore the destruction of our citizens there... I want an immediate measure on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0015par0104	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0016par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. I celebrate Teacher's Day for all our teachers. I wish all our teachers health, happiness and success. And I am graciously reminiscing to our teachers who are on their way to the Hereafter. I hereby request that our teachers' rights be restored to their duties. I'd like to remind the Ministry of National Education that teachers, especially the spouse situation and the rankings, must be adhered to a rule. On the one hand, the unassigned teacher, on the other hand, wishes that this awkward situation be eliminated, with all due respect.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0017par0109	Mr. Güyük...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0018par0111	Mr. President, today is World Children's Rights Day, where Palestinian children, who should be playing in the streets and going to school like their brothers, are being slaughtered; nine months, four years old children disappear with the innocence and purity of mankind. I curse the Israeli regime, the terrorist and child killer. I also curse the Syrian regime, which is a brother to Israel and a brother to the children's murder, on behalf of all the children. Meanwhile, the CHP delegation, who had been imprisoned in Syrian prisons for eighty-seven days, had the opportunity to see the atrocities of being photographed with Assad.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0017par0113	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0019par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Onion producers in Amasia were unable to sell the onions, which cost 24 cents last year, for 15 cents. They either left it in the field or they threw it away. Onion costs are high this year. So far, the onions have not been worth what they want, can't be sold by the farmer. I ask the government's authorities, are they going to leave the onion manufacturers alone in Amasya, to come up with a solution to their fate? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0020par0118	Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0021par0120	Mr. President, let's not forget the conditions of children's lives in our district and in our country on Children's Rights Day. According to TIC data, there are 1 million children working in our country. 2.225 in juvenile detention. The children who died in Syria, Palestine, are right in front of us. Of course, we never forget Roboski. It's the war scenarios of imperial forces that threaten children the most. It is our duty to prevent wars in the region and our country, to free the people and to make them brothers and sisters, against our children. So, to win a warless country and a future, let's consider the solution to the hunger strike that ended without killings. Our Kurdish citizens know what they want and say it everywhere. It's in the government, and it's in response to that call. To stop the war, to silence the weapons must be the first step. It is our responsibility to provide a solution based on the equality of rights and language through democratic means and fundamentals, to bring peace to future generations and children. To watch, not to wait; to take immediate steps quickly.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0022par0123	Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0023par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, it's World Children's Rights Day. One of the children's rights is the right to education, but unfortunately, the Adıyaman children go to the surrounding provinces and regions as workers because of the government's wrong policies. We still have children in Erzincan that don't go to school when they're at beetroots. Two and a half months have passed since the opening of the school, they still have no right to education. This matter needs to be corrected immediately. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0024par0129	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0025par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, on November 17-18, 2012, a press statement issued to students who wanted to study at İstanbul University's Akıt Square with no money was distributed by water containing chemicals that were sprayed on the students. This chemical, which bores, burns the bodies of the students, sticks to their body and leaves traces. It's really not acceptable. I demand that the Ministry act on this matter immediately. It's World Children's Day, November 20th. While celebrating World Children's Day, 16 million 264 thousand children work as workers in our country. I expect these children to be granted social security by the Ministry immediately handling this matter, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0026par0134	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and present them to your knowledge. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The visit to our country along with the Parliamentary delegation of Laurent MOSAR, chairman of the Luxembourg House of Representatives, was met with the 12th,11,2012th and 35th Amendment decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The visit of the delegation to our country is the 7th Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It is subject to the information of the General Assembly. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation of the Tunisian National Founder's Assembly, Rights, Freedoms and Foreign Relations Commission was eligible for an official visit to our country from 6 November to 10 November 2012, as a guest of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The visit of the delegation to our country is the 7th Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It is subject to the information of the General Assembly. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, the Constitution is 98th and 104th of the Turkish Parliament's Interior Charter for the prevention of corn producers and increasing corn production by investigating the problems of corn agriculture and corn producers. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we'd like to submit the opening of Parliamentary Research. 19.12.2011 [[Manisa]] [[Kastamon]] [[İzmir]] [[Erzurum]] [[Mersin]] [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] 9) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Kütahya]] [[Adana]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Adana]] 14) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Adana]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] 19) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] 20) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Inconceived]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] The United States, China, EU countries, Brazil and Mexico are the most influential countries in the production of the world's corn. Turkey, which receives 0.4 per cent of the world's production of corn, consumes almost all of the corn it produces in the country. The amount of corn production and production in the world is constantly increasing due to the demand for corn in bioethanol production and the use of seed corn. In 2005/2006, corn production on Earth was 149.6 million hectares, 713.6 million tonnes, while corn consumption was 728 million tonnes. In 2010/2011, at 160 million hectares, the consumption is 835 million tons. In 2003, 2.8 million tonnes of corn were produced in our country, while in recent years the second product growth and efficiency increased to 4.3 million tonnes in 2010, due to producers who gave up cotton production towards corn. In parallel with the increase in corn production in 2000/2001, domestic corn use reached 5.1 million tonnes in 2008/2009, and was paid about $1 billion in imports of 3.2 million tonnes of corn from 2007-2010. While the watered areas needed to expand to increase the production of corn, irrigation investments cannot be completed due to lack of funding. The cost of irrigation is high in Egypt. To reduce irrigation costs, the use of rain and drops must be made public. Our corn producers have difficulty reaching new seeds and species. The number and function of product markets that manufacturers can market their products for is inadequate. TMO is taking action in corn instead of receiving support. Some years without buying, but some of TMO's practices, which have taken up 30 per cent of the total amount of production in some years, are victims of corn producers. The corn, stocked by TMO, was sold for 106 dollars in 2006, and in 2007 the same corn was imported at 230 dollars. In other countries, our corn producers are forced to compete with world markets because of more support, higher efficiency and low input costs. In 2004, the price of corn, which was 250 cents a pound, was reduced to 200 cents a pound in 2007, while in 2009, 2010 and 2011, it was announced as 400 cents a pound. In 2005, diesel support, 240 cents, increased by only 56 per cent in 7 years. Fertilizer prices have increased by 200 per cent over the last three years, while fertilizer support has only increased by 11 per cent. When corn production is sufficient, lowering customs tax rates and allowing imports during the harvest period causes corn prices to decline on the domestic market, which victimises the corn producer. The cost of 1 kg of corn imported in December 2011 is over 1 lira, along with shipping and customs taxes. During the 2011 harvest period, corn was worth $650 in Turkey, while the price of corn was reduced to 50 cents a month after the harvest. Low price practices in Egypt put producers in a difficult position, deterring the manufacturer from planting corn. A similar situation occurred in 2005, and production dropped 400,000 tonnes in 2006. GMO products, published on March 18, 2010, cannot be produced in our country, while GMO products are not banned from importing and selling, but the sale of these products has been legalized in our country. Of the 158 million hectares produced in the world, 29 percent of GMO corn is produced. Turkey imports corn from GMO-producing countries every year. In particular, GMO products are not clear what effect they will have on human health in the long run. The second crop of corn is to be done, the growth of efficiency, the production of corn in the GAP region and so on. For reasons it is possible to increase production and export. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the measures needed to be taken by researching the mining accidents in Turkey, the Constitution of the 98th century, in order to remove the miners who lost their lives in the coal basin of Kahramanmarash-Afşin-Elbistan-Söllos. And the TBMM subcommittee 104 and 105. In accordance with the clause, we respectfully request and demand the opening of a parliamentary investigation. [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Mersin]] [[Kütahya]] [[Aydın]] [[Adana]] [[Adana]] [[Manisa]] [[Slap]] [[Manisa]] 10) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Inconceived]] [[Tekirdağ]] 13) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kastamon]] [[Mughle]] 20) Suleiman Nevzat Do Not Fear [[Isparta]] [[Adana]] Nine of our miners were killed in a cave-in in the Desertos coal basin on 10 February 2011, providing coal to the Afşin-Elbia thermal plant. The funerals of nine of our miners, who died in the cave-in, were still unaccounted for, after 312 days of upsetting Kahramanmarash and all of Turkey. The families of our miners patiently and hopefully await the exhumation of the funerals of their relatives. It's amazing that in our world, where science and technology are moving at almost a stunning rate, our nine miners have never been pulled out of the cave-in. Why haven't our miners ever been able to extract the cave-in from the ground? Is there a lack of technology? Or is the cost of that being calculated? When are we going to hand over our martyr miners to their families? All of this has become a subject of research. As with many businesses in our country, mining accidents often occur in business. Long working hours, low wages, unhealthy and insecure working conditions increase business accidents in our country. According to Labour Health and Occupational Safety Assembly data, 396 workers were killed in business accidents in Turkey in the first nine months of 2011, while 2,453 workers were injured. Business accidents, especially in Istanbul, Marseilles, Zonguldak, İzmir, Ankara, Adana, Eskişehir, Tekirdağ, Malatya, Bursa, Kolya and Kahramanmarash, are common in industrial centres and coal stoves in our provinces. Business accidents in our country often occur in mining, shipyards, construction, energy, metal, cement, seasonal agriculture, textiles, and leather businesses. In the mining sector, business accidents occur in our country at 4.5 times the level of European countries. The mining sector, which contributes substantially to the Turkish economy, should be restructured in the production of modern standards, especially in working conditions. The work that will be done in this direction will reduce the dents in the mines and prevent fatal accidents. Therefore, the Constitution of the 98th Constitution on the removal of the miners who lost their lives in the desert's coal basin from under the cave-in and the taking necessary precautions by researching the mining accidents that took place in our country. and 104 and 105 of the TBM Administration. A Parliamentary Research Commission shall be established under the clause. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Despite the fact that the quality of the roads in our country has been increased, we would like to investigate the reasons why there are no decreases in fatal and injured traffic accidents, to determine the impact of the socioeconomic structure with measures to be taken for non-accidental travel," we would like to propose and submit a parliamentary investigation under the grounds stated grounds that our Constitution should be opened in accordance with Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Erzurum]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] [[Mughle]] [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[Kütahya]] [[Kastamon]] 11) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Inconceived]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 17) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Adana]] Accidents that often cause death on our country's highways, especially on holiday holidays. A section of the news from the festival days has been constantly reported as accidents, and the number of dead and wounded are included under the name Bayram's balance sheet. According to statistics from the Security General Directorate in 2006, 125 of our citizens and 97 of our citizens on a 9-day holiday; 86 of our citizens on a five-day vacation in 2007; 64 of our citizens on a four-day vacation; 147 of our citizens on a nine-day vacation in 2008; 81 of our citizens on a five-day holiday in 2009; 147 of our citizens on a 9-day holiday holiday in 2010; 83 of our citizens on a five-day vacation have lost their lives in accidents. In 2011, accidents didn't stop, and in the 9-day holiday of Ramadan, 168 citizens lost their lives, and 752 of our citizens were injured. Again, on a five-day holiday, 61 of our citizens were killed, while 3,172 of our citizens were injured. The number of accidents reached 440,000 in 2002 increased to 621 thousand in 2005 and 1 million 104 thousand in 2010. There has been no increase in the number of deaths, but there has been a double increase in the number of injured in accidents. In 2002, the number of wounded was 116, while in 2010 the number was 211,000. Even if those who were injured in traffic accidents are cured by treatment, the psychological impact of their concussion can continue for years. In fatal and non-injured accidents, while committed to the Turkish nation's statement that "come into the future," which demonstrates its coherence, the post-accident bureaucratic process causes loss of labor, which is negative to the economy. Accidents within the city are causing blockages in the streets where traffic flow is intense. In any case, even those who have not been involved in the accident have lost time and waste of fuel due to their long-awaitment in traffic, and it is written in the loss of individuals and our national economy. In order to determine the reasons and consequences of all these problems, we propose the establishment and establishment of the Parliamentary Research Commission under Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of the Constitution, in order to determine the measures that must be taken. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There are two motions for genes. The motions have already been suppressed and distributed to the members. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister of the Constitution 98 and 99th of the Constitution on State Minister Bkent Arinc, on the charge that TRT and Anadolu Agency had failed to maintain neutrality in their broadcasts, failed to carry out its duties and transferred public resources to the parties. In accordance with the clauses, we would like to announce the opening of the Gensor on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. With all due respect. 132 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. "The autonomy and neutrality of news agencies who have been helped by the only radio and television agency established as a state's public policy is based on the autonomy and the neutrality of its publications." The sentence is in place. Turkey's Radio Television Law titled "The Purpose" 1st. The issue emphasises the autonomy and neutrality of the TRT. The framework clearly states that the definition and implementation of journalism of the TRT and Anadolu Agency should be neutral, in the Constitution and in the relevant law. However, the biased and political practices of these two institutions have reached extreme levels in recent years. Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc, who is responsible for the two institutions, has also tolerated and even supported these practices. It is against the law that the executives of these institutions use their institutions for personal gain and political manipulation to prevent citizens from acting as partisans by obstructing the freedom of neutral information. TRT is the only autonomous institution in Turkey that covers 80 liras of every $100 he spends with taxes collected from the public. Therefore, all parties and political parties should be treated equally and impartially without opposition. But TRT has become the trumpet of AKP power. TRT is a tool for not reporting, manipulating public opinion and improving the AKP's public image. The TRT broadcasts for hours on the activities of the ruling party, giving almost no part of the opposition. The AKP government restricts the TBRT 3's TBM broadcast to meet law talks at hours when TBM TV is not on the air, thus allowing the curfews and shortcomings involved in the laws to be removed from the public and to reduce the voice of the opposition. Unfortunately, it is said that the public broadcasters should be neutral and fair, as the Constitution and the law states, as Bulent Arinc himself stated. This entity is also another fact that other members of the TRT have been paid high salaries to various units of the TRT, including those in the immediate vicinity of Deputy Prime Minister Brent Arinc. On the other hand, internal productions on TRT channels are known to come to an end, and TRT is known to make programs available to outside agencies. According to the testimony of Mr. Arinc, 6,211 officers work at TRT, 7,46 staff under contract of 835. In this case, it is evident that the TRT personnel have not been taken full advantage of. Public resources are being squandered by the millions of dollars spent on TRT outside productions and by the work given to supporters. He is responsible for the mismanagement and biased publication of a network that has public broadcasting responsibility. In an interview published in a newspaper, we interviewed Ottoman Ocalan in response to a question directed to him by TRT General Director İbrahim Sahin (Abraham). It's in my drawer. We will publish it when the time and place is right, another indication of how desperate the situation was when the TRT fell into place. In addition, the TRT and Anadolu Agency have published a report on the issue of Murat Karayilan, the leader of the terrorist organization in Iran, which has been found to be untrue. TRT and Anadolu Agency are also responsible for the scandal related to the bomb-loaded car report. An interview with a violent terrorist such as Osman Ocalan and the announcement that the records will be explained when the time comes by being kept in the drawer clearly shows that TRT has become a psychological action tool and power has become a manipulation tool. As a result, his confidence in him was shaken and failed to carry out his duties and responsibilities. And 99. We demand and demand that the geneor be opened in accordance with Article 106 of the Articles of the TBMM. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the celebrations held by the public on October 29th Republican Day, the 98th and 99th anniversary of the Constitution on Interior Minister İdris Naim Şahin, the 98th and 99th of the Constitution, who have tried to prevent the use of the most basic freedoms, such as freedom of demonstration and freedom of travel, to direct and protect public officials who have inflicted violence on the people, to impose pressure on citizens who have adopted the basic principles of the Republic by using public power. We respectfully offer and supply the release of the gene. Many NGOs have filed a petition against Ankara Governorate 01,10,2012, dated 2012/1813. He issued a press statement in front of the TBMM building, where he later made a statement in order to appear before Ataturk. Ankara Governorate has announced that the event will not be allowed on the grounds that it is an act contrary to the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations, with its article dated 16,10,2012. The right of the Constitution to organise the meeting and demonstration march is 34. The article states that everyone has the right to hold an unarmed and non-aggressive meeting and demonstration march without prior permission. The joke considers the right to be limited. Therefore, the Ankara Governorate's article is undisputedly unconstitutional, illegal. Besides, the event requested in Ankara is not part of the demonstration and march, but part of the Republic holiday celebration and celebration. Despite this fact, the Minister of Interior has extended Ankara's banning attitude to the General Assembly in an effort to block the participation of our citizens outside Ankara. The buses of our citizens who wanted to go to Ankara from the cities outside Ankara have been stopped and buses are prevented for arbitrary reasons. The freedom of travel has been restricted in a way that does not search for martial law. The 23rd Amendment. After the decree that everyone has freedom of travel was issued, the provision that freedom of travel could be restricted by law in order to prevent criminal investigation and prosecution. The governorship's ban order and the Ministry of Interior's General Assembly of the Republic have been declared to be a crime in effect in the name of Ataturk. Those who wish to celebrate the political ruling Republic have acted with the admission of guilt, destroying the most basic rights and freedoms of our citizens. It has been revealed that the grounds of the governorship's alleged incident and the information the Prime Minister has expressed are incompatible with the facts, that there is no incident except the disproportionate force of the police. However, for citizens who have come to the Nation, the checkpoint has not been established, the security measures have not been taken. If there really is intelligence involved, the Home Secretary has compromised the safety of our citizens who were there that day by taking no precautions. The fact that our citizens participate in the event with their young children, the great participation of the elderly, reveals that none of our citizens have any intention of committing crimes. Our citizens, who have gathered with Turkish flags, the elderly, with the child hand in hand, have been subjected to the illegal and disproportionate intervention of the security forces. This violence is brutal, old and childless. While the police sprayed pepper spray and attacked our citizens, the Home Secretary inspected the area from the helicopter, led the incidents. Along with our citizens, lawmakers have been exposed to the police's indiscriminate use of force, and the Home Secretary of the Interior has not launched an investigation into law enforcement officers who have been choking the MP's throat. The assessment of the Republic Day celebrations as part of the crime is highly thought -- it is very thought -- that the political power, as if it were suppressing an attempt, intervenes in public celebrations aimed at securing the Republic. This also reveals the danger Turkey faces at the point where political power demonstrates its goals. To those who think differently than he does, pressure and violence are unique to dictatorial governments. On the grounds stated, we ask the High Council to open a gene for Minister of the Interior, Mr. İdris Naim Şahin. It has been presented to your knowledge. A proposal from the Justice and Development Party Group, which includes talks on whether the genes will be discussed today, will be processed shortly. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Tuesday (now) 20,11,2012, I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Charter. AK PARTY Group Deputy President In the section of the agenda, 342, 337, 339, 35, 219, 94, 106, 212, 213, 213, 216, 217 and 218 of the drafts of the legislation in the section "The Law Bills and Offers of Laws and Other Things From Commissions", this section is considered according to the order of 4, 5, 6, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 15, and 16th order of other tasks; The meeting on Tuesday (November 20th, 2012) of the number-one geneorary proposals (11/23 and 11/24) which have been issued under duress (today) will continue to work until Tuesday (November 20th, 2012) until the meeting of the general council's primary proposals on the basis of Article 99 shall be completed, as follows: 11/23 and 11/24. November 20, 2012, 5, 12, 19 and 26 December 2012, Tuesday and Wednesday, where verbal questions are not discussed; On Tuesday (December 25th), the meeting of other audit issues, which have not been discussed for one hour after the meeting of oral questions, is the discussion of the agenda's "Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions"; 4, 11, 18, and 25 December 2012, 15:00-20 in Tuesday's mergers. Between 00 hours; 5, 6, 12, 13, 19, 20, 26 and 27 December 2012, Wednesday and Thursday, 2400-20. Between 00 hours; On Wednesday (November 21st 2012) until the completion of talks on the 239th draft law in a merger; Tuesday, November 20th and 21st 2012, and Wednesday at 24 p.m. At 00 a.m., if the daily schedules are incomplete, the daily schedules will be completed; To continue his work, It's the 91th Amendment of the 337th Row bill. In accordance with the clause, it is considered the basic law, and its parts are in the form of the accompanying ruler, It's recommended. [[1/638]] 1. CHAPTER 1 - 30th Article 30 2. CHAPTER 31 - 56 Article 26 3. Episode 57 to 81 Article 25 4. Episode 82 to 105 Articles 24 5. CHAPTER 106 to 135th Articles 30 6. Episode 136 to 147 (144th article (a), (b) and (c) Temporarily 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, Six, seven, eight, nine, ten, including twenty-four. The first statement in favour of the Justice and Development Party's group proposal is from Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı. Here you go, Mr. Gardendoor.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0027par0398	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this is the first day of our work week. Have a good day at work, all of us. Yes, we have a group proposal, particularly a group proposal that regulates the working hours, but as we've done with the law, I'd like to present it to you, as I've been verbally informing the members of the group yesterday. Today, as you know, we're meeting with our Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Bulent Arinc, and Mr. Idris Naim Şahin, the Home Secretary of the Interior. Again, there's a clause in our group proposal for the withdrawal of legislation. In this is the Law on Late or Part-Employment of Court Decisions with the length of Judiciary Time 342, and the Act on Capital Market 337 for Compensation. We also planned to discuss international contracts 339, 35, 61, 219, 94, 106, 213, 212, 216, 217 and 218 rows this week. In the framework we have implemented so far, we consider it appropriate and recommend that we remove verbal questions from all Wednesdays until the end of December, and on Tuesdays, after one hour of verbal questions, we do not do other inspections. It's 15:00-20 on Tuesdays until the end of December of our work hours. 00, Wednesdays and Thursdays, 2:00, 20. We recommend that it be set at 00. On Wednesday, November 21, 2012, we will resume the talks of Bill 239, where we left off tomorrow, and we demand that Act 337 of the Capital Market Law, which I have just mentioned, be discussed as the basic law. I wish all my friends good work again. I'd like our group proposal to be accepted. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0028par0406	Thank you, Mr. Gardendoor. The first word against the Justice and Development Party's group's proposal is from Mr. Muharrem İnce. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0029par0410	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, we weren't going to talk about the group proposal today, but at the group meeting, Mr. Prime Minister, a group of vice presidents roared like lions on the floor of the House, saying, "To hell with Esad," and then a CHP delegation went and took a picture with the man the group's vice president called hell. As far as we're concerned, a corrupt focus that captured our journalists and crashed our plane has to be just as much against the CHP as it is against us. CHP has not refused to stand up for Turkey's enemies. CHP is doing cheap politics as usual... now, when the Prime Minister says that, of course, there's no talking behind his back. It's not a press conference. You have to come to the people's podium and answer to the Prime Minister. One, when he spoke of me earlier, said that he was not the head of theCHP. At least today, he called me deputy president of the group. I thank him for remembering my mission. Second, there is no letter "Ha" in the alphabet, there is no "CeHaPe" in the alphabet, it's "CHP" in the alphabet. Let him know that there is no letter. And a third, there's a difference between a photo of our friends and a photo of the Prime Minister. The first is a family photo, the other is a photo of the rescue of a journalist. [[The preacher started showing pictures in his hand.]] Look, who took these pictures? Prime Minister, Assad, ladies. Who took this happy painting? Prime Minister and Assad at the gate of the plane. Mr. President and Assad. Look at that pose, Mr. Prime Minister and Assad in the royal seats. Who took these, who took these? Let's get on with it. Who took this? The Bosporus Bridge in the back, who shot this? That's not enough. If you want a photo, I'll show it to the Prime Minister. A photograph of how he bowed before the Kenan Universe, a photograph of how he was wrapped up with Gaddafi (Gaddafi) under it, a friendly hand with Mubarak (Mubarak), and a picture with Assad (with Assad) at the bottom. How jealous is this, how jealous it is to have my fellow lawmakers take these photos and then do what the government can't do with human values and save that journalist and take a picture with Assad? Let him look at these photos.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0030par0417	Mr. Drift, please.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0029par0418	Now, the Prime Minister says, "If we're going to die, let's die like men." I say to the Prime Minister, "You're telling the truth. If we're going to die, let's die like men, and if we're going to do politics, let's do politics like men." [[Applause from CHP rows]] Again, you will have the Jewish Courage Prize on your neck, and then you will affraise Israel. You'll get through this. First you're gonna take that medal off your neck. The Prime Minister explains: "The happiest day of my life is the day I went to Palestine on top of the tanks." He said, "God says, but he couldn't say it at the press conference."
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0031par0421	How many times has he told you?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0029par0422	You should have told me.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0031par0423	We've heard it 10 times.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0029par0424	Look, my dear friends, there's something about the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0031par0425	Davos said it, everyone heard it, Mr. Tünce.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0029par0426	The Prime Minister either speaks from behind the dead or speaks from behind the people in the wheelchair. Either the Prime Minister speaks against Ismet Pasha, or he speaks against Sharon, who is in a wheelchair. In the past, the Prime Minister said, "To hell with Esad. To hell with Esad. To hell with Esad," he said, at the group meeting. Can you say, "To hell with America?" And I came to this stand one day later, and I said, "To hell with Assad, and to hell with Obama." And I said, "Can I say you?" The Prime Minister hasn't said a word since. Now I say, from the stand of the nation, to hell with dictators -- whoever persecutes their people, whether it's Flame, Sunni, Muslim, Christian, Buddhist -- all dictators! To hell with the imperialists who tried to design this world, who slaughtered Muslims in Iraq and bombed mosques in Iraq. (CHP) I say this; can the Prime Minister come and say, "To hell with the imperialists from this bench?"
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0032par0429	That's what he says.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0029par0430	Does he have the heart? He's gonna come in here, he's gonna repeat what I said. Thank you all. I know the Prime Minister can't do that. The Prime Minister only talks behind our backs. He'll come to the stand and say, "This way." Did you or did you not pray for the safe return of American soldiers when 1.5 million Muslims were killed in Iraq?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0033par0433	We didn't; tell the truth.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0029par0434	That's what the Prime Minister said.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0034par0435	To hell with collaborators.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0029par0436	What happens if I prove it? What will you do if I bring you the recording, the clippings? What are you going to do? But we pray for the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, his comrades and martyrs, the difference between us. Thank you all very much, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0035par0439	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about bullying.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0036par0440	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You have two minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0035par0445	Thank you. Congressmans, Mr. Slim has a habit of making polemics, and we all love it, and I love it, and I listen to him, but there are flaws. There's a mistake, like timing, when you're showing pictures. Here, in the past, it makes photographs of the Prime Minister, or his wife, as if they had been photographed with Assad, or with his wife today, and it makes you think that if a person is killing his people and not in the past, they think that I should continue to befriend him based on my past friendship.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0037par0447	He was killing in the past, in the past. You're ignoring what he did to the Kurds!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0035par0448	There's a logic set up like this. When he took those pictures, Prime Minister Assad and Assad did not kill the people...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0037par0449	Of course you don't know how he tortures Kurds!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0035par0450	He wasn't killing children, he wasn't killing women, he wasn't killing young people. You have to choose your side. Thank you, your congressman friends have contributed to our journalist friend's arrival here and his freedom. Thank you, we're being humane, but those MP friends of yours should have taken a picture along with the blood spilled on the street. That's how you choose your side. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Ence, you said, "To hell with Esad" from here; it doesn't solve the problem. You know what would solve the problem? What do you say about the young, old, old, woman, man, nobody, those people who were killed in the street, that's the problem? We're asking you to answer that. And I'll tell you something else: Mr. Tül, you referred to Mr. Prime Minister's use of letters about CHP, you said there was no letter. I want to ask you now, and I'll make a deal with you. Do you call it "KedeVe" or "KedeVe"? Can you tell me that?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0038par0455	It depends on the times!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0035par0456	Two is more important; since there are no letters in the alphabet, the third article of our charter says "AK PARTI" instead of the AKP...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0039par0458	But there's a letter.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0035par0459	Tell me...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0039par0460	Look, there's a letter, but there's no letter.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0035par0461	Can you tell me? Tell him I'll give you a round of applause.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0039par0463	Ayþe Nur Hanım, there is no letter "ha" but there is a letter "ka"
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0040par0467	In favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, the final statement belongs to Mr. Hüseyin Sahin. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0041par0469	Thank you, Mr. President. The group brought by our Justice and Development Party has made a commitment in favor of our proposal. I, for one, celebrate the Children's Rights Day of the world, before I begin my words, and celebrate the coming Teachers' Day of our children's Day, in the hope of leaving the world a more habitable world for our future children. In our group's proposal, we would like to propose a meeting of the motions for the geneorization of our deputy prime minister, Mr. Bulent Arinc and Home Secretary, Mr. İdris Naim Şahin. Also, we have a proposal to move the bill forward. Again, we propose that international contracts, which are the demands of our President of the Grand National Assembly and our Minister of Youth and Sports, be brought to the top of the agenda. In the frame we've implemented so far, we propose that we remove verbal questions on all Wednesdays by the end of December, remove other audits after an hour of verbal questions on Tuesdays, and change the working hours from Tuesdays between 3:00 and 8:00 p.m., Wednesdays and Thursdays between 2:00 and 8:00 p.m. by the end of December. November 21st, which is tomorrow -- and Wednesday -- we propose that until the meeting of Law Bill 239 -- be sued for the work until the completion of the talks of the Bill of Laws, and that the Capital Market Act, again, shall be considered as the main law. The AK PARTY states that we are in favor of the group's proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0042par0475	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. The final word against the Justice and Development Party's proposal belongs to Isparta MP Nevzat Korkmaz. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0043par0479	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as we all know, is a great body in which legislature activities are being carried out. Of course, when legislatures are being carried out, there is also an agenda for which legislation, which law will be passed to the General Assembly, and which may be discussed first. This agenda is also being set up by the Council of Counsellors, the chairman of a parliamentary chair, with the members of the group's vice presidents in it, according to our Interior Charter. There's got to be a compromise there. My fifth year at the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and for five years as group manager, I've occasionally attended these Council of Counsellors meetings, attended them, but I don't see any compromise being reached. Again, as with the General Assembly, AKP's uncompromising stance continues on the Council of Counsellors. If I don't compromise here, I'll get what I want by trusting my majority in the General Assembly. Again, we see this example now, a Council of Counsellors brought it in. The rights to control the opposition due to the Civil Code have been suspended again. Sir, verbal questions have come to our attention that there will be no control rights to be discussed after verbal questions. Dear friends, I believe the Turkish Grand National Assembly is not only a place where the government's laws are needed, but also an institution controlled by the opposition, but that you mean the right of control of the opposition, and that only the government's demands are being met. Dear friends, you've set another set of hours. According to these times, you decide that some of the dates are at 8:00 p.m., some of the dates are until the end. Friends, the Civil Code and the Constitution order that the budget be discussed in the General Assembly starting in December, which means there is no other alternative, otherwise we will face a budgetless Republic of Turkey. We don't have the luxury of hanging budget talks, delaying them, it has to be completed on time and schedule. So, friends, today you are wasting the time of the Assembly's General Assembly on a decision you cannot enforce. I don't want to make the same mistake too much, so I don't need to say too much about this decision that can't be implemented. However, I would like to take this occasion to celebrate Saturday's 24th November Teacher's Day on behalf of the National Movement Party. Again, I'm celebrating Children's Rights Day, and I'd like to share with you the system of all our children and children: You will always be the leaders of Turkey in the future, you will make these decisions, you will decide the future. They object to our promise, they say: "This is a fabricated reason for children not to be heard today. No, we want to talk today, we want to join the administration today. Let me share this with the General Assembly. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0044par0488	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0045par0489	Mr. President, I apologize. Our orator friend just made a mockery of us through the photos, referring to us. According to 69, I'd like to respond to this taunt, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0046par0491	I told you about the photos.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0047par0492	It wasn't really about you, but here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0045par0496	Yes, sir, thank you. Now, look, dear friends, a journalist who's been imprisoned in Syria for three months, we've fought to bring our friend back to his country, his family, his children, with absolutely no political concern, and we've brought him here. You know very well that it is not possible for this friend to be brought here in Syria right now but to meet with the legitimate President. For three months, you've left this friend -- you're in power -- to your own destiny. He applied to you, you didn't meet the requirements, and the State Department has a written answer, and we can't do anything about it. This friend applied to us, and we went to fulfill our duty to humanity and our parliamentary duties and responsibility. We've always said we don't want to do politics over this, but you're persistently trying to draw it into a political field. Sir, you've been photographed. Now, I'm asking you: what Mr. Prime Minister calls my brother, a president who's on vacation with him in Bodrum, who's meeting with his family, and who's now legitimate. We asked for the journalist, so let's take a picture, if you like. When he says, "No, we're not taking a picture with you." [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0048par0502	Is Assad a legitimate president?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0045par0503	Well, you're talking about the blood on the street. Look, 10,000 soldiers died today in Syria. These are the children of the Syrian people and the deaths of 10,000 soldiers, and I want to say that the Syrian policy followed by AKP is responsible. If you can afford it, go to Syria, and listen to the people who are there, and the people that you are defending. Look, we took that picture, I'll send it to you. In that photo...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0049par0506	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0045par0507	While we were waiting at the airport, we encountered the funeral of 15 soldiers killed by the Al Qaeda militants you call freedom fighters, who we have photographed, and I will send him to you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0049par0511	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0050par0512	Is Assad a legitimate president?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0045par0513	You can't discuss his legitimacy! That's not for you to decide!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0049par0514	That's it, two minutes. Thank you, thank you. I submit to you the motion of the Justice and Development Party Group: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Under Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since Act 2/30 is not discussed in the Commission in 45 days, I would like to submit the requirement for a direct agenda of Article 37 of the Civil Charter. Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt as the bidder. Mr. Reminder, here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0051par0531	Mr. President, dear friends, I have made a commitment to the union of pensioners and widows and orphans. I salute you all. Dear friends, there are around 10 million 428000 pensioners in Turkey. Our retired citizens, unfortunately, live in poverty and misery. The government's promises never fixed the pensioner's back. The pensioner's waist is always crooked, retired, always running around the doors, living under minimum wage. Now, we'd like to add widows and orphans to the bill we gave the pensioners. There's a law in 2004, there's a law for the union of pensioners, but we want pensioners as well as widows and orphans to be unionists. You know how it is with widows and orphans. Now, they get a very low salary, and when there's no income, they're really miserable, but if there's unionization with these widows and orphans, then they're democratically seeking their rights. In that sense, I believe that we, the Grand National Assembly, must give this union to these widows and orphans. Because unionization means people looking for their rights. And the widows and orphans, you know, they call it the right to be an orphan. Let not the right of an orphan be disputed in the assembly of the great nation, and let no one take away his orphan's rights. And if any one eats it, Allah knows it. Dear friends, an organized society is a society that always seeks its justice. Unfortunately, pensioners, over 10 million pensioners, are collecting garbage in the queues today, from Edirne to Ardahan. So I see on TV -- and you see -- most of the pensioners, especially when they're retired from minimum wage -- they get $300,400, and if they're retired from BUG-KUR, they get about $600, and the pensioner gets $800, 900. Dear friends, in today's environment, no one is able to make a living. I believe pensions should be raised, and widows and orphans should also be considered absolutely, and widows and orphans should also be given the right to unionise. Now, dear friends, of course there's agriculture and livestock in my area, but right now there's a natural slaughter. There is a natural massacre in Çat village in Hanak district of Ardahan Province. There's a dam built there. With the dam, all nature was slaughtered, the peasant was given promises, no promises were fulfilled. The villager and the company that's building the dam right now are facing each other. They've entered into something so illegal that they don't have a position development status, so they don't have plans to implement it. On the day before, the members of the Ardahan County General Assembly went, and they saw it in its place, and they cancelled them. Now, dear friends, as a government here, you go, brother, build a dam or something, you say you need electricity. But how do you send a citizen without infrastructure? Now, the citizen went there, tried to do it, no zoning, no position zoning, no application zoning. The peasant faced the peasant, the peasant was devastated, the trout streams were turned upside down -- we have so many beautiful red-spoted trout -- those streams have been turned upside down, and unfortunately, it's really, really bad. There, at Chad, the citizens and contractors are now in conflict. The contractor out there took advantage of certain people, never made any commitments to the villagers. And that's what I'm here to warn you about, and this law is accepted, and the pensioner and widow is also offering the protection of the rights of orphans, and I'm offering respects.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0052par0538	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0053par0540	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a solemn pledge to the pensioners and to the union of their widows and orphans, and I salute you worthy members of our High Council. We've retired for years serving his country and his nation, left his knowledge, savings and experience at his institution, or at his workplace, but we're sadly isolated from the community by sitting in parks and coffeehouse corners, hoping to contribute to his country, make his profession active. However, our experienced pensioners, who have spent years serving this country, should be encouraged again to perform active tasks within the community. We have 10.5 million retired citizens in Turkey. Unfortunately, in our country, our pensioners have not been given enough attention. And with the Social Security Act issued, no improvement has been brought to the pensioner to relieve the pensioners. The living conditions of our pensioners are really difficult. In these conditions, not a single person is able to cope with problems. The protection of our pensioners and their widows and orphans, like active employees, the development of health, social, cultural relations, is imperative that their monthly salaries exceed living standards. In order to do so, initiatives must be made. Congressmans, it's been very difficult to retire in our country because today, insecure, subcontractorization, lack of bonuses, irregular work, layoffs have imagined retirement. Besides, when our pensioners' dreams of retiring come true and retire, their human rights, such as economics, health, education, transport, are not enough to provide them with their lives. Thus, it is increasingly difficult for our pensioners to live humanely. Change in healthcare, decrease in salaries, increase in transport, increase in energy make the living conditions of our pensioners increasingly problematic. The most productive days of his life, the pensioners who have spent their time working, producing, serving, I have eliminated my hope, I have hung up my anklet, I must be saved from his mental state and his mood. 90% of the coffeehouses are filled with retired citizens. He's holed up there, playing his game with the idea that he doesn't have anywhere else to go as a mission. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to give you a very striking example. Please listen carefully. I'd like to pass along the conversation, the interview with a pensioner I met in Tripoli. He said: "Dear Regent, we have worked for many years; we have raised and raised children; we have not eaten, we have not drunk, we have fed our family; we have eaten cabbage, we have eaten potatoes from our village; and when we retire, we love grandchildren, we spend the rest of our lives talking with friends; and God has blessed us to retire. I wish we weren't. After two or three months of retirement, we started to get bored and have trouble making ends meet. We have nowhere to go. We go out of the house in the morning, to the coffee shop, and if the weather is good, those who know about Trabzon know about it -- we go to the square park. But we're getting out of the house and we're getting a full ride, and the return fee is $3.00. We're having tea in coffee or in the park. He also buys tea because of the first hospitality, and if we drink ten teas, we pay $5.50. Well, we're old, and we often go to the bathroom, and when we go three times, we pay $1.50 for the toilet. In short, we're having bagels for the day. And 50 cents of bagels. Our total spending is $10, and that comes to $300 a month. How am I supposed to live on the conditions of my life, if I pay $900 in rent, or in the kitchen? Wouldn't it make your conscience hurt? After my fellow lawmakers retire, unfortunately, it is wrong and unfair to cut a 15 per cent bonus under the name of social security support, which we can call a 15 per cent bonus, which we can call the pension bonus, rather than supporting our retired citizens, who want to contribute independently to their own account, by opening and running a grocery store, grocery store, coffeehouse, and coffeehouse. This mistake and injustice must be removed or made useful. For example, these premiums should be reflected in the pensions of working pensioners at a certain rate each year, but best of all, they should be removed. In addition to all the illegal negativity of our pensioners, it's also a fantasy that our employees are retired, and unfortunately, people who are waiting to retire are living in age, and especially our teachers, women, who have served twenty-years, and our teachers who have spent twenty-five years in men are waiting for age, and we have to solve their problems. I hereby say that in these difficult living conditions, union organizations must be enforced against our pensioners and their widows and orphans in order to protect and improve their economic and social rights and interests. With all due respect, I salute the esteemed MPs of the High Council.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit01spe0054par0550	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0054par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 26th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We move on to the special agenda's part of the agenda. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, we are starting talks on the opening of a geneor on behalf of Group Deputy Chairs Mr. Oktay keral and Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır. Mr. Mehmet Şandir (TRT) and Anadolu Agency have failed to provide neutrality in its publications, failed to carry out its responsibility for the mission and transferred its public resources to the parties (11/23). Government? Here. The motion is read in today's merger, so I'm not having it re-readed. According to Article 99 of the Constitution, the meeting will be promised to a member of the motion holders, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a Prime Minister or minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motion holder, 20 minutes for groups and government. Now, I'm reading the names of the distinguished members. (11/23) I'm reading the speakers on whether or not the primary ensorship motion is on the agenda. I'll read them in order and then invite them over. The motion holder is Mr. Lütfü Türkkan. On behalf of the groups: Şırnak on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group MP Hasip Kaplan; MP Muharrem İnce for the People's Party Group of Cumhuriyet; MP Muharrem İnce for the People's Party Group; Antalya MP Mehmet Günal for the Justice and Development Party Group; Bartın MP Mr Yilmaz Tunc for the People's Party Group; Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc for the government. Mr. Lütfü Türkkan. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0055par0017	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the National Party of Action about Vice Prime Minister Bulent Arinc, the 98th and 99th amendment of the Constitution, to open the geneor under the 106th Articles of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I salute your high council. On the institutional website of TRT. As the only public broadcast agency in Turkey, which has an impartial public legal personality under Radio Television Law 2954, the neutrality of our publications is fundamental. According to Article No. 2954 of the Turkish Radio Television Law, these are the basiss of the broadcast of the Turkish Radio Television Foundation. The bottom article says: ▪ To make sufficient broadcasts on issues that may interest the public to be healthy and free; not to broadcast one-way, not to hold sides, and not to be a tool for the interests of a political party, the interests of the group, the faith and the ideas. So, what's among the literature principles of the Anadolu Agency? He says that his publications do not have a demeaning, humiliating, encouraging quality and style of discrimination that undermines the principles of equality and justice. Unfortunately, the biased and political practices of both the TRT and the Anadolu Agency have reached the extreme stage of this period. Do you know what happened at the Anadolu Agency? 201 people quit their jobs at the Anadolu Agency. They drove the presidential correspondent to Uganda, then to Somalia. What's he doing? In the end, he gives up, quits without compensation. It's not over. The workers assumed that the union government had volunteered to change, but they were made to sign for resignations that would have led to the union's loss of power, so they were deceived. Now, what is Mr. Minister Arinc doing with another broadcaster, TRT? TRT is not reporting, it is acting as a tool to improve the public image of the Justice and Development Party, to promote it. Look, I'm going to give you a very close example: Last week, when Lieutenant Lieutenant Jakub Çınar, who was killed in Kocatepe, counted the people attending the TRT funeral, he specifically did not count the president of the National Movement Party, Mr. Doctor State Bahçeli. If you want to make the TRT the television of the Justice and Development Party, remove the word "Turkey." Its name is state television, but TRT only works for Prime Minister Erdogan and the Justice and Development Party. So the TRT has become the trumpet of AKP power. If we call it that, we don't say it wrong. Whenever you open the TRT, you get a lot of news about the ruling party. Are the opposition's actions or explanations given at the same time? Of course not. In Turkey, the only private institution that collects 80 liras of every $100 he spends is the TRT. Therefore, all parties and political parties should be treated equally and impartially without opposition. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the TRT and Anadolu Agency, have signed a number of false news reports and false last-minute news in the past. Remember, do you remember the fiasco in the news of the bomb-loaded car, which was the last minute that Murat Karayilan, the leader of the terrorist organization, was captured in Iran? Not finished; the Supreme Prosecutor has learned from TRT's last-minute news that he was being detained while sitting in the home of Honorary Prosecutor Sabih Kanadoğlu. Somehow, TRT's expert correspondents got past everyone who knew everything before, or someone served them to TRT. And here's to another grave painting on TRT. I'd like to get your attention on this particular matter. Although thousands of staff were employed in this institution, almost no program could be completed. TRT has almost all of its programs on the outside. Mr. Secretary Arinc, you yourself have stated that there are 7,046 employees working at the TRT, 6,211 officers, 835 contracts. So, what's TRT doing with so many casts? He spends millions of Turkish liras on outside productions. TRT spent 477m Turkish liras on external productions in 2011 alone. If you have so many staff, then why are you making these productions out, Mr. Secretary? It's actually a matter of transferring public resources to a particular interest group. And we can't do without asking, of course, if all the staff you're running at TRT really can't do business, or if their ability and professional formations aren't enough, or if you don't trust them, which one? A network with public broadcasting responsibility and expenses taken over by society can't be so badly managed. Such a television cannot be the television of the Republic of Turkey. I would like to end my words with the following words stated in the Constitution and in the law, in which Mr. Arinc put it: ▪ Public publishing organizations must be impartial and fair. I salute the great Parliament.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0056par0030	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0057par0034	Mr. President, I've been promised on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group due to the nationalist Movement Party's geneor for Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc. I salute you all. I mean, honestly, it's not like it's a gene question in Congress. We see it's about the Deputy Prime Minister, everyone's calm, even the desks are empty. And with a little generic inflation, it's no longer effective, my friends. Whether it's true, whether it's right, whether it's wrong, it's a different matter, but it's one of the most important mechanisms in the control mechanism. Now, when it comes to TRT, the Anadolu Agency, of course, everyone has a lot to say about it. But there is a fact that whoever was in power used the TRT (TRT) as a trumpet, used the Anadolu Agency as he wanted, became a staff, and used it against his opponents, as he would have wanted in the past days -- there were no more private televisions. It's a fact. There's no power here that says "I didn't do it." So I came out like a white spoon and ran it properly in the past. There are principles of TRT, Anadolu Agency, RTÜK. Independence, equality. No one can say that. But there are some issues that need to be focused on. One is the subject of a live broadcast, which I believe is the subject of a decision beyond Prime Minister Arinc, which is a decision made by the government, perhaps by the party, along with the MYK. And we don't think that's true. So it's 2:00. We say it's against democracy to turn down the voice, to stop the opposition from speaking to the public on this stand, as it has prevented the public from receiving information. In particular, parties like us... who could barely come to Parliament under independent conditions... without any help from the Treasury... when it was taken into consideration in the media area of the parties that formed a group -- including censorship, suppression -- it was important for us to express ourselves, our views in these kind of live publications. In fact, I'll tell you one of those polls that's been done. Two televisions were watched at most in the east and southeast, one was Roj TV and one was Parliament TV. But after Parliament turned off their live TV broadcasts, we shut down their ratings, lost their ratings. Now, I'd like to give you an example or two here. Of course, those numbers are sad numbers. I'm just going to give you a very concrete, three-month figure, and I'm going to talk about very concrete numbers. On October 1, 2011, December 31, 2011, we published three months, net, political parties, at TRT. This digital recording analysis and archive system have been scanned from TRT1 to TRT News channels. We've uncovered the deadlines for the political parties whose group is in parliament. Look, the results are stunning. In this three-month period, the AK PARTY is 24 hours and 46 minutes and 15 seconds. It's not Mashallah? Main opposition party 3 hours 38 minutes 8 seconds, MHP 49 minutes 27 seconds, Peace and Democracy Party only 18 minutes 45 seconds.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0058par0041	A very equal share, equal!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0057par0042	There's a bit of mercy missing out here. Believe me, turn on the Roj TV, listen to the news of the AK PARTY, and it folds it up. Now, there's a problem of conscience here, there's a problem of justice, there's a tax problem. Now, you're getting electricity, you're getting money, taxes from a citizen; 80 percent are coming out of a citizen's pocket; if the citizens' representatives can't benefit at that rate, there's a serious injury there. Well, then, my advice is that they've privatized the whole thing to the AK PARTY government, and they'll privatize TRT, sell it, and so will he. Oh, you're gonna say it, right? So it's public, journalism, you know, government, something else that we don't understand, we just don't understand. Look, there are major news bulletins in Kurdish, Anadolu Agency is not watching; there is TRT Shesh, but there are special considerations for the Interior Minister's statements, some statements against him, but Diyarbakır Security Directorate is also sitting, getting private jobs, keeping their reports, sending them to RTÜK. To ban some channels, and to shut them down, it was Gün TV. It was for other televisions broadcasting in the region. Well, does the Chief Constable have a protocol in RTÜK? No. Does he have a partnership? No. Is he on duty? No. Anyway, brother, I don't know, but RTOK has one phone, so now, this phone is very simple. If you look at it this way, every citizen can call and complain. It says: there's discrimination here, there's humiliation there, there's inquiry there, it's about shows, it's about things. So far, we've looked at it, we've done research, interesting things came up. Look, the only Turkey, the Sakarya Fırat, the Valley of the Wolves, the Immortal Heroes, all demeaning different ethnic structures and beliefs, especially Kurds. Today is the month of battle. He humiliates the flames, he humiliates the minorities. Such an approach... give the government his own money, let him go, he's insulting his fellow citizens. That kind of publishing policy doesn't exist anywhere in the world. Now, it's no use doing these kinds of shows in private, scratching the nationalism, scratching the vein, turning the people against each other, turning them against each other. Where's the neutrality, where's the truth, where's the truth now? The law says that political parties and democratic groups cannot be one-way and one-sided. I've given you the results of the numbers: my brother, 24 hours and 46 minutes to the AK PARTY, 18 minutes to us, 45 seconds. I mean, could it be such an unfair sense of governance? I'm questioning this, so Mr. Arinc instructed you to do such a broadcast, not to take the BDP people... As for Mr. Arinc's personality and as for his thinking, act like this to that TRT administration. There was absolutely no instruction. I parked my car in front of the Istanbul TRT building. It's an open parking lot, so you take the receipt, you let it go. Besides, it's not special, not because it's my congressman's vehicle. Private security officer, I'm in charge of the park. A man came. Yes.....you can't park here. He told me. He recognized me, and there's a Clave card on the car. Why? I'm the head of security here. I quit, I get it when I want it, and if anything happens, I say it's your fault, and I come out because all 20 of the staff who worked there were familiar. I know that this man did not act this way by the order of Mr. Arinc. Again in TRT, a lot of production companies were paid to do Kurdish soap operas, artists came, things came. There's an intermediary firm. How many times have you paid, where have you paid? We didn't get the result. Now, when we look at these applications... and we look at this. You know, basic language education... is one of the basic demands of defence debates in the native language and hunger strikes today, but in Turkey, we see that there has been a very serious struggle on this subject for over a hundred years. In fact, education in the main language is in the SHP report in the 89s, and later in the 92 reports. Careful, I mean, there's no AK PARTY at the time, but as a social democrat, the SHP takes it to its own reports at that time, but we're getting to a different point today. We haven't learned anything. TRT Şesh is supposedly broadcasting in Kurdish as TRT Shaş. As we look at it, it's changed since before its publication policy, and it's started broadcasting according to the broadcast and propaganda of a congregation, the world TV. And for example, it's a tradition in Cizre; we do five days every year, Kurdish festivals only in the native language. Art, theatre, symposium, poetry, it's all done. One day we didn't see the reporter of TRT Shesh. No, because it's not in the interest. As they say, we speak the language. We don't have names in Turkey. For example, there are TRT Arabs, there are TRT Avaz, there are 50 publications in the foreign language, but there are no Kurds, there are no TRT Shesh. Why? He thinks that the government will manage the situation, not the Kurd, but the TRT Shesh.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0059par0050	It's Kurdish!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0057par0051	It's six digits, Latin numerals, digits, notice it's six. Look, I'll tell you something else: the power says, clearly, it's the living language. What languages? We opened the Living Languages Department at Artuklu University. What languages? Living languages. What languages do they live in? Darling, here's Kurmanci, Zazaki, Çerçeçe, Albanian, Bosnian, Arabic. Oh, brother, that's the living language. It comes to the law, to the government's bill, the language that he can speak; it comes to the council's bench, where all the stenographers are called unknowable languages; the private authority goes to the court, and the private authority in the court is the unknown language. Now, look, it's the 21st century, it's the century, we've already spent time making fun of each other about the most basic human rights. It's a heavy bill, it's a very painful bill. The Middle East is boiling. Look at what happened in Syria, what happened in Palestine, what happened yesterday in Iraq, what happened in Iran, what happened in Turkey. Without saying the living language, without naming it, it will be removed if you publish a publication of Kurdish by the Prime Minister's discretion alone, if you do not bring the constitutional guarantee. Why? It disappears in a change of management. Now, the Samsunspor-Diyarbakirspor match was to be played. TRT Shesh said: I will publish in Kurdish. But Samsunspor opposed it. Can you imagine? And it was taken from here, taken to another channel, made in Turkish. Can't my brother say "gol" in his native language, so he can't say "gol" in his Kurdish language? I mean, for God's sake, don't! Now, look, that's not all; art, culture, everywhere. Yesterday, the Ministry of Culture had a budget. Melaye Ahmed-i is on the couch in Kurdish. Well, the x, the w... Look, the letter "Q" is not allowed, so it's read. None of the stenographers can write here right now because it's the regulation that was instructed to do so, but TRT is using Shesh, and it's facto. What's it like? He's on TV, and he's got a show. I mean, we're having a very strange language mix-up here. No living language. If there is a language, there is a people, and that people live that language, sometimes thousands, sometimes hundreds of thousands, sometimes millions. In the Middle East, Kurdish people are millions. Look, in Solomoniye, in Erbil, in Hewler, in Zaho, in Duhok, in all of them, you see their universities, they have their high schools, they have their cultural centers. So, to train a language, to teach its own education, to publish it, to use it, to have equal rights with a Kurdish brother -- as Mr. Arinc said -- a Turkish brother -- is the reality of this country, this is it. If we get past this discrimination, we'll make peace. If we get past this discrimination, we'll call it what it is. If we can overcome this discrimination, we can find his democratic and political method, we can solve it, we can solve it together. Here, we can do this by talking. There's another reality, of course, which is that the numbers in the Anadolu Agency have been crazy lately. Mr. Arinc explained: pensions, compensations, everything is very good. Some very serious segments have been involved here. We're looking, like, from the newspaper and everything. Now, we're also paying attention to the recruitment of these staffs; they're being picked up, especially from the advocacy and marginal, radical, fundamental sections. Look, I want to get your attention. At the same time, when chosen, there are some organizations that we know who can do whatever they can against their opponent, lie, manipulate, break the rules of the press, violate the rules of morality, break the freedom of the press, let there be a mud trail, let there be a trail of horses, let there be some organizations that we know, all of you know. God bless you, mind. These are starting to appear on private planes, so notice, the Prime Minister's plane used to have one in it, three in it, five out, and numbers are starting to increase. Now, there's a lot of sins in this mother tongue thing here. You can't properly process a culture. You can't teach children at TRT Sevish. Can you imagine, the kids don't have programs to watch? So there's a process that only the government, the government, publishes in the ways they want, in the ways they want. These things have to change. This is, in terms of the gene, is this a matter of geneability? No, we look at it this way: at the beginning of what we're looking at, as Mr. Arinc said, the Kurds must be given all rights, including primary language education. Whatever a Turk has rights, the Kurds must have the same rights. This is where we say peace and brotherhood and equality and justice go. We salute you all. Notice, my friend, that we are not on the side of this geneflation inflation; we're telling the truth, that's the case. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0060par0061	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Yalova MP Muharrem İnce. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0061par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute you all. Of course, if we read the Constitution, if we read the established law of TRT, we will understand that TRT will have to be autonomous and neutral. But he has no autonomy, no neutrality. His experienced employees were either threatened or encouraged. A staff has been formed from the media, from AKP's advisers, ministers' advisers, especially Mr. Arinc. In fact, it was so advanced that the Director General of the TRT defended it with an ad for the newspaper that, through the law, I became a member of the court. The interesting thing is, in the Court's report, investigate. You have appointed the person who is called to be acting as a paralegal. I'm afraid you haven't answered three questions in three months. You divided the TRT employees by the TRT people and ours by the people. Every citizen, who pays an electric bill in the TRT, has a right. Look, I'm a friend of yours who was also present in the AKP's 22nd term Parliament. The most important thing you cared about in those days was the Emergency Action Plan. I'm reading from your Emergency Action Plan on January 3, 2003: The TRT share will be removed gradually for the sale of electricity prices, and we will do it three or three times. It's January 3, 2003. You haven't done it in ten years in three months. You've increased the TRT share in 2004 plus the bandrol fee 329 million, 1 billion 36 million in 2011. You've tripled what you said you'd lift in three months at the end of your ten-year power. You got the money from the citizen, you got the AKP propaganda, you made the AKP horn. Now, look, 2011, the last three months, I'm saying TRT 1. AKP 24 hours 46 minutes 15 seconds news, CHP 3 hours 38 minutes 8 seconds news, which is 8 times more news than AKP CHP. TRT News: AKP 137 hours 18 minutes and 14 seconds have been reported, CHP 13 hours 57 minutes and 31 seconds have been reported, so there have been 10 times more news than AKP CHP. On 16 November 2011, I am on the basis of only one day: AKP 240 minutes of news, Republican People's Party 8 minutes and 53 seconds of news, so on 16 November 2011, the AKP was 30 times more news than CHP. On November 11, 2012 -- look, it's very interesting -- we have 17 martyrs in Diyarbakir. TRT broadcasts the funeral live, names of those attending the funeral four times, but Republican People's Party President Mr. Kilicdaroglu is in the picture, he won't say his name. How dare you, how shameless, how could such a thing happen, such a morality, such publishing? My dear friends, Mr. Arinc, you have gone on a pilgrimage, God willing, and stoned your devil. Well, it's a tradition for us; pilgrims are allowed. My father, my mother, took away her children, her neighbors, all the villagers while she was on the pilgrimage. You didn't get us to give you a permit on the way out, but I'll tell you this: with this nation's money -- we're all partners there with the TRT share of those electric bills -- with our money, you've done AKP propaganda. I do not give you my blessing. Because you didn't run it fair, because you didn't do the honest thing, you didn't do the fair thing, you didn't run the place, you didn't do the right thing, you didn't do the right thing. You've been acting as opposition group president. Then what would you do if Congress cut the TV broadcasts, Mr. Arinc? An ignorant man went up to the TRT, insulted CHP and Mr Baykal, and then you paid compensation to the Republican People's Party and Mr. Baykal. You paid for this nation's money. Is that a thing? You need to get this from the TRT General Manager, you need to get it from him. Why doesn't the TRT General Manager pay the money? He gets the world's salary, he gets three to five times the salary of lawmakers. Why didn't you get the TRT General Manager to sign this money, and you paid for it out of the nation's money -- for the insult of someone who didn't know him to the CHP and to Mr. Baykal? My dear friends are interested in the Istanbul Radiohouse Building: it was specially designed for radio broadcast and built as a result of a project competition. Now there were rumors that you were going to allocate this building to the United Nations, but half an hour ago, I received an answer to the question motion. There is no such thing. I'd also like Mr. Arinc to explain it here. My dear friends, is there no other building in Istanbul? You're not supposed to be staring at the building about the early years of that republic, unless there's an oath to eliminate the republic's achievements, its works! My dear friends, I am drawing a resemblance between the AKP's power and the Mongols. The Mongols also destroyed, burned, invaded, and believed in the sanctity of their actions. And you, unfortunately, believe in the sanctity of what you do when you destroy institutions, when you change institutions, when you convert institutions, you invade them, you destroy them, just like the Mongols, my dear friends. Turkey, this land, unfortunately, has seen it in the past. Now, my dear friends, you're both co-opting at TRT, and as if that's not enough, you're getting programs out, buying services from your fellow companies. There's no staff in the TRT? No technical possibilities? No crew? Why waste it? I don't understand that. So I'd like to ask you a question: Who oversees programs published in TRT Arabic? Tell me his name, Mr. Arinc, who is this inspector? Who is this Arabic-speaking auditor? Again, I gave a question proposal, and I said, "Tell your advisors, please find that the answer to that question is really funny, please find it, read it, because it's a lion," and why do you say it in the days of the holiday, and why do you say it? I'm asking it again, and I'm asking it again, and it turns out -- it's funny; it's funny; it's funny, tell your advisors, it's funny, it's an answer, it's a read -- it's a lion, it's called "Es a lion." As a very experienced MP for many years, as a member of Parliament, I don't quite understand how such an answer was given to that motion. My dear friends, is TRT like this different from the Anadolu Agency? You're not fair there either, there's a massacre of personnel, there's a nepotism, there's censorship. I'd like to give you an example: At the opening of the new year of legislature, a reporter from the Anadolu Agency came to me, and as Deputy Director of the Group, I'm explaining the Republican People's Party's views; I'm explaining our feelings, our thoughts about the new year of life. I said, "The Anadolu Agency should also announce the voice of the opposition." I wished for more space. You even censored that. Is there any reporting from a censored mentality? You've brought someone who says, "I'm going to bottle all the secularists." You've made him General Manager. Unfortunately, Mr. Arinc, you've passed the bottle on the employees of the Anadolu Agency who don't think like you. I know that you speak of the justice of the Lord Omar, and that you read, and that in your past you are in such sayings. So I'm going to tell you, Mr. Arinc, do you see any parallel between the justice of Hazreti Omar, who lit his own candle while doing the government's work in his house in the evenings? When you listen to your conscience, when you lie in bed at night, do you say how unfair I was? Or do you want to verify these numbers to your employees, your employees? What about friends, really, are we 30 times the news of the CHP? Are you going to investigate this? And I will give you another example, when every soul will be given out of its goods, but it will not be sufficient for everyone. It's too much to make a dress... then they ask him when he goes to the mosque to make a cloth out of it. How come you made a dress out of it? He says, "I've used my child's share?" He says, "Why don't you tell me these examples -- it's so beautiful -- why don't you apply your life?" Are you getting ambitious? You don't understand what I'm saying. I'm saying you don't understand. You don't understand what I'm saying. You don't understand, I'm saying the voice of the opposition shouldn't be cut down. You don't understand what I'm saying about Western modernity. You don't understand. You don't understand what I'm saying. Let me finally tell you about the justice of the Lord Omar. I wonder if you'll understand. My dear friends, Mr. Arinc will come here now and most likely try to reverse the numbers. But I would like to say to him that even in the past, even in Islam, there can be a lie to prevent a quarrel between husband and wife. You said, Mr. Arinc. Of course, who did you tell the lie to? Who told you the lie? What did you lie about? Did you lie to the PKK? Did you lie to CHP? What was the extent of your lies? We've never known this, but can it also mean that we can resort to any means, even lie, to maintain our power? I'd be really surprised if you said that. Mr. Arinc, here we come, here we go. Look, you've been a member of parliament for three semesters, and since your party's charter hasn't changed, you're not a member of parliament next semester. I'm going to ask you a question: you've been a two-term Speaker of Parliament in this House. Do you have one piece in this House? You had your tourniquets, your tourniquets are gone, and the next Speaker has removed the tourniquets, and only the members of the House staff are left, Mr. Arinc. Once again, my dear friends, Mr. Arinc says: "Why do you make fun of my crying? Why do you take it lightly?" Do not weep for Gaza. I mean, why do you feel sorry for Gaza and cry? To grieve for Gaza, you must first take out the Jewish courage prize on your neck. You'll carry a Jewish courage prize around your neck and then you'll cry for Gaza, that's not true, Number Arinc.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0062par0089	Don't slander, don't slander!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0061par0090	What did a police commissioner do to you? You said for Mr. Ertuğrul Günay: "Let God not put anyone in the position of Ertugrul Günay." But you also, unfortunately, fell for the chief of police. Look, Twitter says: "Recep Trust, Don't trust Ariç. " They write, " I advise you to read this. The MP has to do what the chairman of the party says about the constitutional vote. You say. Is that even possible? How did you manage to run for office? Are you running the TRT, the Anadolu Agency, on the Prime Minister's orders now? So we're not free-willed MPs? What do you mean, if the head of the political party feels the same way about the Constitution, so will all lawmakers. I don't understand that kind of logic.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0062par0092	Why didn't he vote, CHP?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0061par0093	Then let's have four presidents come in here and vote for amendments to the Constitution. Are we stuffing material here? That can't happen, I don't understand that logic.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0062par0094	Why didn't the CHP vote?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0061par0095	Terrorists were smart, outnumbered, armed. Mr. Arinc, you have passed on to our history of politics with such explanations. So you're fighting terrorism with these statements? And then you say that our government is 50 times more successful. My dear friends, when we look at freedom of the press, freedom of the media, you have an even more interesting explanation there. So on May 12, 2012, the daily Vatan wrote what you said on the live air, saying: "If a person earns a living from certain sources, let him take care of himself if he writes something for the institution and the person in charge of it every day. You eat your bread, you're forced to play his drum. I suppose I'll see it as a historic expression of freedom of the press. So, according to your logic, the media can't write anything against power. Mr. Arinc, why don't you act like you did in 2001? So why -- why didn't you become our brother, the AKP's brother -- in 2001 -- look, your promise is very important: the majority is not political weight. It's a very good sentence. So when you were in the minority in 2001, you said those words when you were in opposition. Now that you're at a much older age, maybe you'll never be a congressman again. Why don't you come and be a big brother, tell me what's wrong with the AKP? So maybe I'll become chief, maybe I'll work at the Anadolu Agency. You say, "Why don't you stop AKP from making mistakes?" Why did you come here, friends, and we were once in opposition? We've been critical of this fundamental law. When they want to turn down the voice of this opposition, when they want to change the Civil Code, we make it difficult for them. You don't say that? Why don't you remember any of this? Why don't you teach this Parliament today as Deputy Prime Minister, as a man sitting in the seat of Parliament, as a member of the Parliament, who has experienced all sorts of positions of state when you're at a small party on the sidelines, without even imagining something like that? If I were in your shoes, if I were to be a legislator for 30 years, if I were to run for Congress, if I were to be vice president, if I were to be a deputy prime minister, if it were to be the end of my parliamentary position, I would come and teach this House a lesson in democracy. Friends, I'm sorry. I'll tell you what. This TRT has become our trumpet. I promise you, from now on, the opposition will speak here. Don't you have a bad conscience? Don't you remember any of those days? Isn't there a voice in your mind when you're talking about the justice of God Omar? You're doing it wrong. You don't make me say that at all? Dear Arinc, remember, your wheel will break and the king you trust will one day fall. I'm telling you, don't worry. I thank you all, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0063par0101	Thank you, Mr. Slim. Mr Mehmet Günal of Antalya on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0064par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. First of all, I offer my condolences to the martyrs we buried today, including one in Antalya, to God's mercy, to their families, and to the Turkish nation. I couldn't be there because of this gene. I hereby ask for mercy on all our martyrs again. Dear friends, our fellow speakers have just referred briefly to issues about the need to be neutral about the TRT (TRT) and Anadolu Agency. Article 133 of our Constitution has clearly determined this. Today, it was given this gene on the application of TRT (TRT) and Anadolu Agency, and on the failure of the Deputy Prime Minister to perform the necessary procedures on the matter. Now, he says that agencies that have been helped by the single radio and television agency and public corporate people -- the Anadolu Agency -- have been constitutionally dominated in terms of autonomy and neutrality. Well, there's also the Supreme Court's rulings, and there are decisions in the past, 1990/2, 1990/8. I've already stated the issues of the TRT. In short, the principle of neutrality is observed in the management and control of the structure, in the creation of governing bodies, and in all radio and television publications. He needs to maintain that principle at his establishment and in his publications. In the fulfillment of the injustice, it requires that the TRT (TRT) be protected from both the ruling party and from the effects that may come from other directions. Every precaution that is subject to the pressure of political power contradicts the principle of bias. I read you a sentence from the Constitutional Court's decisions on this issue. So both of them -- both of them in the Constitutional Court's decision -- are clearly stated. Do you know when? The Constitutional Court has decided what neutrality should be, even before the provisions of Article 133, which we have just stated, have yet to be passed, even before the addition of 1993. Dear friends, beyond that, if you remember, the High Election Board has warned the TRT during the referendum that you should be unbiased. He warned me in official writing. So there's a problem here, that there's a problem with the principles of this publication, unfortunately, that it doesn't fit, and every time the warnings continue. Just a moment ago, valuable speakers expressed the time of publication in the various times, in this framework, about whether they followed the principle of neutrality and misdeeds. The answers Mr. Secretary has given to the earlier questions, or rather, there are similar explanations for the times that the institution has given us and the Minister has sent us. In the time our friends told us, in a month's time -- I'm calling it mercy now -- Mr. Slim said it in 3 minutes, but 24 minutes, 3 minutes, 49 seconds only fell to MHP.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0065par0115	The clock, the clock...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0064par0116	So the part that falls in the clock... 49 minutes, excuse me. So 24 hours, 3 hours, 38 minutes, MHP 49 minutes. You figure out how much it is. Since it's not an hour away, it's only one in twenty-five that's given time to the National Movement Party in a month. And if you'd like, dear friends, there's an earlier response. In the first six months of 2012 -- again, our MPs ask at different times -- Mr. Prime Minister, 44 hours and 13 minutes on the news, CHP and Mr. Kilicdaroglu 12 hours and 39 minutes on the news, 2 hours and 29 minutes on the air. Look, it's just Mr. Prime Minister here, your government's news, the ministers' news, the others. Just 44 hours and 13 minutes of news to Mr. Prime Minister, CHP and Mr. Kilicdaroglu say 12 hours and 39 minutes, not ours, but the information from the TRT/MHP and Mr. Bahçeli say 2 hours and 29 minutes. We're looking at live broadcasts, and I'm saying the numbers I've compiled in the same things: again, Prime Minister 40 hours and 12 minutes, CHP and Mr. Kilicdaroglu 13 hours and 43 minutes, 14 hours and 13 minutes, and Mr. Bahçeli 14 hours and 13 minutes. The same thing continues in the group broadcasts. Now, what kind of neutrality is that? Incoming. And they rarely give out these transcripts, my dear friends. Many of them say -- Mr. Oktay Vural has a question proposal, and our friends have a question proposal, and Mr. Alim Light has one -- the answer is like this comedy -- sometimes, sir, we can't pour it out. He says, sometimes we give it to the equivalent, the wrong value and the news value. Now, these are a little, frankly, very vague and sloppy. Dear friends, we have a serious problem here. We're living the same thing here. Right now, within the hour, at the most, this Congress broadcast will be cut off. We've said it over and over again. What's going on here... we don't understand... the power of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, that will, that will, I really don't understand. It starts here, in a blind fight, in a boatman's quarrel, he said that, he said that. The other day, there was a first in the history of Parliament, he promised nearly 20, Mr. Speaker of Parliament. By that time, it was after seven o'clock, and the talks were later. I mean, I don't see how that's an understanding. In such pressure, I find it difficult to understand what kind of advanced democracy you're implementing by lowering the voice of the opposition. Dear friends, I've told you before that we don't need Ibrahim Shahin. We don't need the TRT. As former Speaker, cancel that protocol. I've suggested to you before, open up a broadcast contract, all the TVs will attend, like game broadcasts. Let them publish it here, what's the matter, why do you go? I mean, if there is one thing, it's that the lawmakers have been published, they've made a public announcement, and you've already printed out all the other units. Most of the special TVs are sidelined, the others are suppressed, but why are you going through the broadcast here, I still don't understand it. Here, sir, we say, "Ya, this is our Mr. General Manager, it's being broadcast by side, he allows it, why don't you intervene as Minister?" He says, "Sir, I can't interfere there." But now that I've read a story, Mr. Secretary, I'm intrigued. During his visit to the Silverhouse, Mr. Secretary -- if it's true, if it's wrong -- I couldn't find anything, but I'd appreciate it if he explained it to us -- he looked around, didn't see the TRT reporter, said, "It looks like the National Gazette," and they always came late. Which means he's either out of work or out of time. If it's up to you, then you'll have to do what you have to do with Mr. General Manager. If he's coming everywhere, if he's coming with instructions, we need to give instructions to relevant units in this area. Dear friends, now that our TRT General Manager has changed, the films that were made outside during Mr. İbrahim Şahin's period have suddenly increased in what is referred to as "out-of-privileged" productions. Many times our friends have asked questions, sir, how many times have they been paid? And 90 percent of the answers said: "We have activity reports on our website, we have all expenses." Suddenly, when Mr. Ibrahim Şahin arrived, there was an increase in broadcasts that had been made outside nearly 10 times that, in the broadcast minute. What does that mean? Of course, he won't tell us all his money. Now, I'm telling you how many productions have been made outside: it's increased by more than 10 times. There's a significant increase, even for his friend, who he took over just before him. Well, now, our friends of ours have asked many, many questions. I've got two or three folders here, and I couldn't bring them, so I took them in a nutshell, Mr. Secretary. I see that 2008 -- just like he said, I've drawn up the activity reports from the TRT. There's a painting from the website of the TRT. It's comparable from 2004 to 2008. The outside benefits and services were 227 that year. After that it was cut, there was no more painting after 2008, there were years before it. But I told you how much their minutes have increased, and I told you they've increased by 10 times. Now, our friend who responded to our friends' question proposals, Mr. Secretary, tells us that we have one on our website. Look, I only got this part of the report. Eight or ten pages, there's an explanation for the revenues. There are four lines; four lines of goders.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0066par0127	There's more revenue... there's more revenue.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0064par0128	No, I'll give you the details. Ten pages of income analysis, ad revenues, bandrol revenues, go to TRT, three lines. Let me read one: the main expenses of our establishment are staff costs, the first costs of materials and materials, the amortism and consumption shares, the external services and other expenses. There are no more, after that. So he said he was coming and going. Now I'm going to tell you a little bit more comedy, just to make sure that we understand how carefully this is done! If my friends look at it, there's a number of expenses, and I'm telling you the cost of 2010 and 2009. They're making a copy, so to show you how carefully prepared it is, I have it in my hand, and I'm going to present it to Mr. Secretary right away. The income-goer difference: 2009... I'm reading two lines: in 2009 the total amount of $930 million in revenues cost $883 million in revenues; more than 46 million in income. I'm going back, I'm reading 2010, listen carefully: 883 million in total incomes in 2010. On the website, right now, all of you, go to those pages, you can see, I'm reading the 2009-2010 income-go differential line. Yeah, it's so cliche... you do it to hide it, at least... well, let me read your head. What is it? Look at 2010, how much is it going to cost? And right behind it, look, it says here, it's 930. And it says on page one: the end of 2010: 1 million, I'm sorry -- and now that the numbers are too big -- 1 billion, 266 million dollars; it's going to go away, 961 million. So you can't copy and paste the one page on the back page, you hide the expenses, and then you come to us and you say, "This is what's on our website. Here's what's on your website! Here's what's on your website, I'll pass out copies to all of you. He hasn't been able to get it up yet -- he'll lift it up after that, but -- come on in, look at all of you, the iPads we bought. So I'm going to give you a few examples of what Mr. General Manager has done to his investments, which prevents us from answering our friends' questions and put up expenses with three lines for four years. Outsources: Sir, our friends, they say: "Here, and so on, and so on, I say without name -- how much did you give the Justice and Development Party official's company for the following programs? I'm multiplying, that's not the answer to the question proposal, I'm multiplying. He passes like this, gives you a number of episodes, or costs you per section, gives you another analysis, looks at the other one. When you collect everyone's, the distortions come out because everyone's asking questions, the answers are different. I'm multiplying 8,500 over 551 episodes, which is 4 million, 683 thousand to a party member's company... tell me what's going to happen? So he did it, he did it, and I gave him this much money, if you don't have anything to worry about. What could be more natural than that? They asked him about the other things, and he said the same thing. It says: "The number of episodes is 759, the number of episodes is this. We've found them, we've collected them all, we've got them in a 6 million-something, 7 million, 4 million when you add them up. It's like 3,000, 5,000, and it's not much, guys, but when we hit it, it's all that stuff that he just hid... where's he gonna go after the staff drain? It's going to the outside. Well, now there's the same thing about TRT 6. It's about TRT Shesh. I just got a review of the quality, but there's translation and dubbing. We're looking at 5,250 an hour in some cases, and then a few episodes later it drops to 3,250. So what happened? Fifty-fifty, almost two-thirds, one-third difference. That's how it starts at the beginning of the department, and then we look at it, and then we multiply it... those bills are in the addition, all of them, so it doesn't take us time, I'm telling you. Now, dear friends, there are questions on the other side about advertising revenues, and there are no answers. Next thing we know, he's agreed to 60 million, minimum, that year. Sir, there's a reason. We dropped it 20 million, we said 40. Yeah, how do you drop it? Either there's something wrong with your deal, or how do you end up donating $20 million to someone? Wasn't his terms clear when he took them? How do you do it? We don't understand that, Mr. Secretary. You agree to 60 million, then you reduce it to 40. And here it comes again. There are many examples. So it came out about the ratings corruption, and we switched companies. He said, "Thank God he's been court-martialed, and we've been defrauded." They confessed, and now they've committed. That's another thing. On the other hand, we're looking at some serious staffing work, dear friends. Our friends just told me, I won't go into detail, but now, what's the big deal? There's a door open, where the ministries, institutions, governors, the chief of staff, where they come from, where they come from, where they come from, I don't go there, from this institution, but three months, two months, five months as a chief of staff, and we're looking at TRT, where, I don't know, where, where, I don't know, the editor, the chief of staff, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. and so on and so forth. There are more than ten examples here. I can introduce them to you, I'm not telling you names, but put them on from the chief of staff... if you say, dear friends, if you call them "personal regimes," then remove them from exceptions, or, once every three months, immediately, how come they're from the chief of staff of that place... He's got a high salary. They'll be there in no time. Let's make them contractual, or let's do another status, and when he arrives, he'll come with the Minister, and he'll go with the Minister, and he won't be able to move anywhere else, since he's a chief of staff, he's a press consultant. There's a lot of examples here, and I don't want to go into detail, and I don't want to offend you by naming names, but there's a case, there's transcripts. The other thing, Mr. President, has been discussed here over and over again. We're looking at the people he's taken, he's a real citizen. I'm looking at all of it, and it says, "Amasya," "Amasya Akyıyüş" Now, you know Mr. General Director has this kind of psychological interest in action. It's on the news when there's a rash -- that's what TRT had -- that's what the news says: "Sir, he's from Reshadian, he's from Reshadian, he's from Reshadian, and the Ergenekonians are from Reshadian." Oh, I don't know what their qualifications are, Mr. Secretary, if they explain to us... in fact, there are some transfer examinations, some studies, but seriously, TRT has become a psychological operations center in the process, starting to call early. We're looking at it, and before it happens, there's no arrest, sir. We're looking at the truck with the bomb. We're looking at it, the serial numbers on them have been erased. He's making statements before everyone else, and he's curious about this kind of psychological operation. So, dear friends, here... and even when this Tuncay brings out the South, they ask me at the same time, I will publish the tape of the attacker in my drawer when the time comes. Mr. Secretary, these are not very nice things. I think Mr. Hawk wanted to be a bureaucrat somewhere else, and when I don't, I think he's here playing a little bit of an instigator. It's not right to defend those things that aren't there, especially when you have to avoid these things. But now that I've seen that the other day, as if you were predicting it, sir, I'm waiting with hope, that these hunger strikes will end, that I don't know, but I understand this from the direction and the contacts. Now, I don't know if you're undressing instead of Abraham Şahin. Before the TRT, Mr. Arinc began to inform us. Hopefully, this time you won't be so happy that it's over. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to invite the TRT to do the unbiased broadcast. As responsible, I'd like to offer your support and respect for the motion we've submitted on Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0067par0139	Thank you, Mr. Günal. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Bart's MP, Mr. Yilmaz Bronzeç. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0068par0143	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTI Group on the motion by the National Movement Party Group on our Vice Prime Minister Bkent Arinc. I hereby salute your high council. The gene is an important way of controlling our Constitution and the Civil Code. Other control routes are organised separately in the 99th and 100th Articles of the Constitution, including the question motion, parliamentary research and general discussion held together in the 98th article of our Constitution. The gene is a serious institution, which would result in the reduction of the Council of Ministers or the minister's vote of insecurities, unlike other rules of control, and the ministers of this parliament have been demoted by these rules of control in the past. Therefore, the subject and reason of the gene should be solid, based on evidence, claims should be strong enough to shake the agenda; otherwise, the gene will cause the institution to weaken, cause it to lose its influence and not be the way to control it. It has been made clear in the 99th article of our Constitution that it should not be contrary to the purpose of balanced parliamentary work. Our opposition parties have recently used the generic to ensure that parliamentary work is not conducted in balance. Last week, we completed two thirds of the working hours of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with generic talks, and the rest with group proposals, and unfortunately, there was no time for the law work that people expected from us. The reason I'll explain in a moment is, unfortunately, a typical example of this. Dear MPs, when we look at the subject and reason for the motion given by the MHP Group about our Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc, we see at first that he does not have the conditions set out in our Constitution and our Interior Charter, that he has no serious basis, that he does not have any concrete evidence. It is good to remember where the TRT came from before answering the allegations. The TRT, one of the most important institutions in our Republic, has been a radio broadcaster for 85 years and television broadcaster for 44 years. Prior to the AK PARTY rule, there was a cumbersome structure in the TRT, as in many of our institutions. Despite the number of channels in the TRT, which had large units on an unmanageable scale, there were more employees. In programmes and journalism, the brand value of the TRT (TRT) remained behind the private sector. Just as the AK PARTY government has claimed and made every institution of our country efficient, it has also claimed the TRT (TRT) and has soon eliminated the losses of TRT (TRT) and has made significant progress in this area. Today, it is necessary to applaud a TRT (TRT) that erases the image of a pale public publisher by increasing the investment of technology, which is around $16 million a year, 8 to 10 times each year. For a digital terrestrial TV broadcast, which is the final point of world broadcasting, you have to admire the HD broadcaster, who is the leader of HD publishing, by renovating all of their studios. It is necessary to be proud of the TRT (TRT) that tried to open abroad with three channels at the time of the coalition of the donor mp, which was able to broadcast from 8 different satellites today on five continents of the world and almost 15 different channels in almost all countries. TRT was an institution that was damaged during the period of the mp., which claimed that the TRT was not well managed. Today, it has become an institution that attacks in hundreds of units and gives more than budgets. In fact, at that time, our citizens were paying 3.5 per cent of the TRT on the bill for electricity bills. WHEN the EC PARTY came to power, it reduced its TRT share to 2 percent, and based on the price of electricity, 2 per cent corresponds to 1.5 per cent. Now, I'm asking the group of MHP who gave the gene: How did our citizens today pay 1.5 per cent of the electricity bill as a TRT share, and 15 channels of TRT do no harm, while you were cutting 3.5 per cent of the TRT share, and how did you manage to damage the 5 channel TRT? TRT's success is also evident in advertising revenues. TRT, which has increased advertising revenues by 350 per cent, has become an institution that sells movies, not just movies. It shouldn't bother you that our national values, one of the most important tasks of the TRT, have begun to do their part in the effort to bring our national values to new generations, to strengthen our democracy, to contribute to unity and unity, to peace and peace. Nationalism, not with words, not with envy, precious lawmakers. The real nationalism is to be able to collect the Turkish world on one screen by broadcasting in eight different languages. And that's what the government, which you gave the gene, has done by setting up TRT Avaz. There is one thing that you have wrongfully criticised the AK PARTY's power at every turn. You remove it from here and from here. The AK PARTY placed its declaration next to the TRT logo. Today the TRT Turkish channel is Turkey's voice all over the world. Regional leadership doesn't just happen when you're lying around. If the people in the area don't hear your voice, if you can't get them what you say, you can't do it. Here, Turkey's messages reach all Middle East via TRT Arabic channel. You also objected to the start of the broadcast life of TRT 6. In the past, Kurdish-rooted citizens watch PKK propaganda from Roj TV, and today, thanks to TRT Shesh, they watch all of our country's wealth, unity and unity messages and the true news of our state. What could be better than this? Was there a TRT Children's Channel in your power? Weren't our children invaded by foreign cartoons and programs? Now he meets the TRT Children's Channel, which is first among the children's channels, with our children's culture, with Keloglan, with Nasreddin Hoxha, with Dede Korak. Is that what's bothering you? If the TRT News channel is the most watched news channel in Turkey today, there is a share of TRT's neutrality. TRT reflects our national culture, while the TRT Music Channel also has Turkish music. TRT, the most watched channel in Ramadan, received the greatest appreciation of our people by going to private broadcasts in the month of the battle. The TRT has begun a test broadcast of Religion TV, jointly with the President of Religious Affairs. It shouldn't bother us if religious knowledge is passed to our people in the right way. In addition to radio broadcasts carried out in 32 different languages, it is also appreciated to allow instant news that changes in 32 different languages from the TRT website to spread rapidly across the world. An important part of the 10 new television channels that have been opened have been the most popular channel among other channels, broadcasting in their own themes. In the past, about 200 programs have been satisfied, while today's TRT is broadcast in 654 different programs per day. This number proves the power that TRT is reaching. Despite the fact that the TRT is so successful, we do not see a serious claim to the allegations that have led to the discussion of the gene. One of the most important claims is staffing. Whereas the facts are very different. In this period, the number of staff titles with 152 in the TRT has been reduced to 72. The number of vice presidents, whose number is 23, has been reduced to 19 hundred and fifty-two, to 32, to 172, to 135, to 35. The TRT, which you used in the past as a farm, has now become an institution that serves the nation, not a government-run institution. The numbers are there, you say. The administration that wants to take part increases the number of employees. In 2002, when the donors were in power, there were more than 8,000 staffed, 4,000 contract workers, and today only 7,000 people, including contractors, are working on 15 channels. 5 channels in the mp power, 12,000 people in the AK PARTY, 15 channels in the power of the EC, 7,000 people. Is that what this is? Well, it's obvious how high-profile the allegations of recruiting against the numbers are, the valued lawmakers. The claim that our Deputy Prime Minister's immediate surroundings were employed to various units of the TRT (TRT) is a completely baseless claim, and you can't show a single example of it. It doesn't make sense to leave mud trails. Dear lawmakers, there is no way to accept claims that TRT has little room for opposition in the genus. We know that opposition leaders have been called into the air at every turn. We see that some opposition leaders have been published, but we also know that some have not been published by protesting, while others have not been using their choice for publication from TRT. The opposition parties' activities, rallies, and various meetings have been made live, and the news has included news from the opposition. We have a member of the TRT General Directorate, ask him if he was able to give the congress of an opposition party five-and-a-half hours live in his day. Today's TRT was able to give the National Movement Party congress five and a half hours live 20 days ago. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] However, I think the real problem here is that if we had a Prime Minister who was stuck in Ankara and not working day and night abroad for the development and reputation of our country, the Prime Minister's news at TRT would of course be little. If the Council of Ministers had met once every two months, if only IMF commissioners had heard the news instead of mass openings of investments, of course it wouldn't have been a problem. Then the TRT would naturally give little room for the news of power. However, the situation is different now; can it be considered that a leader of the world's largest televisions, who brings the night into the day for this country and even for world peace, does not give the television of his country live? Not to confuse our Prime Minister's news as Prime Minister's Prime Minister with news as President of the EC PARTY. Therefore, the claim that the TRT is not neutral is an abstract claim. Another issue is criticism of parliamentary TV broadcasts. These criticisms are unfair.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0069par0170	Come on!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0068par0171	It is alleged that the laws were brought out during the middle of the night and thus the voice of the opposition was silenced during the absence of Parliament TV. Parliament TV is on the air during normal working hours mentioned in the Civil Charter. Since the opposition has used this time with group proposals to prevent law talks, law talks are scheduled for nighttimes when Parliament TV is not on the air. The opposition itself is the cause of this situation. It's 2:00 in the morning. 20 out of 00. Until 00, this Parliament cannot begin its law talks. The opposition is constantly talking with the group proposals of the four parties, and Parliament TV has become a screen for opposition group proposals. There is no turning down the voice of the opposition. While it should be thanked for the services of the country's flag carrier, TRT, it is not right to be worn down by claims that do not reflect the truth. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers and the other institution charged with the gene is our Anadolu Agency. The Anadolu Agency is Turkey's official news agency and is the agency of all of us. Turkey represents it all over the world. The agency has reduced its number of employees in recent years, while the cost per person has dropped considerably, while the production should be appreciated for updating its subscription revenues by 76% per journalist per journalist, by 40 per cent. Turkey's state-run Anadolu Agency has a subscription of 1,200, which has the most common and professional newscaster staff. If the Anadolu Agency had not acted objectively in its news, the subscribers who wanted to see the amount of money they paid would have to be put in front of the work. In fact, politicians are living witnesses to the unbiased journalism of the Anadolu Agency. It's the Anadolu Agency, which announces the voice of the opposition, because wherever they do a program in Turkey, they know it's responsible for passing the news first. See, the Anadolu Agency reports activities in Turkey's Grand National Assembly with dozens of reporters every day. When we compare the numbers of these reports, I think the opposition should blush. According to political parties, the distribution of news by the Agency's Parliamentary News Editorship last October is as follows: First Republican People's Party, 78 news. Second National Movement Party, 65 news. Third AK PARTY, 40 news. Fourth Peace and Democracy Party, 31 news. Would you look at the order?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0070par0175	Who gave you this paper?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0071par0176	It's against the nature of things!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0068par0177	In fact, we as the ruling party are posting opposition parties rather than reproaching them.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0070par0178	Do you believe that, do you believe that?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0068par0179	The opposition claiming their news was underrated...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0070par0180	Do you believe that?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0068par0181	You're not aware of these figures, Dear Vice President.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0070par0182	Do you believe that, do you believe that?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0068par0183	Every day, a three-man team of cameramen, photojournalists, and reporters follow opposition leaders and broadcast their news. Considering that journalism is the most demanding and uninterrupted work in the world, it would be unfair to criticize the Anatolian agent unfairly and unfairly, first of all, to spend the night and the day preparing them. There is no concrete claim to the Anadolu Agency, such as TRT, in the text of the genotype provided by the MHP Group. There's no corruption, no theft, no abuse, no activity that's going to put the country in a difficult position, the agency is supposed to have made a mistake in a story, so they're getting a credit. It's so funny, it can't be a gene that's so serious. The report, mentioned earlier, is news that terrorist Murat Karayilan has been captured. Last year, on 14 August, the head of the Iranian Parliament's National Security and Foreign Policy Commission, Aladdin Burucerdi, stated at a press conference that Murat Karayilan, one of the leaders of the terrorist organization, had been captured. The Iranian official news agency announced it to the world in the emergency code. On the basis of this, the Anadolu Agency has informed its subscribers of this news and its source. Then the Iranian official changed his statement, and the terrorist did not get caught. Now, the MHP says that the Anadolu Agency has made the story of Karayilan a mistake. That's why we're giving you a gene question about the Deputy Prime Minister. The Iranian official who reported it is the official news agency of Iran, which has spread the word to the world; the criminal is Anadolu Agency. What kind of logic is that? The TRT and Anadolu Agency have been the face of our country in public broadcasting with significant breakthroughs in recent years. In this success, our Vice Prime Minister's contributions are enormous. While successful governments should be appreciated, let there be no sign of mud. It is not right to wear its logic out. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister says that the general council should not be brought up on the basis of an abstract allegations, given no serious basis for our Deputy Prime Minister, with such feelings and thoughts, I salute you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0072par0190	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. On behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0073par0194	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I give you all my compliments and wish you a good evening. The motion for the geneorization of me, as you know, has been biased by the Turkish Radio Television Agency and the Anadolu Agency, the use of journalism and implementation for the purposes of benefit and political manipulation for some people, the constraining of the hours that TRT 3 put in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, and some sentences that depend on it. Since this is being repeated by my friends, I won't get into much of the economic use of time. But there's a mistake here, it's not legally possible to bring TRT and Anadolu Agents together. Our friends are either unaware of this, or they're talking about both institutions by jointizing the Anadolu Agent to TRT. For once, TRT, let's say it's a public economic initiative, which accounts every year for the CIT Commission, and is also an autonomous and neutral public broadcaster under its own law. The Anadolu Agency, however, was founded by Grand Ataturk in 1920, which is a 90-two-year-old institution, but its legal status is anonymous. There are some shareholders in the anonymous company, but not in the majority. So it's wrong to side with a company and a public economic initiative, but at the same time, the TRT and Anadolu Agency have different functions. TRT is a public broadcaster or broadcaster, radio broadcaster, but Anadolu Agency is not publishing, producing news, and promoting news to publishers. I wish they could've split up, but there's been a mistake. So, in general, I'd like to say a few words from both institutions. First of all, I'd like to thank our friends who are speaking on behalf of the groups, and first of all, our friend who is speaking as a motion holder. Of course, the gene is a control mechanism, which should not be diluted, needs to maintain its seriousness, and it is useful to be given in its place and time. At the same time, for a Deputy Prime Minister who has dealt with hundreds of questions, of course, there may be a motion to ask, but we will soon see the seriousness of that, the consistency of the allegations inside. First of all, the speech of Mr. Slim is to make a complete person, and it is not right to make a person according to our Civil Code. With all due respect, at the end of my words, I'll also have a two-word address for him. But I find that our other friends blame both institutions and a minister who is responsible for them, sometimes by giving numbers, sometimes by abstract expressions. How true and true are they? If you'll excuse me, I'd like to explain them. Of course, I've learned my lesson from the last question. So let me first get in touch with the issues mentioned in the gene, and then we'll give the answers together -- God willing, there'll be time. Dear friends, TRT is not a new institution, it's from the 60s, we remember it from black and white televisions, they have radios, but now we all see a different point where TRT came from. It's an unbiased public corporate broadcaster. That's what the law says, that's what the Constitution says, that our friends are right about this. True, he is obliged to make necessary, adequate, satisfying publications on issues that inform the public by sticking to modern journalism techniques and methods of journalism, with a sense of neutral and non-verbal journalism. Under the 20th Article of TRT Law 2954, the government and the political parties whose group is in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will be given news and place in TRT, provided it has news value and quality for its activities. I'll put the criticism of our friends in a certain place with an explanation. Of course, as a political party report, we can talk about the deadlines for the DP, the Republican People's Party, the Justice and Development Party and other, the Peace and Democracy Party, but government activities must also be included in the law and the Constitution. There's a need to separate them. TRT, the only public service publishing agency in Turkey, is trying to fulfill three basic functions of public service publishing. These are the principles set forth by the founder of the BBC, and organizations, usually public broadcasters, are obliged to comply. One is the entertaining function; the informative function, the educational function. So the news, the publications... in public broadcasting institutions -- not to mention private television -- their principles are in the broadcasting principles of the Radio and Television Supreme Council -- but as public broadcaster, a television that is supported by the public must perform three functions: it will be educational, it will be instructive, and it will be entertaining. Dear friends, the 359th Law, which took effect on May 1, 1964, was established, and in January 1968, for the first time, TRT started broadcasting television. Now, I'm going to explain what we've come up with a little bit later in the numerals. Today, the TRT has 15 television channels, and with 15 television channels, it can create a network of two thirds of the world. There was a lot of discussion -- our friends are giving numbers -- why is it not fair or equitable in the news and live broadcasts on TRT News? Hours, numbers, seconds are coming out. There's only one reason for that, and our measurement in this news and live broadcast is not equality, it's justice. If there were equality, the Party of Peace and Democracy would have to even the Justice and Development Party, the CHP and the CHP, or any other party outside Parliament. So we rely on justice or justice, and we set up our news measurement on it because equality is never justice. And here we have our measurement, we have three lines. So to us, what's news, why should it be given, where our first measurement is that activities have news value. You may find it subjective, but I'd like to say that it's known that it's news and it's not newsworthy. So these political activities need to be newsworthy in terms of our television, otherwise it's possible for the public to consider it differently. You're not just talking in Parliament, you're having meetings, you're having political parties, you're having public relations talks. Of course, it has its value, and it has the power to influence the public, but while we're doing the news on TV, we're looking at whether these activities are newsworthy or how much they carry. We prioritize political parties represented in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, and we do so according to the three criteria, considering the vote received by those parties. Thanks to Yilmaz Bronze, our friend said a lot of things I had to say, and he helped me. For example, the last example is beautiful. In the General Assembly of the National Movement Party on November 4th, this congress was evaluated, including five hours of live broadcasts. I've been through the past tenses. In fact, one of them is the period of Mr. Tuskaya, who is now a member of the MP. At that time, only seven minutes of news had been predicted, and today we see a five-hour story as an up-to-date and news-worthy activity.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0074par0206	There was one in 2009.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0073par0207	My dear friends, but one fact is that TRT has always been criticized. If you look at the book 500 days, the book of the late Ismail Cem, there are anecdotes of his time. These were coming to me, and they were talking about TRT, and they weren't talking about current events. You remember the late Ottoman Division head, or you remember those who were available, and his name was always called TRT, TRT, TRT -- something else -- but I don't want to say it -- but I don't want to say it. I'm not connected to injustice or not having anything to do with the truth, but it's almost the fate of the TRT. Opposition accuses him of being the trumpet of power, they themselves come to power, the ruling parties fall to opposition, and they accuse the TRT of misprinting. This bilateral seesaw has been in every period.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0075par0208	Did you do it?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0073par0209	So we're hearing a lot here: it's the trumpet of power. Well, one day you'll be somewhere else, and this time we'll probably say it's a TRT-sided broadcast. If this is the way it's gonna go, there's not a lot of measurements in justice and mercy just to pin it on us, because when you weigh it...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0075par0210	So you agree?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0073par0211	...it's impossible to even it up and balance it out. Of course it is possible to bring equality and balance on other matters, but a party in power has two-thirds of Parliament, it has members of the group, it has presidents, it has ministers, it has every activity that they do if it's newsworthy and it's news, why are you giving them away, dear? Every party has a group vice president, he has a press conference, and every night we see them and watch them on the news.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0076par0212	What channel?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0073par0213	In fact, in some days, let's say that there were no talks or meetings from the ruling wing, on the contrary, on that day, any of the opposition parties attended different meetings with the president and other representatives, and on that day the opposition party's words and activities are more involved. My dear friends, the files I have brought here are the questions I've been asked about the TRT and the Anadolu Agency, and the answers to these questions. All our friends know that every question has been answered. That's my custom; I care about the question, and I answer it. It's just that he's recently arrived, and he's still got some unresolved questions, and I'm going to introduce them to our friends as soon as possible. Therefore, no one has been answered my question. Let him not make sense of it. We care about these activities all the time, and we're responding to the motions that our friends may have made against our mistakes. Let me just say one or two of them, for example, Mr. Hasip Kaplan had made a criticism about our TRT 6 channel or why some of the letters in the Kurdish alphabet were not used. Our friend Behic Steel last semester asked us that, and we gave Mr Behic Çelik the answer. We say that our TRT 6 broadcasts are being carried out in accordance with the general broadcasting principles of our institution, TRT Law No. 2954 and regulations. In accordance with the decree, some letters that correspond to the unresolved voices in the Turkish alphabet are obligatory in the publications. The question of a member of the MP from MHP is actually what Hasip Kaplan Bey wants to know. We responded to Mr. Esed's question motion by funding the Turkish Language Foundation: ▪ The name Esed is a lion, and the name Assad is a happy name, and the word "Esed" has no negative or demeaning meaning. This word, written and read in different ways in the media, was applied by the Anadolu Agency to the Turkish Language Foundation, and by the Turkish Language Foundation, some of the Arab and Persian people's names are used by both Turks and Arabs and Fars. He's got it in his hand, but he said it differently here. Since the Turkish Language Foundation has established that the Syrian President's name should be used as "Behşar Esed," the name of the Syrian President has been used in the TRT news bulletins for nearly three years. I don't understand why this sensitivity is being raised so much.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0077par0217	Are you going to ask the Turkish Language Foundation about Mursi?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0073par0218	My dear friends, because of some literature, our Yilmaz Bronze friend has responded, but I would like to read to you a few decisions that have been passed from the judiciary: ▪ There is a statement in the genus, in the form of the head of the scandal of the bomb-loaded car report. This claim does not reflect the truth. As such: Ankara 10 has filed a criminal complaint against the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office on charges of violating the confidentiality of the investigation against our employees due to the report, but has filed a civil suit against them. On 10/11/2012, the original Criminal Court ruled that it was acquitted with the following number of verdicts. Again in general, the Turkish Radio Television Agency...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0078par0220	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0073par0221	...and so on and so forth, the public case has been filed against three of the executives of our organization -- flan and so forth -- as a result of a criminal complaint by the main opposition party and a deputy -- on the grounds that the referendum was being broadcast in the process of bias and yes. The original Criminal Court's ruling, dated 21/6/2011, has been issued with the following number of acquittals. Again, it has been decided by Ankara Public Prosecutor's Office that there is no room for prosecution on charges of violating the privacy of the investigation and attempting to influence the fair trial by the accused of a Ergenekon trial and so on due to reports filed under the charge of Ergenekon. Again, a news programme carried out within the scope of this case has ruled that there is no room for prosecution by the defendants of the Ergenekon trial, Haberal, as a result of a criminal complaint filed against our institution's Director-General İbrahim Şahin by Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office. My dear friends, I have one or two important issues -- five minutes to go -- and this is another: There is a claim here, such as to hire relatives within the community, or to favor their own allies. Dear friends, I absolutely refuse. Mr. Günal said he'd give me a list of people who were taken from the Chief of Staff and worked in places or something, but I guess that's not my position. My position is this: I took with me a friend who worked as a press consultant, a radio communications graduate, worked for many years in Radical and other newspapers, who was the last to be a Press Advisor on the Capital Market Board. Then, to continue our relations with TRT, he was assigned to the General Director's Counseling Office -- which is what they call a strategic, whatever -- no, it's not -- and then he left the institution. The fact that my press advisor has been assigned to the General Director's Advisor on relations with TRT, if that's the way it's considered a crime, I don't accept it, and I find it very natural. But if they're saying that you had TRT taken from your relatives, your daughter, your son, your son-in-law, your sister-in-law... you wouldn't be able to find the seven families, but you don't. So don't give me your Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. I'm a sensitive person in these matters. There is not a single person who works in the TRT until the first, the second, the third, and the seventh. But I did something different.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0079par0225	When you collect all the ministers, there are 20, Mr. Secretary. Every minister is responsible for himself.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0073par0226	You're targeting my person and giving me the gene.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0079par0227	Every minister is responsible for himself. When you collect it... it's your organization. Here's a list.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0080par0228	Mr. Günal, please...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0073par0229	Okay, okay, I've made you a list to satisfy your curiosity by predicting your bullying.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0079par0230	It's not a tease, it's a list.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0080par0231	Mr. Günal, please...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0079par0232	Mr. President, I'm telling you, it's short notice.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0080par0233	I get it, but don't interrupt.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0081par0234	Now that the MHP Group has given me the gene, and they're accusing me of being a staffer, I wonder if some of our friends from the MHP Group have wives, sisters-in-law, children in this institution? Ten in the first round. But I have these names here...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0079par0235	Don't put them anywhere, then! Throw them out of the public!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0081par0236	Don't get excited... don't get excited...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0079par0237	Get them out of the public, then! Don't let the MHP people go anywhere.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0081par0238	You asked, I'm answering.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0079par0239	Well, throw it all away!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0081par0240	Whoa... don't get excited, we'll talk more, as long as you're comfortable. For one thing, it's against your will to give these names. Why? Because these people are innocent.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0079par0242	We didn't give a name, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0081par0243	You're the one who hired them. So, I'm going to ask Mr. President, I've made four copies, and I'm going to give these names to four group vice presidents. And you can give me 10 Chiefs of Staff or whatever they're passing through. I'm giving you this because there's a lot of them here. Or because they have a lovely wife. At least that's what you'll see. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to present this to my friends at the end of my speech. Dear friends, let's be serious, let's be brave, and let's be honest. This institution used to be known as a farm.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0082par0248	Mr. President, is that possible?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0081par0249	We have made this institution, today, by all praises, an institution that appeals to the world through 15 channels. They've got 12 radios, they've got radios broadcasting on the Internet in 32 languages, they've got magazines, they've got foreign sales. Since 2008, the institution has become a magnificent institution today. You're saying outside production; we, outside production, interior production, look, we observe the following measurements: four kinds in the TRT... Mr. President, aren't you going to break my promise?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0083par0252	No, I'm not doing it to anyone, Mr. Arinc, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0081par0253	Oh, boy, oh, boy, oh, boy, oh, boy, oh, boy, oh, boy, oh, I also gave you a table on the Plan Budget Commission regarding the Anadolu Agency. I've got samples of him, and I'm going to give them to four other members of the group. We're not using anything as a farm; we're bringing people to our nation today, face-blown, bloated, cumbersome institutions that someone has turned into a farm. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Nothing is true that is mentioned in the gene motion. Mr. Slim, I have two things to say, I have four seconds left. One: to hell with him, to hell with him, to hell with him, and one day someone will say to you, "Fuck you too!" Besides, Çorum said it, someone said it, but you're a wreck. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Second: You don't just deal with Assad, you don't just deal with Obama, it comes to your mouth, you say, "To hell with Tayip Erdoğan!" Tomorrow you'll be talking about someone from your party, or some of the names you consider sacred, and you can say, "To hell with you!" So, pull yourself together. Are you the Grim Reaper, sending everyone to hell? That's an inappropriate expression! [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, I've got a few sentences left, but I hope I can get a pick-me-up.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0084par0262	Thank you, Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0085par0263	Dear Arinc, the Grim Reaper is also an angel. The Grim Reaper is also an angel, Mr. Arinc. You don't know that the Grim Reaper is an angel.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0086par0264	It takes the lives of those who go to heaven.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0085par0265	You were just funny, you couldn't answer!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0087par0266	Yes, Mr. Günal, please.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0088par0267	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has given his name. I didn't give any names, I've got a list, I've told the Chief of Staff... Second of all, we're all honest. And we have the documents, so we're going to introduce them to him. We didn't use any names, if you'll notice, and I just said, "There are these." I said, "Mr. Minister, he's just saying his own, and the others, I've got other ministries." So we're all honest, we stand by what we say. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0089par0271	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0090par0272	Mr. President, Mr. Arinc insulted me by saying, "Are you a reaper?"
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0091par0273	I thought he was an angel! I thought he was an angel!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0089par0274	Mr. Slim, so we can go this way. Are you a reaper?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0090par0275	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0089par0276	Okay, here you go. Now Mr. Arinc will answer; then we'll go...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0092par0278	Death doesn't send to hell, it takes life!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0089par0279	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0093par0282	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Arinc, this is the first time I've seen you on these platforms in ten years. I mean, you're the kind of person who gives such calm answers, but today, for some reason, you've gone around the edges, you've never had any questions. You also told me that someone told me to go to hell and that we'd destroyed him. Look, there's no such thing. I went to that gym -- the sorority knows better -- it was a great crowd. The more people sitting in the living room, the more people standing. I talked for an hour. As I was walking up the stairs, there was a kid across the street saying something to me, and I couldn't even hear it. Then the party boys hit him, that's right. I would never want that to happen. I'd really like the boy to come to me and say to me, "Fuck you too, Muharrem Tüyük. " Because I come from that culture of democracy. I don't come from a different culture when I'm in opposition like you, in different power. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Mr. Arinc, the Prime Minister is the one who asked me about him. You told Assad to go to hell, can you say to America? So the Prime Minister says: I can't. I'm afraid of America. Since I can't say it, Muharrem Slim can't say it. I said it in return, but you can't say it. You can't do that when you're in opposition, when you're in power. I'll tell you this: I'm not claiming to be the Grim Reaper, but I'm claiming that I'm against the imperialists when the Muslims in Iraq are being bombed, even if I'm against the opposition, even if I'm in power. And I say to everyone in that sense to hell, that doesn't mean I'm the Grim Reaper, which means I'm honest, as you just mentioned, standing up, not bowing down. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0094par0290	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0095par0291	Here you go. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0094par0295	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are one of the angels of the Grim Reaper, who has a duty, who has a duty, who has a duty, and who has the duty of all angels. So I won't say Death, it's about the other side, that he's sending everyone away. Only now will I be able to say my second word. He's giving examples of Mr. Tütreti Ömer, come on, the sheriffs say, he's talking about the hajj, the halal, and as far as I know, he's gone to Umre. These are all sacred feelings. In the end, he ended up saying, "Namus, morality. "
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0096par0297	You said it, Mr. Arinc, you said it.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0094par0298	Okay. There's 550 people in this House, and there's the deceased, and we're this many people. When it comes to morality, justice, decency, you should be the last to talk.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0096par0301	Why? Why?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0094par0302	Because 549 MPs have 500 immunity files. The BDP has 18 files of an MP, but the only file among these MPs is for sexual harassment, and it belongs to you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0096par0305	Right... Mr. President, I don't think...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0097par0308	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0096par0310	Of course I deserve it, I know. But look, Mr. Arinc, if you don't remove my immunity, you're scum, you're scum, you're scoundrels, you're corrupt!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0098par0312	The SMS are stopping.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0099par0313	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0096par0314	Look, that immunity... I'll be tried, judged...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0098par0315	Get out of here!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0096par0316	You will instruct the prosecutor, and you will make cases to silence Muharrem Encel, and then you will keep my immunity. If you have a little decency, if you have a little decency, if you have a little conscience... Mr. President, you're an asshole if you don't remove my immunity! You'll remove my immunity, I'll go...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0100par0318	Mr. President, let him speak in a clean language.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0096par0319	Yeah, that's what they wrote about me, right, that's right. I'm not afraid of that. I want to be judged. Is the Prime Minister a fraud? The Prime Minister is a fraud? Don't you have the Prime Minister's files? There are 50 of them, Prime Minister. Does the Prime Minister agree to those corruptions, those immunitys, that gangbanging, and I'm going to accept that? What you need to do is this: a person can be accused of a crime. That doesn't mean he's guilty. I want to be judged. If you have any guts, come and remove my immunity.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0101par0321	Quit! Quit!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0096par0322	Pick him up, pick him up. What am I supposed to quit? Why should I quit? Mr. Arinc, I'm going to make you pay dearly for this promise, and I'm going to make you pay dearly. You, yes, the D.A. gave the order to that D.A., you!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0102par0324	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0096par0325	You gave, your government gave! They said, "Let's do this to silence Muharrem Tüyük."
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0102par0326	Mashallah!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0096par0327	I knew you'd be talking about it on this stand one day. But I have a good heart. I -- I don't doubt my brother -- I know what I'm doing. He's the bastard who won't remove my immunity!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0103par0329	Quit!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0096par0330	Remove my immunity, come.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0104par0332	Dear friends, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0103par0333	Why don't you quit?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0096par0334	What am I supposed to quit? You'll remove immunity, I'll go to court. What's the big deal? Let the Prime Minister resign.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0104par0335	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0105par0336	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0104par0337	Covering the shame is essential, and so is our faith.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0106par0338	You're covering it up too much! I swear to God! You're the one who exposed the shame. Shame on you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0104par0339	I've been patient, but it's our duty to expose a man who talks about morality, faith, justice.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0107par0340	If you don't remove my immunity, you're assholes!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0108par0341	You didn't fall that low! It hasn't fallen this far!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0104par0342	In particular, giving orders to no prosecutor, filing charges, indictments...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0107par0343	Pick him up, pick him up! I'm writing, I'm writing.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0104par0344	Don't shout, don't shout.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0107par0345	Remove my immunity. Why don't you pick it up?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0104par0346	You're in the throes of criminals.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0107par0347	Why don't you pick it up?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0104par0348	When you read the messages in that indictment, you blush like these seats, but you don't blush. Fear God!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0109par0350	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0107par0351	But you're the one who called that prosecutor, you!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0104par0352	Stop being judged, stop it! You quit first!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0107par0353	You called that prosecutor, you did!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0104par0354	He's got a female MP with him, shame on him!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0107par0355	You called that prosecutor! You made that prosecutor do it, you!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0104par0356	The least you can do is resign from the sexual harassment charge and pull yourself aside!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0107par0357	You made that prosecutor.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0104par0358	I didn't.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0107par0359	You called that prosecutor.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0104par0360	I didn't call.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0107par0361	I know very well, you called.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0104par0362	The person who did this is inhuman.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0107par0363	You called that prosecutor.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0104par0364	You're gonna pay for what you did to a party lady, and you're gonna pay for it.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0107par0366	You can't do anything. You called the D.A. You told the prosecutor to write like that.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0104par0367	Get out of here!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0107par0368	If there's a document like that, I'm an asshole, or you're an asshole. I'm writing my petition now.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0104par0369	Your cover's blown.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit02spe0110par0373	Talks on whether to bring up the motion on the motion to ask for a motion on Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc has been completed. Now, I submit to your votes as to whether or not the motion for the geneorization will be taken into consideration: those who agree to the motion of the gene... those who refuse to accept it... are not accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0110par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 26th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We begin talks on behalf of Republican People's Party Group members, Mr. Muharrem Eyüt, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group's Party Group, which is part of the special Agenda Participate, on the part of the agenda, on the grounds that the Council of Ministers, Mr. Muharrem İnce, has blocked the use of its meetings, demonstrations and travel freedoms, has protected public officials who have been violent with public power and have been under pressure on citizens, Interior Minister İdris Naim Sahin (11/24) will be on the agenda (11/24). Government? Here. The motion is read in today's merger, so I'm not having it re-readed. Members of parliament, according to Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the Council of Ministers, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers will be promised in this meeting. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motionr, 20 minutes for the group and the government. Now, I'm going to read the names of the distinguished members in order, and then I'm going to call them: Motion holder: Gaziantep MP Ali Serindağ. On behalf of the groups: İstanbul MP Şirıyya Önder on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group; MP Mehmet Siam Kesımoğlu on behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group; Kütahya MP on behalf of the People's Party Party; Sinop MP Mehmet Ersoy on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. On behalf of the government, Mr. Idris Naim Şahin, Minister of the Interior. This is Mr. Ali Serindağ of Gaziantep.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0111par0014	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of the House, I have made a commitment on behalf of the motion makers regarding Mr. Idris Naim Şahin, the Minister of the Interior. I salute you all. Members of parliament, with a petition issued to Ankara Governor on 1/10/2012 by several NGOs, they will issue a press statement in front of the First Turkish Grand National Assembly... Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, sir, the MPs are standing in front of the bench somewhere else. Please...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0112par0018	Congressmans, since the speaker's influence is broken, I'd appreciate it if you'd either take your seats outside or take your seats.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0111par0019	Ankara Governorate has not allowed NGOs to gather in front of the first building of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and then to appear in the spiritual presence of Ataturk, on the grounds that it is contrary to the Law of Meetings and Demonstrations. In the first statement of Article 34, which regulates the right to the meeting and demonstration march of the Constitution, all have the right to march without prior permission, unarmed and without attack. Article 3 of Law 2911 contains similar provisions. In the second part of Article 34 of the Constitution, the right to a meeting and demonstration march has been ruled only to prevent national security, public order, crime, general health and general morality and the protection of the rights and freedoms of others and to be limited by the law. Mr. Secretary, since when is it a crime to attend this march and face the spiritual presence of the Great Ataturk? You have prevented our citizens from entering Ankara from all sides of Turkey by committing constitutional crimes that want to join the republic. You have blocked the freedom of travel guaranteed in the Constitution of our citizens. You used the governors and law enforcement officers to use your constitutional offense. You gave them a criminal order. You had our citizens sprayed with pepper spray. You've brought our citizens against our security guards. You thought you'd scare our people by talking about imaginary intelligence reports. You've caused security guards to use disproportionate force. You have inflicted violence on our citizens with only the Turkish flag. I would like to point out to all public officials that no one should carry out an order that is a crime, or else he will not be relieved of responsibility. Congressmans, this event does not include Act 2911. This event is an event to celebrate Republic Day and to participate in the people's celebration of the Republic Day, otherwise it is not a demonstration or action. It is the gratitude and loyalty of the people to the republic and to the founders of the republic. How and how can a celebration of the Republic be banned? Mr. Secretary, if this isn't a opposition to the Republic, please tell me, what is it? You know as well as I do that this event can't be considered a meeting or a demonstration march. Then why did you forbid it? The Republic is not just the name of a regime, Congressman; the republic is also the name of a change of mentality, a revolution of enlightenment. After an anti-emperical war, the republic was founded in 1923, and the revolutions of enlightenment followed. This revolution is the first in the world of Islam. Ataturk carried out a massive social transformation by applying the revolutions of enlightenment. Under the leadership of the great Ataturk, this republic's revolution, its independence against imperialism, its republic against the patriarchy, its secular order against the law, its revolutionaryism against conservativeism, its nationalism, its nationhood against the culture of worship and the culture of biat. That's why you're uncomfortable with the republic and our citizens attending the celebration of Republic Day. Because you couldn't swallow the republic's revolutions and the new mentality that these revolutions have created, the modern, secular and democratic republic. That's why you've cleared out the national and official holidays. The national festivals are not celebrated in the stadiums, they are celebrated in the streets with the participation of the people. You said that, but you did not allow the people who wanted to celebrate in the streets. You interfered with pepper spray on our citizens who wanted to celebrate Republic Day on the streets, who wanted to live in the spirit of the republic. Members of lawmakers, the government is trying to take back the illumination gains one by one every day. We face a rematch against the Ataturk and the Enlightenment Revolution, and a planned design for the evacuation of the secularism principle. The 4+4+4 law that destroys the training union and restrictions on celebrating national holidays are the latest initiatives. With the law of 4+4+4, you have made all education religious. See, inspired by the climate that you created, what does a dean at the University of Centipede say: Why do we call it college? Let's call it madresa, and let's call it schools. Let the curriculum of the imam-Jews be generalized and applied in all schools. The dean says so. Moreover, this dean is a member of the Turkish Academy of Sciences. Don't worry, Mr. Dean, the curriculum of imam-haters has already been implemented in all schools. Again, recently at the University of Van, the symposiums called Medrese (Medresece) were organised at the University of Mus Alparslan, and in the Modernisation Process (Medrese). In short, lawmakers were born in Turkey's madrasa during the AKP period.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0113par0027	Is this about the Ministry of National Education or the Home Office?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0111par0028	So, are we going to live this secular republic, or are we going to go back to the Middle Ages? This is the question and these ongoing attacks have united the republicans and the Ataturkers; this bottom wave has moved within the community; the young old man, woman and woman, filled the fields with Turkish flags. When the government tried to remove the celebrations of October 29th Republican Day from the public with decrees, bans, imaginary intelligence claims, the public's wave of public enthusiasm showed itself as a presence in the Nation on October 29th. Our people claimed our republic, neither listened to unlawful bans, nor had it taken to barricades, broke down all the barricades, and ran to Ataturk, the founder of the republic. Let no man say that he has removed the barricades, that our people have removed the barricades, that our people have broken the barricades. The public's claim to Ataturk and the republic also appeared on November 10th with the same presence. The republic established by Ataturk will never be destroyed. The revolutions under his leadership can never be reversed. You can't bring back these modernity societies, who once met the Enlightenment Revolutions and used the rights these revolutions have given them, that they've acquired. You can't take this community back. See, what does an AKP MP say: there are no restrictions, there are subway studies, and there are measures taken to prevent traffic problems. Are you mocking people? You think our people will fall for that lie? Mr. Secretary, in an interview with a journalist, you say: "You can't trust those who organize the march. Those who organize the march don't mean well. You can't trust the organisers because of the previous events.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0114par0033	I'd be surprised.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0111par0034	That's why we gave you this gene, and we specifically ask the High Council to raise this gene. And I repeat, Mr. Secretary, we don't trust you either. Thank you, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0115par0038	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Ilk. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0116par0042	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the motion of Mr. Interior Minister Idris Naim Sahin, who has abused his duties by the Republican People's Party Group by attempting to impose pressure on citizens who are trying to prevent the use of the most basic freedoms such as freedom to travel with freedom of meeting and demonstration. I hereby salute the High Council. At the beginning of my remarks, two days before the hunger strikes launched in Turkey, a message from the Imralı, which was killed by the PKK terror organization, on the same day, I ask for the mercy of Allah on our 17 martyrs who lost their lives in the helicopter crash, to their families, and to the saintly Turkish nation who lost their lives in the same day. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that the facts behind the handover of our new martyrs on the same day that the hunger strike was ended are bound to be revealed to the mighty Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, with the testimony of our Mr. President, I would like to express what the republic means and that whatever the cause of these celebrations, whatever the cause, is a huge injustice to the Turkish nation. The Republic is the crown, title, and final decision that will live forever. The Republic is an admirable value, mixed with the blood of martyrs, against our blessings and our right to all kinds of lives. The Republic is the noble will of the Turkish nation, which has decided on the power and inspired nation from its identity, its history, and its culture. It is the declaration of the republic to ensure and record that sovereignty is forever concrete in our nation's pure existence and that it relents. This historic agreement is a decisive decree, and there is no argument about it. The blood of the Turkish nation resonates in the sky. God, the souls of our beloved martyrs, who are in every part of our land and in every part of our land, are the eternal guardians of our republic. The Turkish people stood before the fire with faith and certainly did not back down. On October 29th, the national domination, which was announced, melted the chains of captivity prepared to keep them under yokes, shattered the shackles that were trying to be put into our possession. It is a fact that it is not right to consider how and how a national holiday can be celebrated as a subject of conflict and tension. The AKP mentality, in particular, has beaten up April 23rd, damaged the spirit of May 19th, worn out the trust of August 30th. Now, the intelligence received on October 29th has sabotaged the situation, and unfortunately, the events of this purpose did not suit our beloved nation and the state of the Republic of Turkey. The National and Official Liberation Days, Ataturk Days and Historical Days regulations, which were prepared and produced by the AKP, have marred the meaning of the festivals. In this case, even the Turkish flag is banned. Our nation celebrated the anniversary of its taking of its sovereignty directly into its heart, not the founding of BOP, but on the Day of the Republic of October 29th. But no matter what the cause, it must be considered the greatest injustice to this saint nation to have barricades set up in front of our people, who have been thrown into the square to celebrate it from the heart. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as you all know, these discussions have been brought to the media, and the Prime Minister has stated that he did not instruct the removal of the barricades. On the other hand, Mr. President has made a direct statement to the media about the matter. As for the minister -- you have to hand it to him here -- he has again shared his statements that citizens have removed the barricades. It also shows that in recent celebrations, there has been a pollution of knowledge and unbecoming events in this nation. The reason for the motion of the geneoru is that the practices were mentioned in violation of the Constitution and that these practices were not true due to the festival of the Republic's Day, and unfortunately, these riots, the barricades that have been brought to this nation, were not appropriate. A governor who worked under the Minister tried to stop the republican holiday celebrations that this nation had celebrated for eighty-nine years, but our beloved nation did not recognize these obstacles and destroyed the barricades. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, the Interior Ministry is a ministry responsible for the safety of the lives and property of 75 million citizens within our country's borders, so it is one of the most important ministries. We are well aware of the difficulties the Minister has experienced following his opening co-ordinator, Mr. Atalay. Thus, we have all witnessed from time to time that he had a difficult time carrying out his duties. In a few things, I'd like to share with you how difficult his mission is, and I'd like to share these with you from his signed answers. In response to a June 18, 2012, an operational study and captured terrorist testimony, the PKK/KCK terrorist organisation has been considered to be involved in every phase of the drug trade. He himself has promised that eight top executives of the terrorist organization have been added by the US Treasury Department and the Anti-Drugs Organization to the list of the assets to be seized under the Foreign Narcotics Gang Resolving Act. So, Mr. Secretary, on the one hand, is struggling with these events, and on the other hand, in the fight against terrorism. Similarly, an answer on June 4, 2012, also stated that a total of 360,539 files have been filed by the damage assessment commissions from the date of the Law's implementation of the Act on the Fight against Terror and Terrorism, and 132,169 of these applications have been rejected. Thus, the fact that many of the applications have connections with the PKK's terrorist organization shows us how difficult he is on a mission. Dear lawmakers, of course, the Minister's involvement or practices in the Republic Day celebrations are, of course, within the scope of this motion. But since the Ministry of Interior -- as I have just said -- is not limited to these events -- is a ministry that has taken very important roles in maintaining the dignity of society, I would like to say that Mr. Minister's practices on certain issues so far are not true and that in some cases the voice of the mighty Turkish nation is not. One of them is that he was unable to make the necessary efforts to combat terrorism, which is one of the most important issues of the Interior Ministry, in terms of terrorism's most important funding, in terms of the fight against imaginary exports and trafficking, and he was unable to take measures on time. Again, when asked by the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) on May 2, 2012 to answer him, he was asked about the work of the Ministry of the Interior, which some firms in Hakkari and Highova claimed had transferred millions of dollars to the PKK, I regret to say, not in their own writing, but in the Ministry of Customs and Trade's article, which was sent to investigate and identify events. He has only made statements that the Ministry of Customs and Trade has been contacted by the Ministry of Interior and that the necessary measures are being taken to ensure the security of public officials in the area. Dear lawmakers, one of the biggest problems in this country is the fight against terrorism. I regret to inform you that the same answer is the same as the one sent to the Prime Minister by the Ministry of Customs and Trade. Now, that kind of seriousness doesn't suit the Minister who sits in a position like this. At the very least, we'd like the lawmakers who serve on behalf of the nation to give the right answers to the question motions in time. Therefore, this is one of the important issues that the Minister must consider at least in his next work. Dear lawmakers have not been able to stand up to the demands of the nation regarding the Metropolitan Law, which has been issued in the past 15 days after much debate in this Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State has not been able to respond. I don't want to go back to those arguments, but I'd like to remind you of the contradiction in his response to the questions we asked him. To the motions that we have submitted to the conditions of the municipality under 2,000 people of this Law, I am giving you the exact answer of June 1, 2012: (The Constitutional Court's Number 8) Decision, Number 31/10/2008, and from municipalities which have been converted into villages under the temporary Article 1/47 of the Law issued earlier. Under the Supreme Election Board's decision dated 19/12/2008, municipalities participating in the local administration elections are continuing their activities under its 12/02/2009 date and 153 decision, and there is no study carried out by our Ministry on the matter. In response to the motion, which included other questions, in August, there are 869 municipalities in 869 districts with their names on the list listed in Article 44 of the interim law I mentioned in Article 1, which has continued with various judicial decisions, while 6 municipalities have ended their legal personality. Again, similar answers do not contain specific information about the outcome of the municipalities. Later, when we reminded them, he also reported to us in the commission's studies that he had no such statements. But unfortunately, this Constitutional Court has not been able to translate the feelings of the nation, including the decisions, as the government's responsible minister, during the laws that have not been carried out according to the will of the nation, and has not been able to make the necessary challenge for the nation. Dear lawmakers, this is a very important issue that we once again demand and wish that this nation not live during the celebrations of the national festivals that will be held. We don't know if the Minister has a direct connection to the instructions leading to our citizens coming to celebrate, but he will surely explain it himself, but it has hurt the nation and us that our beloved nation has been dragged into such an environment by a governor's decision. Thus, the gene question given in this regard is a valid one. I give my regards to the High Council to reassess, saying that we, the National Movement Party, are in favor of this matter, once again, to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0117par0061	Thank you, Mr. Light. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Mehmet Siam Kesimoğlu is here.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0118par0064	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've been promised to share my group's views on the proposal of the high-value MPs regarding Mr. Idris Naim Şahin, Minister of the Republican People's Party. I hereby salute your grand delegation on behalf of myself and my group. Before we get into this, I'd like to express my two thoughts. One: in the last two days, I'm afraid we've put five of our children in the ground to defend their homeland. I remember these five martyrs and all our martyrs with mercy, and I ask God's mercy, and I offer my condolences to all the families. I've just learned that there's been an attack on a battalion outpost in Şemdinli, and I hope and hope that we don't die and we don't have any martyrs, and that attack will be over. Secondly, it's really important. In previous session, I was deeply sorry to hear that Deputy Prime Minister Arinc, as a lawyer in politics, gave such a low-level speech. I blame him and condemn him for being a lawyer. There's a claim, a claim that needs to be proven. Everybody's got kids, family. No one can question morality, no matter the position or position. Mr. Fine, I trust myself, I want to be judged, remove my immunity. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as it is known, on 1 October 2012, several NGOs filed a petition to Ankara Governorate. The petition included: On 29 October 2012, a press release was to be made in front of the First Assembly building, followed by a march to the Memorial. On 16 October 2012, however, Ankara Governorate did not permit this action. Reason: In violation of the Law on Meetings and Demonstration Walks. Then a statement came from Mr. Prime Minister: there's provocation intelligence, he'll do his job as governor. Dear friends, these are all obstacles. These barriers are openly against our legal system and the Constitution, because in Article 34 of our Constitution, each person has the right to hold an unarmed and non-aggressive meeting and demonstration march without prior permission. Therefore, this decision made by the Ankara Governor is not in accordance with the law. Besides, the event planned to be held in Ankara is not part of the demonstration and march, but a celebration of Republic Day and the continuation of its festival. I'd like to share that determination at the beginning of my words, dear friends. Yes, there was a provocation on October 29th, but the leading role of this provocation was the Governor of Ankara, Mr. Interior Minister and Prime Minister. You started with your curfews, unlawfully banned the holiday; not enough, you blocked citizens from the provinces who wanted to take buses to Ankara, you immediately confronted the objectors with pepper spray. Look, dear MPs, I'd like to show you a picture. This is a picture of a sentence. Mr. Deputy Undersecretary of the Interior is a generalization sent by Mustafa Demirer. I would also like to thank our Manisa MP, Mr. Free Special, who made this discovery. It's secret, rush and day. What's it called? There was an action in Ankara on October 29th, and it was against the law. So, Mr. Secretary, what do you say? Action is the celebration of Republic Day. Is this an act, a celebration of the republic? You're going to look at your own generalization, and if you're looking for a violation of the law, it's in your generality because it's outside of your law, AKP law, Constitution, and law. You'll take care of your generalities, Mr. Secretary. By the way, I have a bureaucrat's signature here, my dear friends. Turkey is a state of law. In the rule of the People's Party of the Republic, we will create a past. The civil servants are officials of the state, not the government, so let them pay attention to their signature. We're going to create a past. I'm saying. Now, in that sentence, it says: "O must be prevented from going to action." The buses leaving the cities must be blocked. It is not enough, you have kept all the entrances to Ankara, you have not brought out of the city into Ankara. Mr. Secretary, who are you?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0119par0078	Home Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0118par0079	Who the hell are you? You're the Home Secretary. Yes, you're the Home Secretary, but where do you get the right, authority, power, and power of the crowd to ban Republic Day?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0119par0080	The law.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0118par0081	You swore an oath on the state of law, sworn a legislature from this stand. You will stand by your oath. Where does your Undersecretary, Undersecretary, Ankara Governor get the authority?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0120par0082	He also forbade Nevroz.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0118par0083	And it was not enough, but they had appointed the police, and the people who went to the nation of the chiefs, and the action was annulled, and return. They took refuge behind their lies. You sprayed pepper sprays on millions of citizens with nothing but pictures of the Turkish flag, Ataturk, you threw gas bombs, you interfered with pressure water, you copied them. What's with all the violence? You're afraid, Mr. Secretary, you're scared, you're afraid of the crowd, you're afraid of the republic, you're afraid of the love of Ataturk, which you can't remove from the heart of the church. This is what you used to do. You tried to stop the Republic from walking from Parliament to the Memorial to give thanks to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who had won the republic. You tried to block those barricades, but the President, the Prime Minister, you, not the Governor of Ankara, destroyed them himself and passed them. That, my dear friends, is the reason for this question. Mr. Secretary, I'd also like to ask you, what happened to the provocation intelligence? If it was supposed to be provocation, why didn't you have the citizens search the area? You didn't set up checkpoints? As Home Secretary, what did you do to keep those people safe? The participants were not involved in any provocative action. Mr. Secretary, there is a duty for you in this situation: you will come to this stand, you will come to this nation's bench, you will tell them where you received this information. You're going to come and tell me from this stand whether it's police intelligence or the National Intelligence Agency or a foreign intelligence organization. Yes, Mr. Secretary, there was a provocation there, but all you did was provoke it. There was an attack on the Republic, there was an attack on the holiday, and there was an indiscriminate force without saying "old, child, woman, man." You attacked with all your might, so what happened? You're defeated, you're defeated, Mr. Secretary. These people also celebrated their feast, and ran to Ataturk, but you were defeated. The collapse of that barricade and the flow of that crowd into the Memorial, that is the beginning of the end of your power, the precious AKP MPs. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here's another good example of your idea of advanced democracy: look, this is a photograph taken from the day of action in that nail. Seventy-three-year-old citizen, exposed to blood, pepper spray, face-to-face, dragged down, and allegedly the wife of Mr Ahmet Davutoglu's uncle. Seventy-three-year-old citizens whose crime is to take care of the republic as a republic, to take care of its country. But you inflicted indiscriminate violence on those with a Turkish flag and an Ataturk photograph. My friend and I just looked online, and Mr. Davutoglu cried when he saw the wounded there while visiting the hospitals in Gaza. Yes, they're wounded, of course we're sad, they're human, but I've never seen the precious ministers of the AKP sobbing at a martyr's funeral. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Examples are very, possible... Look, it's the same violence here. There's no party flag there, only Turkish flag there.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0121par0092	Don't show them, don't show them, they'll be embarrassed!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0118par0093	Look, it's the same here as my dear friends. Now, Mr. Secretary, you've become the Minister of the Interior who celebrates the Republic Day, who gives his young man the Turkish flag, who takes his baby in his lap, and gives pepper spray to his citizens who come to celebrate, who makes the police choke the MPs. I don't want to call you Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Turkey because you don't like those who love the Republic, because you don't like the Republic. The values of a nation.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0122par0095	What makes you say that?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0118par0096	If you loved the Republic, you wouldn't be violent with those who want to celebrate Republic Day, Mr. Secretary. An understanding so opposed to the values of a nation that cannot rule this country without so much understanding the meaning of its own position.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0122par0097	Look at the patch of conflict!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0118par0098	Yes, you have passed through history; you have passed through with your governor; you have passed through with your deputy. You've made history with your cop who kicks his citizen with a Turkish flag, an Ataturk photo, sprays pepper sprays, uses pressure water. You've made history with your great hatred for the Republic. Despite all your efforts, you've moved to history because you couldn't stop the crowd from celebrating Republic Day.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0122par0099	The country is too important to leave to you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0118par0100	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, everyone knows. Sometimes the ruling owners think their power will last forever, and they see themselves in their giant mirror, thinking they can do whatever they want. You thought you were going to ban this nation's holiday. You thought it, but you were wrong. These festivals -- this land is a country, these people are a citizen, this place is a parliament -- are symbols of the developments, great struggles and values that make us who we are, the very foundations of this country's free and modern existence. If you dare to put your hand on the foundations of this being, you will eat the sill of this people as you ate it on October 29th in Nation Square. Know that you will eat that nation's shadow and that nation's shadow in the chest in the first election. I'll write that down, too, dear AKP MPs. Your...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0123par0101	Write it down, then delete it! Then come and wipe it off!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0118par0102	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Don't worry, the citizen will. You know, when you got wet in the same rain, I think your song's changed.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0123par0103	You've been writing for ten years!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0118par0104	Now, time has passed, an unknown ship is leaving this port. You may go into the unknown, but we will never, ever let you take this country to the unknown. Your bans are not enough to prevent this people from celebrating their own holiday. But none of you has the power to come between this people and that of the Ancestors.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0123par0105	You're talking about something imaginary.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0118par0106	The law, the Constitution...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0123par0107	You're delusional.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0124par0108	Please, Congressman, please...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0118par0109	You come in here instead of making small talk, or you come in here, and we'll have an idea, you and I, dear brother.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0123par0110	We'll do it...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0118par0111	It's easy from where you're sitting, so let's see what you got.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0123par0112	We're always ready.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0118par0113	It is clear that such violations of the Constitution will not go unrewarded in any law state for those who celebrate the anniversary of the republic and use such disproportionate force. As a Minister of the Interior, you violated the law, Mr. Secretary, you violated the Constitution, you abused your duty, you used disproportionate violence, and you reached out to Republic Day. You don't deserve to sit in that chair, and that's why you should be accepted, dear MPs. One final point to address, members of lawmakers: What is the main reason why the government is a member of the Minister of the Interior and the Justice and Development Party, which he has long served as Secretary General, is the most fundamental human rights, freedoms, and unlawful position on October 29th? Let's work on that, if you like. Let's talk about the fundamental reason behind this law, the Constitution, and the basic human rights, the fundamental principle of international human rights and freedoms, and the blackened attitude. You are opposed to the dream of being born in a country in Turkey or in a village that floods every autumn, with the resources the state has given you, to go to middle school, to go to high school without money, to go to college on a state scholarship, to save that village from that flood. You're against those who come out of a village, become engineers, build roads, and burn down that remote village. You're against those who fight to make the towns of bandits in the evening, to make cities in our villages, to create malaria, to create 15 million young people in ten years broken from Trahom, to free the children of Mara from the tyranny of the Agha, to make them citizens. You are against those who pierce the mountains and the hills, and build this land with fetters of iron. You are against those who have built a school, a health clinic, a factory in every corner of this country, who bring education, health and technology to every corner of the country, because you are the enemy of the community. Mr. Secretary, if you've come out of Turkey's distinguished province and studied law school, then you've become a occupational officer in a ministry such as the Ministry of Interior, then I'll put aside your practices on the mayorate of the Metropolitan, which is not my job, it's not justice's business -- if you've become the founder of a party approved by 10/1 of the Constitutional Court's rulings, then you owe it all to the Republic, Mr. Secretary of the Republic.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0125par0117	No, to the Republican People's Party!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0118par0118	That republic, founded on October 29, 1923, was a republic that sent teachers to villages so that children could read -- regardless of their political views. It's the republic that got them to go to boarding without money. He gave dorms at universities, scholarships, abroad, boarding studies, scholarship studies. You're a republican child, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0125par0119	You're right every once in a while.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0118par0120	Are you enemies of the Republic, too? Therefore you lift the feasts, and you want the people to forget the republic; and you want the people to forget Mustafa Kemal. Whatever the Republic's work is, whether it's a holiday, a road, a name, or a monument, you want it all up. If possible, you will ban visits to the Memorial. You will eliminate the Memorial if you can, Mr. Secretary of the Republic, who is loyal to his republic and is never authorized to give authority to anyone else. You, in fact, are against the real Mustafa Kemal, and the republic he founded. You know, Mustafa Kemal founded the Republican People's Party before he founded the Republic on 9 September 1923, and you are hostile to the Republican People's Party. You are the enemy of everything the Republican People's Party has done in this country: women's rights, civil rights... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you're against secularism, equality, freedom, everything. Mr. AKP MPs, I want to warn you, I want to warn you: the way you're going is not the way you're going. Mr. Secretary, since you're AKP MP, the same goes for you. Let me tell you what Ismet Pasha, whom you wish to erase from your books and from your hearts, says that even the Republican People's Party can't save you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0126par0126	Save yourselves first.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0127par0127	Wow! He saved you and he's gonna save us. The CHP can't save you either.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0128par0128	Thank you, Mr. Kesimoglu. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, İstanbul MP Sırrıyya Önder.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0129par0131	Don't say anything to the minister, Secret!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0132	I won't.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0128par0133	Don't point me in the right direction. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0135	Mr. President, dear friends, you know we're off a hunger strike. During the hunger strike, I've been thinking a lot about the people of the country, and as far as we're concerned, it's not just my idea, it's my friends' idea -- we've had a lot of regrets about a lot of things. We apologize in front of the General Assembly for all the sins we've taken from Mr. Home Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0131par0137	What's up? What's up?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0138	Can't a man be wise? The Republic means change, transformation, and so do we. CHP's giving the wrong request for a geneorization from the wrong location. At this stage, the contrition also reached a point where I wrote a poem to the Minister. I'm gonna read that poem at the end of this conversation.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0132par0140	May God increase your conversation!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0141	In fact, it's a eulogy.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0133par0142	You've done satire.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0143	No, I'll read it in advance: My sacrifice is for your thick eyebrow, and for your crowning head, If I didn't see it one day, Idris Naim, I'd burn to death!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0134par0147	That's it?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0135par0148	May God increase your conversation!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0149	Now...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0136par0150	Did you write it in the mouth of Aruz?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0151	We'll come to them. The AK PARTY can't afford these genes enough, it's taking them the wrong way. I'd like to show you a little bit of how to afford it, too, humbly. Now, for once, the presence of the Minister is a source of great hope for all citizens of this republic. Because if Mr. Idris Naim is Minister of Interior, I can be anything. Is it a small thing that a republic has accomplished that? In that sense, we owe the Republic and the Minister a great deal. This is the first time you've eaten gas. All of your members of the Internal Affairs Commission have been sent to the police, the governor, the governor, the governor, as many executives as there are. Ask him... you'd have a little conscience. Haven't you ever organized a ceremony of salvation from the accidents, the enemy invasion of the provinces? Weren't you gathering representative enemy forces? Weren't you going to hurt them and save the land from the enemy? The Ministry of Interior wanted to wrap up this Republic Day event with such an event. What's wrong with that?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0137par0154	He saved us from the CHP.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0155	As a representative enemy, you will find it more convenient than CHP members. Because the BDP people have no representation, because they are direct enemies. (BDP lines, applauses) And because we were very gasy and bomb-like, they turned around and made a pan like this, and since the MHP was being very generous, you're left behind, brother. You will be content with your fate and the possibilities of the republic. The result is wealth. He sprayed us with gas... for our own good. During this hunger strike, Diyarbakir is also known for its dust.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0138par0157	Thanks to your city.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0158	They did, they did... and I won't say it's the problem with the county, because I'm not putting a speck of dust on the Minister. Don't make me do this, my group.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0139par0159	Neither do we.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0160	What municipality provides this service? As a municipality, we were on hunger strike in the same ward as Osman Baydemir. He was mortified, embarrassed, really embarrassed. I'll also convey his embarrassment. They were squeezing expensive and special mixed water into houses in expensive TOMA. Have you ever submitted such a service to the public with any of your CHP governorships, any of your municipalities? No.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0140par0161	We can't, you're right.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0162	You come in here, you ask questions.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0141par0163	They presented it in my class.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0164	There's nowhere in Diyarbakir where we haven't been irrigated. And the gas is organic, so it's not like our Minister's going to lie.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0141par0165	There's no harm in it!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0166	Besides, he raises students. See which one of you caressed his head and told the chemistry student to learn that pepper spray? He gave you clues to all this. The point is, you're the one who's going to be given the gene, the whole thing. You don't study, you can't read the future, you don't have the ability to analyze, you don't have the skills of Ataturk, as the AK PARTI. It's a shame, it's a sin! Some of you have been beaten by Ahmet Türk, all of you have been gased. They may say so, but everyone insisted that he was beaten in the nose and punched in the nose. The nose in Ahmet Abi will be covered by a normal nose, and he has been generous. When his nose went out a little too much, the police officer who was running around with his life, trying to make sure nothing happened to my deputy.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0141par0168	Punch hit, punch!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0169	Where the government hits, the rose dies! Didn't the Republic teach us that for years? Why should we be hypocritical now that we've turned to us, if that's what we've learned, Mr. Idris Naim Şahin should be the crown of our heads? I suggest we make a national agreement as Congress. The nationalist movement is ready, the AK PARTY didn't take it to MYK, but we'll convince them somehow, we'll put it in Oslo's agreement. That's all that's left, CHP.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0142par0171	Don't get us involved in Oslo.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0172	Why don't you stop being stubborn and we'll add a non-changing clause to the Constitution: May the Secretary of State remain at our disposal as long as the world stops; may God give us long and healthy life, and no matter how long the government is established in this country, no matter how long the government is established.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0143par0173	The Secretary of the Interior!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0174	The Secretary of the Interior. Why? You didn't object to the unchanging materials for 30 years, so let's just say it's our destiny for another 30 years. Perhaps Allah has written the light here, how will you know?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0144par0176	We didn't object to the unchanging substances for 30 years, and we won't object after that.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0177	So, you see, brother, why are you coming here and slandering Mr. Secretary so much? You're just gonna ruin the capital? If you don't mind the unchanging materials, let's do one less or three more and one more for the Minister. I ask all of you, please, on behalf of our group, don't give the Minister so much attitude! Because he lectures all politicians, saying things that are wise and wise. The Minister's attitude is in line with his sense of epic art, because from his findings on art, we see that he's a man who's obsessed with the theories of art. But epic art is an inconvenience to the audience, to the audience. So come and sit down, I'll give you everything in the form of a daje. He won't say, "You've got to make an effort, dear!" Now, you're listening, you're saying nonsense, you're doing straw dialects, but none of you are choosing to make an effort. For example, let's see...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0145par0180	That's what Shakespeare's uncle was doing! It's the same!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0181	What's Shakespeare? For example, there's logic, there's logic, there's math, there's algebra, there's citizenship. It's because of my cough, the sinus and bronchial enhancement of the gas! He says it doesn't come out wrong. Take this proposition, and God will say so. Make a serlevha, like a sign, and hang it at the entrance of every house. Is that right or wrong? Have you ever come to a crystallization that might express it? No, no, no, And just in case you don't get the right result from wrong, it narrows it down, because once it releases you, it's a little bit of a no-brainer. ▪ Our people who lost their lives lost their lives while smuggling, he says. Is that a lie? Think about it for two minutes. Is that a lie? It's not. So why did you go back and kill him when he was smuggling? because one day you didn't think to ask. Mr. Secretary is describing you for giving up hope. Of course, at the point where life is lost, smuggling is a shadow. Here, decorate this, put it in the gland, calligraphy, really hang it up in the classrooms. But if they hadn't lost their lives and they had been taken alive, he'd be on trial for smuggling. This country has become like this because it's making a big deal out of everything. Mr. Secretary, does he do it badly? What's the big deal? What's the big deal? Aha, the country has become unmanageable. Minimize it, take it in a more reasonable way, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're If this goes on, look, I'm doing my historic duty here, and they're not gonna let us join the European Union or anything, the community of people with no fear. I've looked, and the Minister has no left unsubstantiated, including us. Our hands were broken, if God hadn't shown us those days. It's always a profit to turn around from the wrong side. We have returned from this error at a moment's notice, and you have an eyebrow over your eye again. If we say so, ask us for the bride's account.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0146par0186	You won't say, "Repentances."
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0187	We won't, and we won't. In that case, how do we all learn more wisdom than the Minister, more life lessons...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0147par0188	More gas.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0148par0189	Will there be more gas?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0190	He did something like this: Look, at the point of achieving national unity and unity, he did a job that no political party has ever done. That's all he did was make a dramatic depiction of the Kurds, and one of the AK PARTY voters got up and said, "Why are you talking like that?" He didn't. Do we know better than they do? No. If we knew better, we would have taken 50 percent, not them. So, if that's the case, look, it's a function of converting the masses, and it's a function that's better than chaos, that's what the culture and the community is all about. Mr. Secretary is not only acting in terms of segregation, he stands at a reasonable point, as a matter of fact. The system says down below, the muti wants a skilled traitor. He's making the right choices. What's more, brother? You don't look good either! There's one thing, but it'll be clear in a century, and that's a question of looking for terror in the canvas. Despite all my good intentions and nine days of thinking, I couldn't decipher that wisdom. He commands wisdom, but we don't understand it. I've starved, and now, hopefully, we've begun to feed, and when we have more mental angels, we'll solve that wisdom. All together in peace, brotherhood and peace, and always, as long as the world stands, with our Minister of the Interior, towards happy, bright horizons, as modern Turkey, because the AK PARTI has accomplished a great deal in this country, I confess, no political party has done it. He says, "Whatever it takes, we'll do it." This is the greatest invention of the last two centuries. We couldn't, they did. Enjoy your bath. Every land is ruled by its rightful form and by its rulers, and there is no argument in it. So it's time for us to give our consent to fate. I refer those who say this word to God, and those who do not believe, I declare that I speak it with my heart. Look, I've seen the Commission.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0149par0193	There's no commission. You've got it mixed up.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0130par0194	He was on the committee, you precious bureaucrats. I'm leaving here to expose a misdemeanor by members of the EC PARTY. His witnesses are here. There was a motion to name a district....Muradiye. I said no. I said, "Bkent Arinc." I said, "The AK PARTI has been rejected by the members of the commissioners." The unity of the party, the unity of the party, that's all you've got. You're not so innocent, either. They said the name of the manisa would be......... I said, "No, not half, not mamir paste, Central City." They didn't accept that either. You violated civil law in Maraş. Look, I'm telling you to your face. The children of Dulkadir. They said, "We are no longer using the concept of the Dul. Let the children of Kadir be divorced, according to the civil law." I said, "Let the children of Kadir be divorced." Whoever says that the BDP did not oppose the Metropolitan Bill of Law, it becomes a stone. Whoever's saying Oslo's in agreements... my speech's in the papers like a lion. I objected to all of them, spilled blood, bled. Gene -- every evil has a benefit -- for the first time, the CHP commissioners couldn't ask what the rights of these retired governors would be when they heard a magical concept such as the oslo agreement. We withdrew from the commission in peace. Aha brought it. This is the line that we will follow as opposition: reasonable, constructive, united and united, raising brotherhood, respecting our elders, loving our young ones. When I stop speaking, I kiss the grown-ups' hands, the little ones' eyes, the cheeks of my peers. Take care of yourself.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0150par0200	Thank you, Mr. Commander. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Sinop MP Mehmet Ersoy.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0151par0203	Mr. President, I have been promised by the Republican People's Party on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on the motion for the geneorization of our Interior Minister, Mr. İdris Naim Şahin. I salute your high council. Dear friends, before we get into the question of the gene, I'd like to share with you one more time. First, we need to know that the ministry's most important task, which is to manage the internal security agencies of our Minister, who has been granted the motion to ask for a favor today, is to protect the country, its country and its nation, its internal security, its public order and general morality, its written rights and freedoms in the Constitution, and to keep track of criminals. The Ministry of the Interior will do so by the hand of our governors in our provinces, dear friends. If the duties and responsibilities provided by special laws are separate, Article 11 of the City Administration Law gives the governors a duty and responsibility to take the necessary measures to prevent a very clear crime, to protect public order and security, to ensure peace and security within the province's borders, person immunity, public well-being. At the same time, the provisions for the right to hold a meeting and demonstration march guaranteed in Article 34 of our Constitution have been imposed on our governors and trustees in the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations No.2911, as well as on the rules to be implemented. Of course, it is not expected that the person who wants to use it wherever and when he wants to use it, and those who do not attend the meeting that they call for, without thinking about the effects of basic rights and freedoms, the daily, the legal and private life. For this, the law has been set in stone. In light of these laws, Ankara Governorate declared the venues and routes for the annual meeting and demonstration march on January 16th for 2012. With this, he says: "O Ankarans, citizens of the civil society, you people of the profession, if you are going to conduct a meeting and demonstration march, apply according to the predetermined conditions; in any of these eight squares, in any of these eight squares that I have declared, you can perform your activities in any square you want. In this way, both you will make your voice heard at the security of the state and the daily lives of our citizens who do not participate in this event will not be affected, their freedoms will not be restricted, the public will be allowed to work in peace. If our democracy is a state of law, there will be a rule of law, of course.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0152par0208	Anyone will think you believe in the state of law. You're a barricader, you're a barricader!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0151par0209	Now, to our case, the events of October 29th. Dear friends, here, a youth association has made a decision of its own.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0153par0211	The Youth Society got its application back, and I'm telling you the truth, it got it back.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0151par0212	Wait, wait. He decided on October 29th to rally in front of the First Assembly building, where the Republic was in grave danger, where the country was in dark days, and for reasons like this, to shake off again and start a fight against the reactionaries -- who held the power in their hands -- within the nail. What's this fraternity doing? He will start from the nation's square in front of the First Assembly, he will march to the memorial city, to take care of the republic, to protest its community and its futures. So, what did they do about it? They didn't do anything about it. The gentlemen have decided to do whatever they want wherever they want. Does the Ankara Governor's Office know about this? No. How did Ankara Governor's Office know about this? And to the Ankara Governor's office: "O Governorate, we will organise such an event." We'll be mobilising on your busiest streets that you've previously banned and announced to us, but we need to announce it, but we need to introduce it. We'll set up booths for him, come, let us open these booths. Thus the government knew. Of course, the governorship, who would not tolerate such an illegal, unlawful march...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0154par0215	Have you heard of the Constitution, the Constitution? What's a meeting and a parade? There is no such thing in the Constitution!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0151par0216	... andnotletthem open the booth to promote their illegal march...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0154par0217	It's a crime to celebrate the holidays! We'll celebrate the holidays with your permission!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0151par0218	If you're talking about the Constitution, you should have changed the law in your power for 30 years.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0155par0219	Governor, does it look good on you?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0154par0220	Who do you think you are!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0151par0221	Then don't make him say anything! Don't let him talk!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0156par0222	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0154par0223	Read the article on meetings and demonstration walks in the Constitution!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0157par0224	You're a kind person.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0158par0225	But then let him listen.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0157par0226	Look at what you're defending, for God's sake!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0158par0227	Mr. Agha, please warn your friend.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0157par0228	Is that something to defend, for God's sake?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0158par0229	... Their organs were not allowed by hand, but the matter was forbidden by the media's organs to celebrate Republic Day. It was announced to the public. By the way...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0159par0230	That's what you did! That's what you did!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0160par0231	Mr. Acar, please...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0161par0232	Mr. President, we're the ones who ate the gas! I ate the gas!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0162par0233	Please be patient. We listened to your disciple. Please be gentle.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0163par0234	How do you show us the level assessment today?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0162par0235	Meanwhile, ADD has applied for a press release and has announced that it will join them.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0163par0236	You've failed your leveling exam today!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0162par0237	I'm not talking to you. Please... However, it has already been announced to all public that it is a process where the goal begins to meet there, and it has been announced that participation will be made throughout Turkey. Dear friends, dear fellow lawmakers, where's the press release? So you're going to claim to stack up the hundreds of thousands, and you're going to invite people from all over Turkey, and we're going to walk to the memorial. And you're going to say, "You're all naive, you're the only smart, you're the only smart, you're going to say in the name of this, not the press statement."
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0164par0241	What's wrong with celebrating the Republic?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0165par0242	You wanted a few people dead, didn't you?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0162par0243	So, now, where's the Republican People's Party that made this motion?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0166par0244	What motion?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0165par0245	We were right in it, right in the belly! We walked with pride!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0162par0246	Where's CHP in the illegal and illegal meeting that started these events, that we didn't like, that we didn't like, that we didn't like?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0167par0247	You forbid holidays, you leave a holiday!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0168par0248	You've been governor, you've been governor, what's written in the Constitution?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0162par0249	I'm just explaining with that information. The Republican People's Party, dear friends, is nowhere in this process; it has no such demand; I am celebrating the republic in this square as the main opposition party in this country. What's he saying?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0169par0251	Governor, it's Republic Day, you don't celebrate an invitation!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0162par0252	Just one of the association says I'm going to organize a campaign march. Another says I'll make a press release with thousands.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0170par0253	But it really was your duty to disband that crowd!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0162par0254	Ankara Governorate won't allow it either. That's where the Republican People's Party comes in.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0171par0255	Since you're used to tagging people... the Secretary of Chips, the Secretary of Chips!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0172par0256	Governor, do you believe that?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0162par0257	As always, we will be there from the mouth of the presidents of the government, seeing the opportunity of chaos, civil disobedience and chaos against the government. He invites all his agencies to Ankara.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0172par0258	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0162par0259	Dear friends, if you really want to have an alternative celebration...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0173par0260	We're celebrating that holiday, not the alternative, as the republic's owners. As the rightful owners of the Republic, it's not an alternative celebration.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0162par0261	...if you really don't want to participate in public hugs, fraternizations, ceremonies at the track, then...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0174par0262	Brother, you are the alternative to the republic.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0162par0263	...as the Republican People's Party, you can choose any square you want, and the government will give it to you. But without asking the government, without having any opinion from the government, he decided on his own and...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0175par0264	You've even banned wreaths, wreaths, flowers!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0162par0265	It's not like you to go after associations that try to invade all the streets that people use for hours.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0176par0266	Since when is celebrating Republic Day on leave? Since when?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0162par0267	Of course, these associations, the Republican People's Party, they've all made their calls. The goal was one thing: they had seen and experienced the republical rallies, which had once again been overwhelmed by longing.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0176par0268	Yeah, those were very democratic rallies, so what?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0177par0269	What are you afraid of?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0162par0270	But there was something missing here, and the oligarchic bureaucrats who supported them were no longer behind them.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0178par0271	Why do you need a bureaucrat to celebrate the holidays?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0179par0272	The judge in 2007, the bureaucrats, the AKP MP now!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0162par0273	That's why they didn't find what they were hoping for. So we gave no bonus to those who wanted to use our people for politics and anti-government, who were willing to exploit the First Assembly and the Ataturk, and our flag, to gain a political gain from this place, alhamdulillah. Let it be, for this illegal act...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0178par0274	Citizens did not go to those squares with the Turkish flag to obtain political gains.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0180par0275	Mr. Kesimoglu, please...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0162par0276	If only the noble and reserve staff of the main ranks of your Ankara agencies had been there, let alone asylum in the excuse for those who wanted to come from outside, they wouldn't have taken the challenge. If only 1 percent of the people living in Ankara had respected your call, those squares would have been filled with dollars.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0181par0277	Why did they break down those barricades? How did everyone walk?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0162par0278	You couldn't even do that because, alhamdulillah, the common sense of our people was focused on celebrating their holiday like a holiday.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0182par0279	You forbid military holidays, military holidays! You're here because of the Republic, you're trying to destroy the Republic!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0162par0280	Dear friends, dear MPs, despite all our warnings, despite all our Prime Minister's calls, CHP President and as many as 20 MPs have attended this meeting, which has been called unlawful by Ankara Governorates, and have also illegally encouraged our people to commit crimes by risking their lives.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0183par0281	You've taken a difficult task to defend the Minister. Good luck, Governor!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0184par0282	Mr. Ersoy, we'll pay for this.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0185par0283	Why are you coming now?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0284	No rights, no rights, no law of millions of Ankarans...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0187par0285	Brother, since when is going to the Memorial a crime? Since when do you go to a crime memorial?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0286	...they wanted to show off on the busiest streets without any respect.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0187par0287	Watch your mouth, Governor.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0288	Their mission is only to maintain law enforcement, public safety, and the welfare of all our citizens...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0188par0289	Did you just come up with the law?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0290	...that our law enforcement officers, who are willing to do their duty, did not allow them to do their duty.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0189par0291	Well, well, well!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0190par0292	You used them. No matter who breaks the law, we'll have to answer for it, there's no escaping it.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0293	They used their adjective positions to turn the meeting into an act of disobedience.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0190par0294	We'll answer to the people, we'll answer to those who have seen too much freedom of travel.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0295	So our law enforcement forces tried to break up the meeting, and there were riots, unwanted, and sad visions of all of us.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0191par0296	Brother, if you're so open, why don't you put them on the secret bulletin? You're so right, but why are you sending me a secret order?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0297	In fact, a deputy chief of police has a broken nose and 16 others have been injured.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0191par0298	You're ashamed to say so. Don't send them to celebrate, but don't tell anyone what I just told you. Here, look, look, look at the sentence here. Why are you publishing this?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0299	Dear friends, now I ask you, who is to blame for all this?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0191par0300	Why is this classified? You're ashamed of yourself, that's why it's a shame what you do.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0301	Since you've been in charge, the criminal is the one the law has given him...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0191par0302	Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, look, Mr. Secretary, you will pay for this on the Supreme Court!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0303	...in the beginning of my speech- struggling to carry out the duties...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0192par0304	They call him the social democrat!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0305	...our beloved Home Secretary, Idris Naim Şahin, who has spent the last 30 years sucking the blood of the nation's people's lives to prevent petty crimes from affecting our people's daily lives if necessary, and who has been placed on the target by our terror barons, our women, our babies, our teachers, our imams, our security forces, brutal killers and their co-workers on the plains?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0192par0306	Way to go!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0307	Again, by using all the powers vested by that Law, the governor of Ankara, who tried to protect Ankara's peace and security, the rights, law, freedom of 4 million people who did not attend that meeting, or, dear friends, as if...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0193par0308	Then why is the Prime Minister angry?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0309	...as if the celebration of the Republic was banned...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0194par0310	It's like a lot, like a lot.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0311	...to demonstrate against the government...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0195par0312	You're saying it's illegal. You're saying it's not allowed.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0313	...without following any warning, it will be what I say it is. We don't know the law, we don't know the law. It's not up to us to respect the rights of millions other than ourselves, the law...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0196par0314	Only you were disturbed by that show, and no one else was disturbed!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0315	...isn't it? There's a political rant at stake. In that case, it is necessary for us to exploit both the republic and the Ataturk, the flag and the children and the elderly. Is it the mindset of our greatest national holiday like the Republic that doesn't stop our people from celebrating hand in hand and just celebrating with us?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0197par0316	You're the separatist, you are.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0198par0317	You came to power through the Republic.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0318	Dear lawmakers, dear friends, I would like to take this opportunity to shout once again that the AK PARTY is the name of the movement of staffs that have come out to respond to the people's hearts, to the people's longings, to their dreams. Our goal, our goal, is only to serve this beloved nation, to bring our country above the level of murky civilizations.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0199par0319	Your problem is to destroy the Republic, Mr. Ersoy. You don't believe that either!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0320	We can't have any problems with our republic or the Republic's achievements. We are sane enough to know that our people owe it to our republic to see the present, to see the future, to see the power of their children, whose ideals, their values, are integrated.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0199par0321	Well done, very good!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0200par0322	You change the name of the Republican Elementary School, and name the mother of Acun Ilıcan.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0323	The AK PARTY is a party of understanding that will try to ban the celebration of Republic Day, to unite it with the nation of the state.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0201par0324	Weren't you the one who said the holidays were to be celebrated in the streets? Why don't you let people in?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0325	The democraticized secular republic, which has guaranteed all faiths, is the most important of both our unity and our brotherhood, our development and our development, and our most important value.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0202par0326	He's a power glue, a power glue! Get out of power!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0327	As long as the world stops, our republic will exist.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0203par0328	Bravo, congratulations!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0329	As long as there's power over the AK PARTI, no one can touch the republic, no one can treat it like private property.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0204par0331	Yes, the republic belongs to the people; it belongs to the people.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0186par0332	AS LONG AS THE AK PARTY CONTINUES... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...our interior minister, Mr. Idris Naim Şahin, will continue to fight for the peace, peace and security of this country, as well as for the integrity of our country.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0205par0335	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0206par0336	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0205par0337	Just a second... let him sit down.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0207par0338	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0205par0340	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. Mr. Tarhan, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0208par0342	Hide the transcripts. Hide the records and show them to the grandchildren.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0205par0343	Gentlemen, if you'll just shut up, I'll be able to listen to Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0209par0344	Mr. President, the name of our party has been mentioned as representing our party at an illegal meeting.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0205par0345	Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You have two minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0209par0350	The man who was just on the stand did not know what he was saying with a delusion of anger. I think he learned from his master. You didn't really pass today's level detection test with a violent attitude. Just now it was actually better than Mr. Arinc's level, maybe the level of memory.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0210par0351	Look at your level.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0209par0352	But it still bothered us. That's why I made a promise. Now, I'd like to sum up your mindset, which has just become clear in the mindset of your representative. Now, you actually have a banned and barricaded mindset, but you're having a hard time accepting it, and you're having a hard time accepting it, and you're having a dilemma. You have a bartending mentality. In fact, you have a toxic mindset that fills innocent people with poison gas. I know it bothers you, too. That's what your tantrums are about. He calls the holiday celebrations even an assassination, as your Prime Minister said. You actually have a panzer mentality that makes it look like an assassination. You're uncomfortable with this, too. You have a mindset, Mr. Secretary, that prefers the public to flip over instead of celebrating a holiday. The whole country knows that, you have a flip-flop mentality. You have a mindset that believes only in intelligence stories itself, intel, tagger -- newer, very fresh -- as you did in Harzat. You have an intelligence mindset that sets an example for your governor, a broken-door intelligence officer.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0211par0355	Look at your own past.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0209par0356	You have a dove to terror, a hawk to the people. You have a false and soulless mindset of public shepherding, spanking the back of the neck, Mr. Secretary. You have such an irresponsible mentality that says, "If only there had been a few bodies. " You came out of that show filled with unhappiness. That's right, despite all your blockages in this mess and cherait, $1,300,000... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in this case, Mr. Secretary, you've been wrong in your mind.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0212par0360	In the name of the government...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0213par0361	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a point. In his speech, Mr. Ersoy spoke as if there was an act contrary to the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations 2911, and based his speech on this thesis. However, there are exceptions in Article 4 of the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations 2911. See, according to Article 4 (b), the meeting, the ceremony, the festival, the reception, and the send-off are outside the scope of this law. Therefore, the march and visit to the Memorial on October 29th cannot be assessed under the Law on Meeting and Show Marches. I wanted to present it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0214par0365	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Mr. Idris Naim Şahin, Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0215par0372	Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party, Muharrem Tün and his friends, regarding the illegal meeting and demonstration march that was ordered to take place at Ankara Nation headquarters on October 29, 2012...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0216par0373	It's not illegal, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0215par0374	We're discussing whether or not the motion for the young person will be taken into consideration. Our parties and political parties have just voiced their opinion. Thank you very much for the constructive criticism and suggestions. And I would like to share my views with you as much as time has given me, and in some ways, I would like to enlighten you and our beloved nation. I hereby salute our High Council. Mr. President, I'd like to share with you a few important issues at the beginning of my remarks. First of all, I'd like to point out that I'm not offended by the fact that the Turkish Grand National Assembly is using an important control mechanism, such as the geneor, because I believe in the benefit of discussion, discussion, information. In addition, each discussion gives us new opportunities to understand what we do and some facts. He used to make a BDP gene motion about me, take it, give it again. Since I don't think there's been any orders from headquarters lately, the Republican People's Party has chosen to fill in this space and continue its role. He also considers this motion in this context, and I consider it an opportunity to enlighten our esteemed lawmakers as to what happened during the October 29th Republic Day celebrations. The reason for the motion is a series of allegations, such as law enforcement uses excessive force, the activity is not part of Law 2911, and freedom of travel has been blocked. It's natural to make such claims, and I consider it to be a different point of view, but I find it unfortunate that Parliament's establishment, which is one of the constitutional rules of control, should be used in a case of extraordinary importance, is in the face of the public eye and is being built on certain fictions, although there are no serious grounds. On the other hand, I'd like to present a sentence that exists in the gene text to your attention in order to reflect the mentality of those who submitted this motion to the gene. I'm reading the sentence from the text exactly: it goes on to use public power to exert pressure on citizens who embrace the basic principles of the Republic to abuse their position. It is never possible for us to accept and condemn this notion and segregation that separates our citizens in the form that embraces or does not embrace the republic.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0217par0379	We're not separating the citizen, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0215par0380	The Republican People's Party, as he has always done, has not been able to escape the position of a party that produces artificial problems, contests the solutions, complains about the solution, complains about the usual turmoil -- one step ahead -- of the anarchy. We believe that everyone who lives in this country is more republican than those who hold up the republic and its principles. I'd like to ask you from here, who is endangering our country's social peace? Who discriminated among our citizens and put them out on the street for alternative celebrations? I leave this segregating mentality to the public's appreciation. First of all, let me make it clear that Republic and Republic Day is the most important common value of 75 million of our citizens. Our common value is no one's monopoly, but it's not and it shouldn't be the subject for someone to argue when they want to. The celebration of Republic Day has been celebrated in unity, unity and national unity in this country for eighty-nine years. As EC PARTY governments, we continue this tradition today by strengthening it from the day we came to power. As some claim, we have neither thought nor behavior to prevent the celebration of Republic Day, nor are we likely to be able to do so. [[Noises from CHP rows]] But let those who accuse us of what is forbidden, first let them look at what has gone before them. Unfortunately, this is not the first time the Republican People's Party has made an alternative celebration this year. When did he do it? In the 25th year of our Republic, in 1948, he made a similar effort to celebrate. In 1948, the Republican People's Party and Republican People's Party will be celebrated with a special programme sent to the district and borough organisations by the Republican People's Party. The Republican People's Party, founded on 9 September 1923, combined the party's anniversary celebrations with the celebration of October 29th, and failed to separate society on that day, as it is today.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0218par0387	What does that have to do with anything, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0219par0388	Pay your dues, and pay your dues.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0215par0389	People from the Democratic Party did not participate in these celebrations at that time. The Republican People's Party wanted to move citizens from various provinces to Ankara to perform a body show in Ankara.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0220par0390	What's it to you, what's it to you?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0221par0391	Well, congratulations, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0215par0392	...then he caused the deaths of 40 of our citizens who were asked to be brought back from Kırıkkale, Ankara. Today, the Republican People's Party, which claims by our government that it forbids the public from celebrating the holiday, again, in 1949, banned public and political parties from attending the holiday celebrations.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0222par0395	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0223par0396	You weren't even born then, you weren't even born, come to this day, to this day.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0224par0397	Mr. Serindağ, please, Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0225par0398	The Council of Ministers has made a decision that year banning official parades at the track, including political parties, riders and pedestrians, tradesmen and citizens.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0223par0399	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary wasn't born at the time.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0224par0400	It's okay, honey.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0225par0401	Only troops, military schools and scouts have been decided to attend the ceremony. The Republican People's Party's banned decision in 1949 was also protested by tens of thousands of citizens in various parts of the country.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0226par0402	Don't be afraid of God, Mr. Secretary, you're talking about 80 years ago.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0225par0403	It's a typical Republican People's Party mentality. It's the main opposition party's best job from time to time to distort things as it suits you. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are completely unrealistic and non-responsive in the motion for a gene.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0227par0406	Oh, come to him.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0225par0407	Since 1936, Republic Day ceremonies have been held at the Hippodrome in Ankara.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0227par0408	Aren't you the one who said, "Let's celebrate on the streets"?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0225par0409	The ceremony, as it has been celebrated for seventy-six years, took place this year in the capital, in the Hippodrome. But the Republican People's Party, as a continuation of its single-party rule habits, is that, like the Peace and Democracy Party's alternative Friday attempt, is to pursue a number of legal and illegal organisations...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0227par0410	You're the one who negotiated with the illegal organization.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0225par0411	...in an attempt to celebrate an alternative Republic Day celebration, the failure to separate our people on such an important day, the embodiment of our national unity and unity and unity.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0228par0413	Mr. Secretary, tell me which are the illegal organizations. You're the Home Secretary...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0229par0414	Mr. Acar, Mr. Original Day, Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0230par0415	But, Mr. President, he's saying things that aren't true.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0229par0416	What should we do, dear, he's defending himself, what should we do?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0417	My dear friends, a demonstration that the Republican People's Party later owns and supports for political gain has been applied for by various NGOs to Ankara Governorate. In a review of these applications by the governorate, the request has been assessed as part of the Law on Meetings and Demonstration March 2911...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0230par0418	You don't believe that either!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0419	...and the meeting has been made clear in the relevant articles of Law No. 2911, the way, the conditions and procedures to be applied in the use of the right to perform march. According to the law, meetings and demonstration march in Ankara have already been set and routes.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0230par0420	Since when is celebrating national holidays a crime?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0421	These places have been publicly announced in accordance with the procedure...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0232par0422	You're trying to get rid of national holidays, Mr. Secretary, you're trying to make me forget.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0423	...there is no nation or monument that is the subject of demand in these places. In Article 22 of the same Law, the parks, temples, public service, and facilities...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0232par0424	There will be no celebration of the feast, Mr. Secretary, there will be no celebration of the holiday!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0425	..and there is no meeting within a mile of the Turkish Grand National Assembly....and on their extensions......................
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0233par0426	Mr. Secretary, Melih Gökçek performs a ceremony every day in Kızılay. Is he taking the day off?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0427	There are no demonstration walks on inter-city highways. There are rules, that's the law.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0233par0428	Is Redbeard on this list, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0429	But the law of the Republican People's Party is probably written in another book.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0233par0430	There's a permit for Arabesque artists to leave, but why isn't there a Republican march?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0234par0431	Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0432	In this framework, because of the negative impact of general life, public order, foot traffic... [[Noises from CHP rows]] Mr. Acar... ... Places and routes have been determined that there is no legal or actual possibility for the action to be carried out. In addition, the European Convention on Human Rights, which our country is a party to, has been decided that the rights of the European Convention on Human Rights can be restricted under Articles 9, 10, 11 and the rights laid down in accordance with Article 14 of our Constitution.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0235par0437	Do lawmakers have pepper spray in Europe?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0438	According to this, preventing crime, public safety, public order, general health...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0236par0439	So it's a crime to celebrate Republic Day?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0440	...or limiting the rights and freedoms of others. In accordance with the issues and grounds that have been explained, it is clear that the international legislation, the Constitution, and the law have imposed restrictions and bans on this action. For this reason, the meeting and demonstration march planned to be held in front of the National Assembly of the First Nations has been considered an illegal act, and has been reported to the applicants, legal ones, on 16 October 2012, when our Ankara Governor will not allow this demonstration march. Despite this declaration, groups have insisted on carrying out this illegal act under the guise of a Republic Day celebration. It has also been assessed that there are some illegal organisations behind the scenes and that demonstration march that is intended to be organised is open to provocations, based on information that has been sent to our security units.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0237par0444	Late, they're stories, they're all stories!
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0445	The bet that aims to disrupt the peace and quiet of our people is our most basic mission as a ministry to take the necessary security measures to prevent any illegal activities and activities that the provocative groups plan to do. There is a dissertation of ignorance: Why were there no search points created for the safety of the people? ▪ Search points are placed for permitted demonstrations and meeting walks, no search points for unauthorized persons.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0238par0447	So, who's gonna keep them safe?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0448	The fact that you know this is a basic fact that we accept it, but clearly you don't know it. In this case, Ankara Governorate has taken the necessary measures to ensure the safety of our citizens' lives and property, public order and security. On the other hand, we stand behind every legitimate search for rights, thought, expression and organization to the end. The reforms our EC PARTY has made in the field of fundamental rights and freedoms throughout the ten years of our governments' power are the most concrete indicator of this view and this fact. However, no one has the right to claim rights illegally, to perform illegal acts under various coveres, to attack our security forces, to seize the rights and freedoms of our fellow citizens, to act as criminals by our laws. Mr. President, I would like to remind you one more time of the events and events of that day on October 29th: the 15-member delegation of Republican People's Party lawmakers has placed a wreath on the Ataturk bust in Ulus. It's 11 o'clock. The group, including 20 Republican People's Party MPs, has reached 10,000 people in front of the First Assembly. At 11:15 p.m., when the Republican People's Party's General Party arrived in the area, the group at Baruthane Crossroads attacked the security guards with various objects that they attempted to breach the security perimeter, a short-term intervention in this group was carried out by the group in front of the First Assembly at 12:20 p.m. when the group in front of the First Assembly attacked the security forces in a collective manner.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0239par0454	Police brutality, police brutality, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0455	... that the groups that were tried to be disbanded after the intervention were recovered and about 15,000 people were walking from the vicinity of Ataturk Boulevard, Tandoğan Square and Trust Park to the Memorial Square, where at around 2:30 p.m., the group in question was distributed normally at around 16.20 p.m.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0239par0456	Did you see it from the helicopter, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0457	... a total of 16 security guards, including our deputy chief of police, were injured during the incident. The fact that some of the groups gathered that day hid behind our MPs and attacked our security forces clearly shows that the real goal is not to celebrate the holidays. Those photos, those photos, are the honors of the Republican People's Party! (CHP rows) It's the helmet that's wrapped around the police officer's neck -- it's the white ball that you see -- we see Republican People's Party holding the police officer's neck and attacking. So here we see people who have been throwing hurtful objects.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0240par0460	Shame on those who throw gas bombs on the President General.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0461	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, all of this has happened in a way that our great nation can see with its full reality.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0240par0462	Shame on those who throw gas bombs at their MPs.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0463	I'd like to bring up a few more important issues on the basis of the motion. On October 29th, it was alleged that while police sprayed pepper spray and attacked our citizens, I inspected the area from the helicopter and directed events. It is true that on that day, I traveled in helicopters, helicopters, and traveled in order to observe social events from the air...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0240par0464	That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0465	...but it didn't happen the way that someone and this young man claimed.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0241par0466	You denied it?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0467	It is known that at the time of the attacks, the police intervened, I was present at the Republican Day ceremony at the Hippodrome. However, by a newspaper, there was a perception that I was watching police intervention from helicopters at that time, using a photo that had been edited just to defame myself by the principles of the press and the ethics of the profession and the ethics of the profession. However, this image from the helicopter used by the newspaper was edited from the photographs I had taken on trips to the southeast. Soon after the truth came out, the newspaper removed the photo and had to apologize to myself, but the Republican People's Party had not yet made it to the line of apology. Black propaganda on October 29th was not limited to this alone.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0242par0469	Mr. Secretary, who sprayed the gas, who squeezed the water?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0470	Again on social media, an anonymous photo has been released defaming our police. In this photo, a little boy with a Turkish flag...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0243par0471	You're showing the wrong picture.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0472	You see it wrong, it's right here. ...of being chased by a riot police with a baton in his hand. Just like you, the press is on the run.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0244par0474	Is the gas boring or not? Did he or did he not spray the women on the children?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0475	And then it turns out that this photo was completely fictional and incompatible with morality, just like it was done to me.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0244par0476	Is that a montage, too?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0477	The aim of all of this is to speak ill of our police, our government and our state. It should be known that these actions will not achieve their goal in any way, and that our police will carry out their mission without hesitation, no matter what the cost. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, allegations of such weariness, aimed at our Prime Minister and person, are constantly brought up by the main opposition party. Just yesterday, on the website of a newspaper, a Republican MP, Mr. Prime Minister, has made an ugly and low-level slander regarding my term as Deputy Secretary-General of Istanbul. He has claimed that we have tagged the municipal staff as Turks, Kurds, Alevi and Sunni. Now I'd like to ask this deputy if it's appropriate for a man of honor and honor to make such a slander without any concrete information or documentation. I commend this to your high council and to our esteemed nation. If you have any concrete information or documents regarding your claims, explain them, and if you cannot explain them, I declare you a mufter here. [[Noises from CHP rows]] In fact, when we look back on the Republican People's Party's history, we're looking at what part of the labeling business has become routine, and we're looking at what part of the...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0245par0482	What ministry does the governor-in-law in Tucson belong to?
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0483	We all know he's been victimized. We're the ones who were accepted by the referendum on September 12, 2010, and we're the ones who removed the tagging with the constitutional amendment that you disagreed with, the AK PARTY Group, that's the group.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0246par0485	Come to Hozat. Come to Hozat.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0231par0486	It has become a habit for you to generalize an exceptional event that took place in Tunceli, saying that it was done throughout Turkey, and to doodle at every opportunity by distorting events. However, this incident in Tucson was discovered by us, and immediately legal action on the subjects was initiated. As a result of the investigation, whatever is necessary will be done. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As a result, none of the allegations and slanders involved in the motion for a full-blown motion against me are incompatible with the truth. Based on these slanders, I'm not allowed to be given a gene to confuse our citizens, with logic and good intentions...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0247par0489	It's not democracy, Mr. Secretary, it's fascism, fascism.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0248par0490	Time's up, Mr. Secretary, time's up.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0249par0491	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0250par0492	Despite all of our statements, I'm transferring those who continue to doodling campaigns to our nation, and I'm giving our nation a gene for Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0249par0494	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0250par0495	I wonder what good it would do to this country if a sense of unsubstantiated, defiant and biasedness would do to this country.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0251par0497	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0249par0498	I can't sit down like I couldn't shut you up, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0250par0499	Despite all these mind-boggling and defamation campaigns, we will continue to walk, serve, and work decisively on the path of service to our nation and citizens. Our greatest support is our beloved nation. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0249par0502	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0252par0503	Do a flip, Mr. Secretary. Do a flip on your way out. Give me a flip on the way out! You're telling the citizen, and I'm asking you to give me a flip.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0253par0504	Mr. President, there's bullying our group.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0249par0505	Mr. Tarhan, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0253par0509	Well, I'm not really happy about it, so it's more than a thousand times, Mr. Secretary. If you call dozens of democratic mass organizations, such as the TGB, ADD, Republic Women's Association of Women, Mr. Secretary, you're illegal, you're illegal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Actually, I realize we've been criticizing you a little too much today, believe me, I think we've gone a little too far. I could tell from the way you were blushing and the way your hands were shaking. Actually, you're a joke. You're a joke. But as noted on a social networking site about you, in fact, you're human after all, Mr. Secretary. You're a man who can laugh when he sees a beautiful American actress, who can actually stand on two legs and eat his food, who can handle all of this, and you're actually so critical, Mr. Secretary. We've been a little too hard on you, and I think we've got you cornered. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0254par0515	Not in the corner, but in the square, in the...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0255par0516	Now you've done the flip. What happened? You were in a good mood earlier, you just flipped.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0256par0517	Mr. President, there's teasing.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0257par0518	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0256par0520	Dear friends, if it's funny, it's serious, if it's serious, it's funny. Something called alternative Friday, I think you've also had a little bit of theology, the terms of Friday are divided into two: body conditions, health conditions. It's good to remember them all together. He said, "Being a man is nothing but an excuse, and a place of refuge. Health conditions: time, community -- I will not go into details -- city, mosque, permit, law. All of this is available in Diyarbakır. When you say "alternative Friday" to her, she's as far away as a partner, God forbid! Now, this is the first one. Secondly... we can give the person who wants something concentrated about it. When the theologian doesn't come in, I have to go in, Hajji. Now from headquarters... look, I've made such a strong speech, and don't ever speak to us again. He got up, Mr. Minister said, "They probably don't give orders because they don't take orders from headquarters, but he's already broken a pot like this. The longer the world stops, the Minister said, "We've listened to the MPs' speeches. The ACK de Kurdistan has decrypted it in its own way, like a pocket rescue or something...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0258par0524	Slavery, slavery... let me help you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0256par0525	Slavery, yes. He did this kind of decryption. Now, that kind of intelligence should be appreciated, my friends. Let's not be ungrateful, stay with us as long as the world stops. So there's a problem with listening. This headquarters marargah didn't call or anything... We'd like to extend our regards to you if you'd be so kind as to reassemble those matters.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0259par0530	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0260par0531	Minister of the Interior, Mr. Idris Naim Şahin's motion to ask for a motion to ask...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0259par0532	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0260par0533	You're welcome... Mr. Tarhan answered...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0259par0534	Sir...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0260par0535	Wait a second... let me vote after that. Talks have been completed on whether or not to bring up the motion on the motion on the motion on Mr. İdris Naim Şahin. Now, I'm going to vote on whether or not the motion to ask for a gene will be raised. All those who have agreed to the motion for the motion to be brought up... those who have refused... the motion for the gene is not accepted. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0261par0543	Mr. President, time has passed. So you didn't have to.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0260par0544	Okay. Because Mr. Tarhan answered.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0261par0545	No, in the pictures, he mentioned the deputy wrapped around the police's neck.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0260par0546	You can talk, I haven't hung up yet.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0262par0547	Tomorrow it is.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0260par0548	Not tomorrow, I'll give it to you now. Two minutes. Come on in. Tomorrow, I gave him five minutes off the agenda, and we'll see each other from now on.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0263par0549	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-20sit03spe0260par0550	Under the decision taken, it is Wednesday (November 21st 2012) at 14 p.m. to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of draft and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
