tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 123°th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. The first word outside the agenda belongs to İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, who wants to talk about the problems that will occur after closing the courts and the closure of these courts in many districts. Here you go, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0002par0009	Mr. President, I give all of you my regards. Dear friends, last week, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, prosecutors and judges were unable to appoint judges and prosecutors in some of our counties. First it was said that the judges and prosecutors who were appointed from these districts were appointed, but no one went to these districts. No one understood anything at first; then they were told that the courts in these districts would be closed. Dear friends, with the verdict last week, the courts have been closed in 146 counties.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0003par0012	There are ovaries and Saimbeyli.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0002par0013	Right now, our 146 districts, judges and prosecutors have been reassigned from there, they haven't been transferred there; these courthouses are in fact now... and last week, the Council of Judges and Prosecutors has made a decision, which courts will be connected to which courts.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0003par0014	There's no need.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0002par0015	My dear friends, the Republic of Turkey is a state of law and the basis of the Republic of Turkey is legislation, execution and judgment. That's how administrative division was made.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0003par0016	That's what you think, Mr. Mevlüt.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0002par0017	Legislature, executive, judicial, social state in districts and cities is essential. Now, when the courts are closed in these counties... And I'll tell you something else, and I'll tell you, of course, friends, I think in this House, my friends, my lawyer friends, who are the most professional groups. So as a professional group, this is a congressional council of fellow lawyers -- as I know it -- I think that 100 or so of our MPs are lawyers, so they're the highest professional group. In a council with the highest professional group, we should have discussed exactly what such a fundamental issue brings, what it will take, the destruction it will do in the districts and in these areas, but so far we've been watching the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors stand at a desk. A lot of people come from the provinces, and you accept them. I saw it last week, even the day before, from the Seldi district of Manisa, where Free Bey is here -- the mayors of all parties, mayors of all parties, all occupational organisations, all in one fist, we want our court back. The removal of a courthouse from that county is the cutting of one of the borough's life vessels. So I really agree with the people of Selden about this. I'm short on time, friends, so I'm going to give you three examples of the decision made here. There was no administrative structure, some of the district courthouses that were closed were given another one. There's three samples here. Now I'll give you an example from Istanbul. There is a village two kilometers from Çakca, which is not related to İstanbul Çaktrak, but is a village, Beyşeş. This is in the District of Albanianköy. Albanianköy and Beyşeşış are 35 kilometers.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0004par0021	Adornment.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0002par0022	Adornment. But because there is no court in the Albanian village, he must go to Gaziosmanpaşa, 80km away to the courthouse. The right to defend is a constitutional right, especially to my fellow lawyers: these closed districts have been stripped of their right to defend themselves. It is indeed a constitutional offense to send people to a district 85km, 90km away, considering the administrative structure here, where they are being taken away from their rights. Dear friends, we have to re-examine these closed courts in some way... to address the victims of the victims of our counties. This is a matter of law, a matter of defense. You'll make the best defense, you'll take care of the victim's rights. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0005par0028	Thank you. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Kars MP İstiye Birtane, who wants to talk about Kars. Here you go, Mr. Onete.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0006par0033	Mr. President, I've been promised to share with you the concerns and solutions of Kars. I salute you all. The problems I'm going to count as Kars are common problems with many of Turkey's provinces. But there's no other province that's been stopped by the state, called the peasant, the farmer, the farmer, the farmer, the shopkeeper, the cityman, the unemployed. We're improving, we're the world's second largest economy. Kars is going backwards because Kars also lacks the most basic services in the municipality. The infrastructure, the road, the water problem is still unresolved. Seventeen neighborhoods are given water for two hours a day. The number of neighborhoods given water is only four. There is no healthy water in hundreds of villages, including Chatak, Flatgate, Karabakh, Bacala, Kesko, Pakran villages. The animals of the Chatak villagers have been destroyed for years, and have been exposed to the stream water between the villages and the meadows. The Mukhtar has applied several times, no results. All the garbage from the city's military districts, their hospitals are being dumped in the Montenegro neighborhood. The garbage treatment facility is down. The garbage that covers an entire area spreads all the way to the middle of the house garden. The stray stray dogs are all over the neighborhood. It's a shelter, but the dogs are still out on the street. Again, the canal in Aydınlıevler neighborhood near Mehmet Akif Ersoy Elementary School is full of sewage water and garbage. It threatens both the health of the children and the neighborhood. There are no parking and public toilets in the city, and traffic lights have just begun to be set up after the motion for questions. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, whose economy is based on animalism, this livelihood of the people of Kars is about to be destroyed. Entrance prices increased by 100 per cent. There are no other jobs. Not even a nail crashed in the organized industrial area. We were with the peasant this year in October. What they tell us is this: We have increased our teeth in the winter. We're in debt to Zabot and the zawer. In the summer we said, "Allah is great." Summer's here, the debt's at the throat, we're giving the milk to the zabot until the snow falls. We've got the animal, we've got the butter, we've got the chechi, we've got the cheese, we've got the kilogram from the store, we've forgotten the taste of red meat. If we sell milk for 50 cents, 1 kilo of milk, we can't drink a cup of tea in coffee. There's a drought in Kars, most of the animals are dying, there's no precaution and no help. A peasant with five cows can't plant 50 acres if he sells these cows. He's trying to figure out how to get the crop to the door when he says fertilizer, seeds, diesel money. We're giving credits, we're getting support. It's been said, there are dozens of documents for loans, officials vouching, real estate properties. Direct agricultural and animal support premiums are shared between the district and the relatives of the AKP, not a penny for the village. The Digor Agriculture Loan Cooperative has been shut down. The co-operative that was established 25 years ago in the village of alem still hasn't been given an animal. Between 98 and 99 farmers' loans, Arazoglu, Cırçırgan, Çirme villages were followed by 11 thousand liras of execution. The government, particularly the Hicazi meat company, has opened spaces for large companies and markets, pushing the feeder out of the market with the use of imported meat and live animals. Public service is over, the courts of Digor, Selim, Susuz and Akyaka districts turned into villages have been closed. Mr. President, what do the numbers mean in front of this table? Just last week, one of the young men who slaughtered each other for $10 at the Kars. A new, realistic, permanent precautionary package is needed to free the people of Kars, who can't even afford cigarettes, who aren't employed, who are crawling around in coffee corners. We call upon the government to show sensitivity to the problems of Kars. From here, I speak to my fellow citizens of Karsli: Let's say that the system that has taken away the peasant's wheat, his bread, his flesh, his milk, let's say, together, let's say, stop. On this occasion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0007par0041	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Aydın MP Bkent Tezcan (Administrator İlhan Selçuk) who asked for the anniversary of the death of journalist Ilhan Selçuk.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0008par0045	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today is June 21st. Today is the longest day of the year, so it's the brightest day of the year. On the brightest day of the year, we lost one of our country's greatest, most important intellectuals. On the 2nd anniversary of our loss of Ilhan Selçuk, we humbly bow to the memory of our sending him to immortality and eternity. Dear friends, Ilhan Selçuk was a great journalist. Ilhan Selçuk was a great writer. Ilhan Selçuk was a great patriot. Ilhan Selçuk was a great Republican. Ilhan Selçuk, most important of all, was the owner of another mission that was of great importance today; Ilhan Selçuk was one of the most important freedom and democracy fighters of his age. Ilhan Selçuk dedicated much of his life to the struggle for freedom. Whenever there have been times of coups in Turkey, which have interrupted democracy, which have eliminated freedoms, the coupists have always felt the need to settle with Ilhan Selçuk. In those oppressive, fascist times of March 12, Ilhan Selçuk was resisting torturers at Ziverbey Mansion. When they blindfolded him during the interrogation, they told him that he was in the hands of Kontgerilla. They said that when no one was talking about the deep state in Turkey, when no one was talking about the contrastilla, Ilhan Selçuk stood with honor against the countergerilla torturers, it was a symbol of the honorable resistance. Dear friends, on September 12th, on the fascist junta of September 12th, Ilhan Selçuk received a taste of the pressures of that period; his writing was blocked; his newspaper was shut down; and at that time Ilhan Selçuk was declared the archenemy of the deep state, those who eliminated democracy. He did not flinch in those days, nor did he write under the umbrellas of the juntas, nor did he speak under the umbrellas of the juntas in those days; rather, he bravely resisted the coup against democracy, and, unfortunately, in the late 2000s today, he was the target of the coupgers, again, during the days of the civil coup. Dear friends, they said that Ilhan Selçuk, who has been fighting the deep state for many years, who has been the target of the deep state for many years, had been taken into custody to steal this black spot, called Ergenekoncu, the deep state, and if we hadn't sent him to eternity, perhaps today he would have been the defendant of that case. In fact, Ilhan Selçuk was really an Ergenekonist, but not Ergenekoncu, who reflected the indictments, but Ergenekoncu in the epics, who was the Ergenekon in Ergenekon, who was the real son of this nation, who had the faith and power to melt iron mountains in the most difficult times of this nation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, the last words of Ilhan Selçuk were: "There is another period ahead of Turkey, the period of democracy and the struggle for fundamental rights and freedoms." Yes, there is another period ahead of Turkey, and there is another period ahead of it, and we will do what we have to do, Mr. Ilhan Selçuk. We bow before you with respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0009par0055	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'll have them read separately. Since the first parliamentary survey motion I'm going to read is more than 500 words, a summary of the motion will be read, but the full text of the motion will be added to the Tutor Magazine. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, we make it necessary to open Parliamental Research under Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of the Constitution in order to determine problems related to the organisation of workers and workers in the union to be identified, to remove obstacles to unionisation, to be fired, not to be subject to free permits, and not to be subject to actual solutions. 22.11.2011 [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] (x) (10/325) The original Parliamentary Research Investigation is included in the full text of the Charter. Following 1980, the further functioning of the laws and unionisation brought to break the unionisation of workers has become the biggest problem of the trade union struggle. The legal barriers to unionism, for example, are increasing with the crisis, with the amendment of the law, which regulates the need for notary approval, making it easier to be a union. They are even more victimised by the threat of dismissal and the fact that it means punishment by the employer. Many of the workers they were unioned with earned their extradition or compensation by continuing the organisational and legal struggle, by the right to democratic action and demonstration. On the other hand, the obstacles to becoming a union start in the private sector, increasing in municipalities, international companies, and large local companies. Obstructions and problems in the way of unionisation can only be known in light of the media's information and some trade unions' own research. The last time science was discussed was as soon as employees of the Information University were unionized, three employees and a professor were laid off. Thus, being a unionist is even more difficult in some workplaces, while it has become a serious challenge in almost any line of work, and this negative situation is increasing with the employer's excuse for economic crisis. Although there is no definitive data on layoffs as a union member, 42,000 workers have been laid off in the last two years, according to Turkish-Busk's July 2011 data. Most of the layoffs took place in the metal industry, according to the Turkish-business union report. According to the report, 4,208 workers in the automotive and metal sector have been laid off in the last two years, while 1,000 150 organised workers have been given free leave. In the cement-seramic sector, the employment agreement for a thousand, 233 workers from Chimse-Business was terminated, 2,217 workers were granted a free leave of absence. Meanwhile, in February, 207 members of the General Mining-Busk lost their jobs, 59 members of the Tree-Busk, 29 members of TEXSIF, 23 members of Tektüda-Busk, 6 members of TÜMTIS and 1 members of the Turkish Harp-Busk. In total, 5,766 Turkish-Business members were laid off last month, while 4,39 others were given free leave of absence. In view of the last five months, about 35,000 members of Turkish-Busk's various sectors have been laid off. At the same time, about 12,000 members of the confederacy were allowed to work for free and 19,000 workers half-paid. Most of the members were fired by Turkish Metal. The union's number of suspended members in the last five months has reached 19,693. The results of Turkey's economic crisis have been put on workers' shoulders, preventing unionisation, which gives workers a chance to turn one negotiation and inequality to their own side, at least a little bit. It is important that the problems of organizing workers left alone by employers are adopted by the government and quickly find solutions. Workers must be prevented from being threatened because they are union or because they will be. In this regard, the employer must be given the necessary deterrent sentences. In view of the fact that legal regulations are not sufficient, we propose that a parliamentary research commission be established in an effort to identify problems related to the organisation and unionisation of workers, employees, and remove obstacles to unionisation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Constitution is 98 and 104 and105 for the purposes of the study of "the difficulties of learning in the language of children who are not educated in their native language." I respectfully submit to the establishment of an Investigation Commission. [[Pain]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 13) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Lug]] [[Van]] Language is the most important tool of agreement and communication between people. The native language is the language the child receives without a conscious study process from its offspring, its environment, and its nation, especially his family. In this regard, it would be wrong to describe the mother tongue as "the mother of the child." The language written in terms of the survival and transfer of community culture to later generations is very important. It is expressed by experts that there is a strict parallel between language and mental development. The baby is constantly sensitive to sounds from the day it was born. In turn, the emotional relationship between a person and his native tongue is intertwined with a deep enough bond for a lifetime. The child earns basic language skills by the time he reaches school age. He thinks with words, connects with the outside world with words. So its development and communication, its agreement, its understanding, its mental process, and its intermediary. When he starts school, a different language - based education outside of his native language causes him to waver by overcoming his development, to be cross with the environment, to not care about himself, to run away from himself. So failure is inevitable. According to experts, when children from different cultures begin training in the dominant language, communication between the child and the parent is cut off and the principle of teaching through the experience of the child's basic rule of pedagogy is violated. The child feels rejected because he is told by direct or implied that he will leave his culture outside the school gate, and the child's active participation in the learning environment has been prevented. Because until the age of 7, the child is shaped spiritually and physically by its mother tongue. When he starts elementary school, his seven years go back to zero. It's being molded like a newborn. It's causing failures and traumas by subverting the child's mental shape. It is impossible to explain with the "economic lag" of the only region where Kurdish districts take turns as probes, according to Turkey. Local children who can't study in their native language fail in elementary school. Therefore, it is inevitable that children who are studying outside their native language will be investigated by a Parliamentary Research Commission for their problems in education. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Bursa is Turkey's fourth-largest province, the major industrial and agricultural city of our country. There has been a significant increase in population due to the recent migrations to Bursa. This led to an unplanned increase in construction on the Barra plain and the rapid urban and industrial construction of efficient agricultural areas. In addition, urbanization and industrialization have resulted in a large number of wastes. From these wastes, Lotus Tea and its surroundings are severely damaged. Lotus Tea is one of the major rivers in the Marmara region. The 203km-long Lotus Tea comes out of the two caves on the southern slopes of Uludağ at the height of 850m. In the beginning, it's called Aras Water. This water flows in the western direction, joined with various arms, calling it the Lotus. The average water volume is 168km in the province of Bursa, the average water volume is 458.848.800 m3/years, the water collection basin is 680 km2, and the annual average debit is 16.77m3/s. With a dam set up near the village of Doğancı (Naturist Dam) the city stores a significant portion of the drinking water. In addition, to meet the city's need for drinking water, the Lotus Dam continues to build at higher altitudes in the vicinity of the Black Sea. In ancient sources, Lotus, whose name is called "Odrys" tea, pours into the Lake of Uluabat after watering the Plain of Bursa. By taking the valleys of the Plain and its surrounding plains and the River of Çayırköy to Lake Ulubat, Nilüfer then merged with Susurlik Tea and poured into the Sea of Marmara from Karacabey. At the same time, some of the wetlands that extend the length of Lotus Tea are in plains, some of which are in the form of old sand furnace pits. In these areas, nature has partially restored itself. It's made most plants and animals special places. The wetlands along the lotus tea are located on the European-Africa stork migration routes. During the migration, thousands of storks fly through our villages, depending on the weather, from the end of February to the middle of May, and from the beginning of August until early October. During this natural wonder migration, they often pause and rest and feed on lotus tea. In addition, young storks who have not grown to maturity are not going to Europe, they stay here during the summer and feed around it. Also hundreds of white storks and dozens of black storks are protected from their enemies by perching on trees around Lotus Tea at night. A variety of studies show that Lotus Tea and its flanks are mainly contaminated by industrial and domestic pollutants. Other things include heavy metal pollution. This causes heavy metal pollution to appear in agricultural areas, which are mainly watered by heavy metals, which contain time and water. In particular, it has caused the water supply to be contaminated over time, as the liquid waste was first poured out uncontrollably into the Lotus Tea and its lateral arms. This water source is also important for agricultural production and is used to water it along its route across the plain. This also plays a key role in polluting the water, which contains various pollutants, the water that has been watered down over time. Alluvial and Vertisol, which are watered by Nilüfer Tea and Ayvalite Creek, are found in the territory of the Alluvial and Vertisol group, Mangan (Mn), Chimok (Mn), Çinko (Zn), Bakr (Cu), Kadmium (Cd), Kobalt (Co), Krom (Cr), Nikel (Ni) and Lead (Pb). These metals are stored in the top layer of the soil, depending on the watering. If watering continues for many years, it will lead to a place where agricultural areas can harm human health. In this context, the protection of the natural wealth of Lotus Tea, which was born within the borders of our province of Bursa, and the establishment of an emergency action plan to ensure that these resources can be transferred to future generations in a healthy manner, Taking preventive measures against serious construction and development threats, Taking inventory of all the buildings that caused the contamination of Lotus Tea, The detection of industrial-quality waste from individual industrial facilities and preventive measures, The detection of wastewater from hotel businesses operating in the Uludağ Hotel Area and public social facilities and taking necessary precautions To determine the rehabilitation of Lotus Tea and its flanks and to take the necessary measures, In order to prevent environmental pollution, protect plant and animal assets, healthy irrigation of farmland, and the future problems that may arise in order to protect our indispensable water sources, the Constitution is 98. TBM Interior Charter 104 and 105. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of a parliamentary investigation. With all due respect. [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Artvin]] 9) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Antalya]] [[Erzincan]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] 19) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Mughle]] [[Malatya]] [[Manisa]] 23) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Thursday 21,06.2012 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. The meeting of the Grand Assembly of Turkey's Assembly (about the reasons for the pollution of the Geediz River and those responsible for contamination) on the part of the General Assembly's Review and Parliament's Review (about the reasons for the contamination of the Geediz River); 10/219 Main Assembly Research Proclamation was proposed to be held during the General Assembly's 21s06.2012 Thursday (Today) merger. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Hasan Ören, Manisa MP.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0010par0252	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to a motion to investigate the pollution of the Gediz River and its basin. I salute you all. Before I proceed with my motion to investigate, I ask God's mercy to eight of our soldiers, who were killed in a treacherous attack on Hakkari (Hakkari) on Tuesday. I wish our 19 wounded soldiers a speedy recovery. My wish, and my wish, is that this great House, together with the terror that is one of Turkey's most important issues, will make important decisions, and let us not speak of such painful days from these platforms anymore. Before I proceed, I would like to point out to you a disaster in the village of Alkan, the town of Alekan, the Alaşehir district of Manisa. I'm asking my fellow lawmakers in parliament to do some research on the matter, and I'm asking the ruling lawmakers in Manisa, to go to the scene immediately to investigate the urgency and importance of the matter and to determine the commitment of the matter in its place. To compare, I think it's appropriate to say that, if you remember, in 2010 in the Gulf of Mexico, a great pollution began because of a fugitive in the well when BP was looking for oil. And because of the revelation, even President Obama of the United States was involved. If you want to make a comparison, all the experts and the bodies of the state who know there is a more dire situation in Mexico Bay, about the explosion of the geothermal well in the village of Alkan, the town of Alşehir County of Alkan, which cannot be covered or mentioned or found a place on the national channel today. What happened? An explosion occurred at 1,010 meters due to the company's failure to take precautions. Because of the geothermal explosion in the village of Alkan, none of the plans, which is now called the plan "A," which is called the plan "B," didn't work. Although the platform in the Gulf of Mexico was brought to the village of Alkan in the Gulf of Mexico, the government's insensitivity on this subject began to lead to fear that the platform would not work there and that another 5, 6, 7 explosion would occur there. The government has to get on it right away and deal with the problem here. It is no longer possible for the company there to do this job, it is not a plan A, it is a plan B, and Plan C is a very difficult plan; MTA, Ministry of Energy, Ministry of Internal Affairs, it is not possible to solve this problem simply by framing the governor in the province. The rising gas has begun to mix with the waters. Hundreds of acres of land are now barren. Because of the panic of the owners, we're going to pay them back, we're going to pay them back more than we can. It's just that the villagers who live there now keep their mouths shut, but even if they're paid, everyone should know and see that the land is a desert. I'm getting to the point now, I'm getting to my motion. Dear friends, in the government's vision, it's called a $500 billion export of 2023. Since we're exporting 12 billion dollars in agricultural land today, the export share in this $500 billion export is 38 billion. If we're really going to export $38 billion in agriculture, then we have to protect our fertile land, our fertile basins. One of the seven wetlands of the world, one of the seven counties, is the Gediz River and Gediz Basin, crossing four provinces and crossing the middle. It began in Gediz, and was poured out into the Gulf in Manisa, and in Menemen, Izmir. Before that, in this Parliament, in the 22nd term, in 2003, I made a motion to establish a research commission on this again. Three years later, the motion was reduced to Parliament. In the circumstances of that day, we had an argument here and I asked for it. There's nothing political about it. If we are to bring happiness to the people of this land, if this land will benefit the people of the country, if the fertile first-class land in Turkey is as low as 8 per cent, we have received it from our grandfathers, we will deliver it to our children. I said and asked the MPs of the Justice and Development Party: Please, vote for the research commission, and let us build it. Unfortunately, lawmakers refused to set up the research commission that day. It's been nine years. Six years ago, Mr. AKP MP Salih Kapusuz, who spoke against my speech, also appeared here. In my review that day, I told you that dozens of counties with 100,000 populations on this line had no treatment, that they carried all the dirt from industrial companies to the Gediz River. The AKP spokesman for that day also said that they were being started, such as Turgutlu, that large counties such as Salihli have projects -- I'm talking about in 2006 -- they'll be decontaminated as soon as possible. After six years, all of those things are in these reports, but there's no treatment facility in the counties they're talking about. He's not even planning on it, let alone not having it. I'll take it further, for ten years, not a single AKP-based mayor has built a treatment facility in this basin. In fact, this has been a subject of discussion. For example, even though there are 120,000 central populations, the mayor of Turkut, AKP, has never hesitated to mention, "Am I so stupid as to set up a cleanse?" There are 10,000 people at the bottom of it, Ahmetli, a Republican People's Party municipality; 120,000 people, 10,000 people. He said, "I'm smart enough to purify." He said, "I'm smart enough to purify." My dear friends, if we don't form a collaborative research commission on this matter and take precautions regarding the basin, we will lose these first-class lands. Now, from here, from 400 kilometers, from this land, there comes a heap of pollution that spills to Menemen in the Gulf of Izmir. Our mayor of Izmir spends millions of dollars, so he spends billions of dollars on new money to clear the bay. If we can plan it, if we can plan it and get the laws right, we'll be able to solve the problem once we've spent the Izmir City's money on clearing the bay, clearing the provinces on the Gediz River. I'm asking all of my deputies, AKP, MP, CHP, BDP lawmakers, to leave this issue out of politics, to set up a research commission that has not been dealt with, despite all the precautions, and to vote for the motion that I've brought in this supreme Assembly, if the law is necessary, to do whatever it takes, but not to forget our responsibility to our grandchildren. I believe we can solve this problem together. I give you all my regards, my love.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0011par0264	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Muzaffer Citizen, Manisa MP. Here you go, Mr. Muzaffer.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0012par0267	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the inquiry motion issued by the Republican People's Party MPs. First of all, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to say a few words about the geothermal explosions in the town of Manisa Alaşehir Infantry and the village of Alkan. I was in the area last weekend. We've detected damage from geothermal studies and explosions in some 80-100-yard area. We're over a geothermal-rich area. Our goal is to take our subterranean resources above ground, produce electricity from here, use them in greenhousery, use them in health tourism, and use them in home heating. We're a binding area. One of the best growing areas of the sultanial grape is the Alaşehir region. Work continues in this area. Our MTA Regional Directorate and the Department of Energy on this geothermal well continue their efforts to shut down the drilling well here. A new platform has been brought into this area and is intended to close this well as soon as possible. There is no desertification, no barrenness. There hasn't been any mix in the drinking waters. In the public health labs of our health department, there was no mix in the local water. Our farmers' losses will be taken care of. Our EC PARTY deputies in the region are also closely monitoring the issue in their territory. The Gediz River is one of the lifebloods of our Gediz Plain.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0013par0271	Careful, that's on the record. I brought back what happened in 2006, and so do yours!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0012par0272	Keeping this clean is very important to our territory.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0013par0273	You'll see if the water's dirty or not!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0012par0274	Newly established industrial areas, underground searches, geothermal studies will never change the idea that our region is an agricultural zone. We, the Gediz River, are in the work of making this Gediz Plain more efficient in the region of Manisa, where the Ministry of Forests and Waterworks will receive the most from the Thousand Pond Project in a thousand days, to make our land more watery. Under the Gediz Basin Protection Action Plan, our ministry implemented an action plan -- published in 2008. The work of implementing the completed action plan by the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs continues to consist of seven topics. These headlines include domestic waste water treatment facilities, individual industries and organised industrial areas, waste dehydration facilities, solid and dangerous waste processing, recovery and disposal facilities, cleaning and resolving the creek bed, combating erosion and treeing, control of agricultural pollution, river quality monitoring. Our ministry has been established in co-ordination to track the action plan. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, the Provinces Bank and municipalities work together to get wastewater treatment plants into operation at the dates set in the action plan. Establishing solid waste units aims to establish regular storage facilities. As part of the Gediz Basin Protection Action Plan, a total of 45 projects will be rehabilitated in 73 streams of about 253km of land, 6.751 hectares, 6 counties, 4 districts, 12 villages will be protected from floods and ravages, as well as the Russian movements that have arrived at the Gediz River main bed. In the basin by the end of 2010, there were 214,611 hectares of wooding, special wooding, 32,424 hectares of erosion in the area of 15,851 hectares. In order to control agricultural pollution, the control and control of the basin of resource pollutants, inventory education and awareness activities, control of fertilizer and pesticide sales, compostoising animal waste and injecting the soil and so on in the process of reproducing the liquid parts. In order to measure the parameters specified in the Water Framework Committee, to identify pollution in the basin, and to impose criminal sanctions on municipalities and companies if necessary, they continue to monitor the quality of water. Our gediz basin is one of the most important agricultural resources in our Manisa. Here, thanks to the work of our Ministry, our government, the most valuable agricultural products of our Manisa, one of our export products, the sultania grape, our farmer, who produces this product, is now satisfied with its production, its wages. At the time here, our farmer, who says, "When will the sultan's grape be worth a dollar?" is pleased with its produce and its life at the price of grapes near $2.50.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0014par0280	Snow, olives, peaches...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0012par0281	For this product to gain even more value, our cherry growing in our region, our strawberries, our olives in this region, our Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs and our Ministry of Agriculture are working intensively in the region to produce more of this. Meanwhile, a project has been launched in our region to promote the Manisa sultanial grape in Turkish Airlines with the cooperation of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and KOSGEB. As part of this project, it weighs 25 grams to a million passengers...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0014par0283	What does that have to do with the gediz basin? We're talking about the gediz basin.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0012par0284	A project was launched to promote the manisa sultanial grape, and our goal is to promote this consumption, both to increase domestic consumption and to better promote our product abroad. With these projects, we will continue our work in the coming period to prevent pollution in both the Gediz basin and the bin Pond Project in a thousand days. No water samples from different areas, soil samples, have been found to have increased pollution in this region. In our region, in order to make the Gediz basin and the Gediz River flow blue, we will see that the Gediz River, which will serve our municipality and ministry and will provide water for our Manisa, the Gediz River, hopefully, has been cleaned together.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0014par0286	Look, the other MPs are cunning, the Manisas came out, threw you in here.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0012par0287	On this occasion, I salute all our farmers. The town of Alaşehir Infantry and the village of Alkan send my regards to our farmers once again, and I greet you with respect, love, and conversation.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0015par0289	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal, İstiye Birtane, Kars MP.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0016par0292	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of a motion submitted by CHP regarding the Gediz River. I salute you all. We know that Turkey is rich in renewable resources, such as solar, wind, geothermal, biomass, but there are no official goals for renewable energy in Turkey. On the contrary, thermal plants are coming on the agenda, where fossil fuels are used to increase fossil fuel dependence as planned, cause 100 per cent pollution and cause global warming. What happened to Ergene River in Thrace is happening to the Gediz River today. Living life is being killed, nature is being slaughtered. Friends, it's not possible to use all the energy produced in thermal power plants. Only 30 to 40 per cent of the energy produced in thermal plants can be converted into electrical energy, and the rest is completely ejected as waste. These are serious risks not only to the environment but also to human health. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs violates its own organizational decree and the Environmental Law. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, whose primary mission was to protect our water resources and forests, has become the approval office by monitoring over 2,000 river-type HES projects, which are at least one river on every stream in our country. The majority of HES projects, designed as 10 megawatts and six, were exempted from making a CED report because the CED regulations dated 17/07/2008 were applied before the application. In addition, the detailed investigation of the matter will show that CED reports, which are mandatory according to the force of the board, are prepared by a number of CED companies that have not crossed their fingers, and that the look of the relevant ministries in the CED report is purely a formality. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism sees the CED process as just a procedure and completes almost every CED process by making the decision by considering the environmental protection duties imposed on him by law and by reviewing investment reports from a formality. Another freak in the CED process is the assessment of the environmental impacts by taking separate considerations of energy transmission lines that will transfer power from the plant to the national network. However, the transmission line, which connects energy produced by the power plant to the national network, is inextricably bilateral. We know that in almost every part of Turkey, our people are acting against the HeES, against the thermal power plants. We've been watching from the media and writing that locals are trying to draw attention to the problems of civil society and environmental organisations through various acts that have been turned into natural massacres. Local peoples and NGOs continue their search for rights on democratic and legal grounds and continue to halt the natural massacre, which the current administration has shared. For today, the number of decision-making and cancellations on HES projects has reached 60, but unfortunately, they are still working in this framework. Electricity with nuclear plants, accession of electricity, all other energy-accession technologies and the choice of locations, and the impacts of normal working conditions and environment in the event of the accident, the need for fully dependent fuel support, which provides continuity despite the expected price increases, the struggle to protect in the state of war, the destruction of radiation waste, the removal of an economic-life power plant, and the cost of all of that, are technical issues that concern all branches of science and society's groups of interest, but unfortunately, the government is making efforts to cover all of these problems. See, friends, while geothermal plants produce energy in Iceland, we are threatened with every aspect of our lives in case there is a bad smell in the environment. Again, the lake basin of Van and Lake Van themselves are contaminated with waste. The decontamination facilities that will be performed in this regard are dysfunctional. On this occasion, we say that we support the CHP's motion to question against any environmental massacre and vote yes. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0017par0303	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal in Tülay Kaynarca, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0018par0306	My dear President, our esteemed deputies have made a promise against the CHP group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. A motion on the reasons for the pollution of the Gediz River and a river of the second largest river in the Aegean Sea of the Gediz River. So ecological pollution is also very important, and you have to respect the sensitivity shown in this regard, and I stress the sensitivity, but I have just expressed our view of the group in almost every detail of our esteemed Manisa MP, Muzaffer Citizen Sir. On behalf of myself, I'd like to point out that we started negotiations with Bill of Human Rights of Turkey 279 rows yesterday, chapter one over, chapter two over, article 18, so in order to finish the work that we've programmed, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0019par0310	I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We move to the agenda's "Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın; Turkey's Grand National Assembly Institution Proposal for Change; Tunceli MP Kamer Gen's on the amendment of Articles of the Turkish Grand National Assembly; and the Constitutional Commission Report from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with Turkey's Human Rights Commission Report, which is ranked second. The commission and the government are in place. Yesterday's unification remained in the voting of two proposals for the same property on Article 18 (18) in the second part of the bill, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91. Now, to remind you, I'm going to have two motions reread and vote for you. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 18 (18) be removed from the bill of law 279 rows. Yours truly. Sebahat Tuncel Pervin Buldan Ertuğru Furçı Halil Aksoy Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan To the presidency of TBM, 18 of the 279 Numbered Bill. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali İlm Ali Öz Mehmet Erdoğan Does the Commission participate in the same motions? (x) 279 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 122nd Union Charter, dated 20/6/2012.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0020par0340	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0019par0341	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0021par0342	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0019par0343	I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 18th draft of the current bill, 279 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. At the end of his joke, 258 of the Turkish Penal Code is about those who act on this article. We provide and propose the addition of the clause. Intuitive God-like Malik Ecder Özdemir Levent Gök Mahmut Tanal Hussein Aygün Veli Ağbaba Melda Onur Free Orhan Decent Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0022par0356	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0019par0357	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0023par0358	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0019par0359	Sena Kaleli wants to speak on the motion, Mr. Bursa MP.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0024par0360	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we're negotiating an understanding that we're going to add wisdom to the Hakkk, which we can't ask for from his wisdom. I salute your high council. Dear MPs, Turkey is going through a period of ignorance. There's a sergeant's term in Turkey today. It's not mine. It's from a very valuable community scientist whose interview I recently read in a newspaper. Moreover, this scientist admits that he once supported the AKP, and says that he risked his life by saying these things, and that understanding has become a comedy. Congressman, isn't it bitter? A teacher expresss his thoughts and feels threatened by sharing them. Why? Because there is no justice left in Turkey. Why? Turkey has no more rights and freedoms. The absolute sovereignty of the majority is not democracy. The power that takes refuge in the majority by seeing people vote for themselves is turning it into fascism that makes reality invisible. He wants no criticism of himself. He suspects everyone. He's listening on the phone, questioning everyone, making enemies. People only know themselves in human beings. Says Goethe. And I say, "Man sees man in himself." The government is on a mission to intimidate people, to convey, to question, to think, to criticize, to know and demand their rights and freedoms. The only way to preserve our existence is to deliver rights and freedoms with respect to all kinds of differences -- forbidden, unblocked and double standardized. Your stomach has stomach pills, but your head doesn't have stomach pills. My late mother was worried. Verily the sight of the Hour is one, and he is on the hill, leaving it for a day. Dear lawmakers, when I followed the cases of those tried in Hopa and HES, I fully understood that we were unable to internalize the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which we accepted and signed sixty-three years ago. I've heard nothing of disabled democracy or injustice as a human being. If we do not stand by those who are judged for their thoughts, their speech, their actions, their demonstrations, and their most basic human rights demands, if we do not speak to unjust and unlawful accusations and arrests, if we do not feel the pain of the people who died in prisons without understanding what they were accused of, we must first doubt our own humanity. Would it be fair to arrest and accuse and take over municipalities and institutions through political fraud? When the main line is human and science, when neutral, fair and consistent policies are followed, when empathy can be established, trust can be established, and then there's no problem that can't be solved, and there's no right violation. If we make our union a religion, we replace people from different religions and sects who want to live differently, who are faithless, who want to live differently. Our differences should be private. For the neutrality and assurance of those who give rights, the cornerstone must be a variable and subjective subject. The only source we trust should be us, human beings. The violation of rights violations must also be sanctioned. Man can exist not by peace, brotherhood, democracy, freedom, independence, forgetting rights, but by seeking rights. Remember, we're equal, but we're not the same, we're different, but we're not apart. With these thoughts, I salute the High Council. And I wish our friends who work with us, they're not destroyed, they're standing. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0025par0372	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on Article 19 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 19th draft of the current 279 rows. We offer and propose that the first joke of the article be changed as follows. The institution's executives at all levels are responsible to the Council for carrying out their duties in accordance with legislation, strategic plan, programmes, and quality standards. Intuitive God-like Malik Ecder Özdemir Levent Gök Mahmut Tanal Hussein Aygün Musa Pine Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to propose and propose that the draft of the 279 rows of legislation, which is currently in session, be removed from the bill of Article (19). Yours truly. Sebahat Tuncel Pervin Buldan Ertuğru Furçı Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Halil Aksoy Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0026par0393	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0025par0394	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0027par0395	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0025par0396	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0028par0397	Mr. President, are the esteemed lawmakers bound by the Human Rights Agency? Courageous human rights advocates take risks, defend human rights, file reports, do time, pay the price, die, fight human rights. Sitting in the office, taking a car of office, taking a high salary, being granted immunity, it is not possible for the government to protect the individual against the government, against the government, for once, we make it very clear. That's why we gave these motions. However, when I say human rights, I would like to say a few words about the real agenda of our country. Now, there are 5,000 casts in the Diyanette -- the bell cast -- to be appointed -- the clergy, the scholar, they've had a certain education, and they've been doing it for years. However, in the east, southeast, the religion is consciously discriminated against. I got 20 calls today. That's human rights... if it's being done in the field of religion, that's a whole other thing, let me put it this way. Mr. Secretary of State is coming out to television -- the ministers are doing a single show right now -- talking to the Party of Peace and Democracy -- and not really knowingly -- says: "There are two sides to what happened, whether you are in favor of peace or you are in favour of war." From the beginning of 2007, we have insisted that we investigate this, that we discuss this, that we discuss this, that parties may discuss this. For thirty years, violence was not the solution, the weapon was not the solution, the mountain was not the solution, military operations were not the solution, and these were nothing but deaths and funerals. For five years we have been saying that. Since Mr. Davutoglu didn't stay in Ankara, he probably didn't know any of this because he came to the Parliament. Mr. Zana, our brother is truly sincere in peace. He also had serious criticism of the EC PARTY. I have to underline those reviews, part of that interview has been published, so I'd like to express it once. A second issue: Here is our bilateral choice, his chest, democratic politics, and... even our presence in this Parliament is a guarantee of peace, a guarantee of resolution, a guarantee of solving problems under this roof, together with Turkey. The fact that we're here is the address of hope for solutions for our young people in Congress, the location of hope of solutions. As long as we were here, young people were watching all the talks in the House live, from Parliament TV, but unfortunately, you shut down live broadcasts. After Roj TV, you have closed to the public the most popular broadcasts of Parliament TV. You've arrested eight of the elected deputies, you've arrested 37 mayors. Van, the one you didn't win, you had Edremit's mayor arrested by a special authority court, brought in your own allies, your party members, and elected them. You know, the morality of that, the politics of that, the choice of that? Now, in Congress, we are here to defend, insist on the solution to democratic, peaceful politics, we will defend, we will defend. But I want to make it very clear to Mr. Davutoglu here: Well, when you're locking up 8,000 of our parties as terrorists, you're locking people up for the slightest bit of thought, while our citizens are being beaten on the streets every day by state terror, aren't you going to say that the extent of this violence is state-sized? Violence isn't one-sided. Come on, we're sincere about this, don't waste time. It's a matter of conscience to put the House on vacation. There is an interview with CHP for the solution to this problem. Come, let's continue these negotiations together. When it comes to peace, political solutions, we put our open position on Parliament at work, and why are you running away, why don't you have a project? We find it our right to ask ourselves. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0029par0407	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 19th draft of the current 279 rows. We offer and propose that the first joke of the article be changed as follows. The institution's executives at all levels are responsible to the Council for carrying out their duties in accordance with legislation, strategic plan, programmes, and quality standards. Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0030par0414	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0029par0415	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0031par0416	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0029par0417	It's the Alliance MP Attila Kart who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0032par0419	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 19th Amendment. I salute the General Assembly. My dear friends, we are discussing a bill of democracy and human rights. During the talks on this bill, I would like to share a picture of Turkey with you, very briefly, with its headlines, and I would like to pass on my evaluations to you. Look, this is a painting that we've been living with for seven or eight years. I'd like to share with you the results of our closer observation across Turkey due to the recent work of the Constitutional Compromise Commission. Dear lawmakers, we see that a hate speech in Turkey dominates a social tension environment. In Turkey, we see a structure dominated by violence, domestic violence, fear. We're going through a period when freedom of the press, freedom of communication, the safety of private life is at stake. We're going through a period where illegal surveillance, listening, and imaging are now becoming normal, and it's becoming normal. There's crime, there's criminals, but somehow the perpetrators, the responsible ones can't be identified. That's the kind of time we're going through. Look, dear lawmakers, I want to tell you two concrete events. I'd like to address your consciences in the context of these two concrete events. How realistic are we when we're discussing human rights, how far are we on the ground? Is there really a purpose to protect human rights here, or are we just doing a show-and-tell arrangement, like public supervision? Or here, sir, with a figure and a form of arrangement, here we are, sir, a 246-man staff in public supervision, and here I think about 70-ish staff; here, we aim to employ a staff of about 300, right now with partisan understanding? The Constitutional Compromise Commission is under way, and we're interviewing public supervision over basic rights and freedoms, and we're discussing human rights. So, why do we have to deal with these things when we don't have the laws of the revolution? Is there a reason for that? Is there an explanation for this? The explanation for this lies in the job I just told you about, for the purpose of the staffing. Look, my dear friends, I told you the other day, but there was no word from the Attorney General, the government. A month ago, there was a pass from lawyer to judge, valued lawmakers. Those test results were announced on May 30th, but before he announced on May 30th, 15 days ago, it was announced on the websites who would be the first, who would be the second, and who would be the winner. 1st A. K. It will be. It has been said, A. K. He was the first, not enough, and his wife was the second. That's how we've expressed the names of dozens of people, the names, the addresses of their offices, but the government is silent, not saying a word. Shouldn't an honest, political-respected, politically honorable government, a minister come out and answer that? Questions were given. Is there any other explanation? I'm talking about a judge's exam. We're not answering that, we're talking about human rights.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0033par0425	Tomorrow, we'll put him in the state secret.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0032par0426	Look, a journalist's request to evacuate...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0034par0427	Are they going to judge us, or are those men going to judge us?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0032par0428	It's from the judge, the prosecutor's giving me a parole hearing. Do you know who's writing in between? There's a third person's writing, saying: "Don't let him be convicted. " The statement of that person goes above the judge and the prosecutor's statement and his contract. Aren't you going to answer that? Is there an illegal headquarters in Turkey that is effective in judicial mechanisms, evacuation mechanisms? What are you going to discuss about human rights in an illegal headquarters? Is there a dimension left to talk about human rights?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0034par0429	He's deaf, I don't think they can hear him.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0032par0430	The way we're meeting, could it mean something else? Could it mean anything beyond form? For him, Human Rights... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...I respectfully salute the General Assembly, stating that there will be no human consequences in this bill during the discussion of its creation.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0035par0434	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Commission has a request to make amends.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0036par0437	Mr. President, we would like to ask that the article 19 be removed from the title of the period of authority, which is based on the title of the 19th article.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0035par0438	Noted. I submit the 19th article to your votes with the request for correction: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 20: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 20th draft of the current bill 279 rows. Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be changed as follows. The institution can buy services for jobs that require temporary or expertise in its work. Intuitive God-like Malik Ecder Özdemir Levent Gök Mahmut Tanal Hussein Aygün Ali Serindağ Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that Article 279, which is currently in session, be removed from the draft law of Article (20). Yours truly. Sebahat Tuncel Pervin Buldan Ertuğru Furçı Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Halil Aksoy Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0037par0456	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0035par0457	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0038par0458	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0035par0459	Halil Aksoy, Ağrı MP.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0039par0460	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, human rights violations are committed in every area. In fact, it's based on local origins, based on birthplaces, where people get different treatments when they're doing ID checks here or there. They are usually civil servants, and direct violations of human rights are often done by the government. In that sense, the government's report card or the government's report card is quite corrupted. As a matter of fact, according to the decisions made by the ECHR, the number of decisions against Turkey is in the first place in the world. Given the compensations paid, it is clear how severe human rights violations are. There's no doubt that the worst violations are the prisons. I don't have to tell you over and over again, almost all the preachers said something about it. But the point is, 95 prisoners are facing death and waiting for an evacuation. If we have any respect for human rights, there must be measures. However, it is also a fact that torturers are protected, that they must be allowed to prosecute those who are being tortured, and that in the law, that's a pretty bad score for human rights. It's also useful to draw some attention to the state of the judge and prosecutors. I'd say the judge and the prosecutors have been very protective of that, too. I've seen a very clear example of this in a court where I've been involved, but in any case, it's possible to say that those who committed these violations were protected by judges and prosecutors. For example, there are now 77 lawsuits against a torture trial against the police. That figure alone shows where human rights are in Turkey. Now, it is also useful to briefly state what needs to be done: this institution must be granted a constitutional guarantee above all else. The chairman of the board should be elected by Parliament, not by the government, and Turkey should be elected by the Grand National Assembly. The powers vested in the president are quite large, it must be restricted. The institution's budget must be discussed within the general budget. He must be independent of finance and personnel. Your members need to be secured for duty. Admission procedures, membership criteria, membership compositions must be made clear. They need to have an unannounced and unlimited visitation authority, and they need to be able to account to the public by filing reports. It must be equipped with the authority to do liquidation. He must be in a position to receive the broadest support of NGOs who are active in human rights. If the board is to represent the administration, it shouldn't be allowed to vote. The institution must have the authority to open a branch at home and abroad without a number limit. The commission's duties include pressing charges concerning the crimes identified, following the process until the verdict is final. In addition, gender balance must be observed in the Council's membership. It must not be forgotten, people are human by their rights. I salute you all with these thoughts and feelings. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0040par0466	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion denied. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 20th draft of the current bill 279 rows. Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be changed as follows. The institution can buy services for jobs that require temporary or expertise in its work. Sezgin Godkulu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0041par0474	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0040par0475	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0042par0476	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0043par0477	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0040par0478	Ali Serindağ, Gaziantep MP...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0043par0480	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressmans, I have made a promise regarding the Bill of the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey. I salute you all. Mr. President -- if only he were here -- in yesterday's speech, Mr. Bashir Atalay says: "Dear friends, Congress is important to us. Congress, everyone. People are represented here. They say it's important to us. Now, if Parliament is important to the AKP as Mr. Bashir Atalay put it, why doesn't the legislature come to the agenda of Parliament? There are decrees under the law that haven't been on the agenda for years. Last year, in the event of rain, a decree was issued in accordance with the law. The same day it is published in the Official Gazette, the same day it is presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but Turkey is on the shelves of the Grand National Assembly commissions, not discussed, not brought, not treated against the Constitution. Second: If parliament is important to you, why does the basic law that should be an exception become the general rule? Why are all the laws, even the bag offers, even the bag bill being brought to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as a fundamental law? This is a clear statement that the AKP did not value Parliament, that the AKP's Assembly viewed it as a institution that carried out a formality. So I wish it were so that everything would come to the House. Now, you're going to say, Gene, in the same way Mr. Bashir Atalay says, "Look, how great is it that Parliament will choose the ombudsman?" So the Parliament will choose the ombudsman? The AKP will choose the ombudsman. If you had already allowed the House to choose, then you would have allowed the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to choose the ombudsman for two-thirds of the time. So this is one of the clearest statements, the ones that you don't value the House. Now, who chooses to be a member of the Human Rights Council? Mr. President chooses two members, sir, the Council of Ministers elects seven members, one member is elected by the Turkish Bar Association or by the Bar Association, and one member by the SEC. Now, we'd like to rely on the candidates that Mr. President will choose, but I'm afraid Mr. President's actions so far do not give us that confidence. Why won't he give it to me? Let me give you an example or two. A man called Ataturk had chosen a person to be a member of the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute, elected the President, and he could not stand the criticism, had to resign. The president should've thought of that choice when he made it. What else did he do? He elected a 29-day deputy undersecretary to be a member of the Constitutional Court. Now, why did the constitutionalist place this decree on the Constitution? I mean, why did the constitution make the decision that allowed certain people to be elected to the Constitutional Court? He'll get experience there, he'll get savings, and he'll use that savings there after he's been elected to be a member of the Constitutional Court. Do you, my dear friends, think that in twenty-nine days, this savings can be made? What else has he done, Mr. President? Within ten months, he appointed a member of the district administrative court to be a member of the Constitutional Court. How did this happen? First, he was appointed to the Court of State, then appointed to be a member of the Constitutional Court, and all within ten months, my friends. This is a clear indication of Mr. President's attitude when he made the appointment. That's why I'm making it clear that we don't trust Mr. President's appointments. If only we could have been trusted, if only he had given us that trust, if the President had used his powers in the Constitution as his statement. Because what does the Constitution say? The president represents the unity of the nation, he says. He should've evaluated it when he was making the appointments. Now, my dear friends, we look at the government and the government's appointments with suspicion. What did you do? You've made the Turkish Academy of Sciences a government institution. You destroyed the reputation of the Turkish Academy of Sciences. What have you done yet? You have made TÜBITAK a government institution again. It's all wrong. These are all things that lead Turkey astray. Therefore, we say that the Human Rights Council cannot enter into an attitude, within an attitude, within an application; it will not enter into it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, this committee would have to be made up of fully independent individuals. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0044par0493	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 21: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 21st draft of the current 279 rows. We propose and propose that the clause (a) be changed as follows. ίa) Predestined grants for a certain proportion of allocations from the general budget. Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu Malik Ecder Özdemir Levent Gök Mahmut Tanal Hussein Aygün Veli Ağbaba Melda Onur Free Orhan Decent To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey I would like to propose and propose that Article 21 (21) be removed from the bill of law 279 rows. Yours truly. Sebahat Tuncel Pervin Buldan Ertuğru Furçı Erol Dora Halil Aksoy Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0045par0514	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0044par0515	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0046par0516	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0044par0517	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0047par0519	They're here on a perfect day, Minister of the European Union, because on May 17th, they held the 26th meeting with this Reform Watch group, and their commitments to this meeting include the establishment of the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey. Yes, this is the 23rd Fasil of Turkey's Human Rights Foundation. So how do you explain this thing -- the 23rd Fasil -- the journalists who were in prison for freedom of thought, the lawyers who were arrested, the independent judiciary, the special authorities? And they're gonna ask about us. At your meeting, they came up to the heat, and they said, "Ya, what is this Bill of Human Rights Act coming to Parliament?" We said, "We swear, the government is building an institution, and you can call it a government protection agency, not human rights, and so is the government. Now, don't let anyone think that you can fool the European Union with this, you know, the terms of the negotiations, the chapters. Now, of course, there's a more dire situation. Today we pay attention, in the press, Chief of Staff Necdet makes a special statement about Uludere. The Prime Minister says they were smugglers, they knew their mines. He says, "No, they were terrorists, even their weapons were taken." 34 people were slaughtered, the Parliamentary Human Rights Commission went there. The state didn't show up that day, the soldiers didn't go for two days, the police didn't go for two days, the D.A. handled it from a helicopter, and you know who got there first? It's not an institution like this. And then the Parliament's Human Rights Commission left, days later. The Human Rights Association went there, MAZLUMDER went there, Turkish Medical Association went there, KESK went there, women's organizations went there, and dozens of NGOs were there instantly on the day of the incident. Now, he makes such a statement, says the Prime Minister, the Chief of Staff says he had terrorists, even weapons. Now, what is it, not to influence this judgment? Which one of these is true? Is it what the Prime Minister said, or is it true what the President's officer said, my friends? Now, that's not enough, he's interviewing a party president, and the Chief of Staff says: "We enter the Kandil (Kandil) on three conditions. It's been in all the press, he says: 1) It will be a state decision. Are friends above the State Council? What government is that? Ask him. Three parties have already made the decision, and the government has delivered it to the government, and the government has given them authority. What government decision do they want? Do you need a deep government decision? 2) if the United States (America) allows it. What do you call this? 3) There will be casualties, but if we prepare the people... Scandal after scandal. Not every statement from the General Staff, the TSK, will save it, nor will it save it. No president of the political party would explain these things out of the blue, unless they were said. Now, with a Joint Chief of Staff in this country on a mission like this, that problem is unresolved, and he needs to resign immediately. At the end of this statement, despite the government's policy, the Chief of Staff must resign immediately. If he's not resigning, he's not an officer of the government, he's not at his command, the government is not at his command, he's above the government. That means there's no other explanation. Another issue: The Council member of Uludere, Cabbar Yilmaz, still in prison, they haven't filed charges in five months, he's the only one who hasn't been summoned from the other side for the massacre, but four prisoners, they don't open their cases, 12 fugitives, and we won't prosecute if he doesn't show up. Such a threat is also in the process of trial with blackmail and facing death for these psychological reasons, see, quite frankly, that's what I'm talking about in Congress. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0048par0532	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 21st draft of the current 279 rows. We propose and propose that the clause (a) be changed as follows. ίa) Predestined grants for a certain proportion of allocations from the general budget. Sezgin Godkulu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0049par0539	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0048par0540	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0050par0541	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0048par0542	Levent Gök, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0051par0544	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, one of the most important clauses in the human rights bill, the 21st article, determines the institution's budget. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have reiterated in the talks we've had on this matter before, but in order for the record, I would like to share with you the views of some of the representatives of the organization and the NGO. Once the Human Rights Association visited our Commission, the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey visited, and the two of them shared their views, the current bill is unacceptable, there is no owner, the bill must be withdrawn immediately. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I read to you exactly what MaZLUMDER had to do with the idea that the school does not have autonomy. He should have a separate budget, and he should have a budget with a very specific ratio. • Who says so? It's the MIDDLE. The Human Rights Association is singing and singing. The representatives of Amnesty International have arrived. It needs to be a regular source of income. They made us note that a certain percentage of his share of the general budget should be predetermined. Ioanna Kuçuradi, the polar star in Turkey's philosophy. He's at a very different point in rights and salaries. It's not for employees, experts, presidents, members of the human rights institution to get paid at all. He suggested to us that it be done entirely on the basis of volunteering and that the money should not be attractive. He's got a point. Shanar Yurdatapan is one of the most distinguished intellectuals in our country. ▪ As a result of the meetings, we were disappointed to see the commission report. Our views are being taken, and if they are not being practiced, that is a very disappointing attitude. That's what he said. Kerem Sixfingermak is one of the most famous figures in the area of human rights boards in Turkey. Yilmaz Ensaroglu, representatives from SETA again... their common opinion: Our opinion is not taken into account in the preparation of the bill. The bill must be withdrawn immediately. They said, "You can't make an international standard by doing a patch." The dominant Oran has made one of the most striking findings: ▪ With this bill, the lamb is delivered to the wolf. All members are considered officers. This is the law of Nevzat Tandoğan. He said, my dear friends. It's possible to replicate the samples. Turkey's Association of Law Research Foundation, İzmir Bar Association, Ankara Bar Association, İstanbul Bar Association, Hacettepe University and all of them, the Association of Bar Association of Turkey: This bill must be withdrawn immediately. I would like to make a specific record of what the president of Diyarbakır Bar has said: "If this bill is not withdrawn, I will not allow my labor." My dear friends, you see, all the opinions of our civil society and intellectuals have been put aside and the institution's budget has been set up in a different way. Our proposal: we have put together a very valid motion, considering the opinion of all NGOs and respected thinkers, and it remains that Mr. Minister -- Mr. Bashir -- he was also involved in our opinion, and when it was discussed in the Assembly General Assembly, perhaps he told us that it could be corrected. We suggested, my dear friends, that the issue of financial autonomy is very important here. People who work for the Human Rights Institution must know their budgets in advance. So in our motion, a certain share of the budget... it could be 1%, it could be 2%. The board will know. No matter which party is in power, the Council needs to know how much of the budget will come to him. Why is this important? When the board continues its work, if it criticizes the government, if it criticizes the government, we have made a very justified motion that my own budget should not be cut down in any way. This issue of fiscal autonomy is indeed a matter that the European Union has been very careful about. Again, in the European Union's 2011 Progress Report, the Minister is also here -- the provisions concerning financing in the draft law do not allow budget revenues to come from an independent source. And yet, with all of this in the open, we have to repeat to you that an institution without the institution's fiscal autonomy, where there is already no administrative autonomy, where the Council of Ministers and the president's appointees have no fiscal autonomy, has absolutely contradicted the principles of Paris. It's a fair suggestion, and the President of the Commission is a witness to what the Minister has told us. When this issue comes up in the House, we have a chance to do it, the minister said. But he's not here. I'm going to have to ask our commissioner for his opinion on this matter. We call it a very justified motion. We call it a certain share of the budget. I say, I salute all of you with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0052par0562	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit01spe0053par0563	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request, and I'll grant it. Mr. Gök, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Akinci, Mr. Gündüz, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Bay Bayututan, Mr. Kart, Mr. Öz, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Topal, Mr. Aygun, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Turk. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0053par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 123th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough attendance in the roll call before the vote of Ankara MP Levent Gök and his friends on the 21st article of the Law Bill 279 rows. Now, we're going to recheck with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. [[Continue]] The commission and the government are in place. Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Members of parliament, the jokes of Article 22 will be discussed separately. There are two motions in article 22 of the first joke, which I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The amendment and disinherited legislation of the underlying 279 rows (22-1) of the Law of State Officers No. 657: A) 36. To be replaced by the article, to be changed in the form to follow its description. b) 152. Instead of coming after the article in the article, it should be replaced in the form of a change in order to follow its description. C) We propose and provide a change in the form of the letter to follow after its description. Levent Gök Haydar Akar Haluk Eyidoğan Bornt Tezcan Ali Haydar Öner Kemal Ekinci Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1st Article (22) of the current law bill 279 rows (22). I propose that his joke be removed from the bill. Yours truly. Sebahat Tuncel Pervin Buldan Ertuğru Furçı Erol Dora Halil Aksoy Hasip Kaplan Does Mr. Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0054par0038	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0053par0039	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0055par0040	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0053par0041	Ertugrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0056par0043	Mr. President, my dear friends, our proposal to remove the first joke of this clause from the bill is consistent with the fact that we oppose the entire law. It is the continuation of proposals from the previous draft law. We've explained over and over again why we're against this bill. However, government and commissioners have worked hard to explain how the bill is in line with international standards. I'd like to convey to you two international human rights advocates' stances on the law. One of them, Emma Sinclair-Webb, representative of the Human Rights Watch, which is the headquarters of the Human Rights Watch, Washington, the capital of the United States, has noted that Turkey also needs an effective and independent human rights institution, and "The Turkish government should withdraw the bill prepared for the establishment of a national human rights institution because the proposed institution will lack neutrality and will not be independent of government." he continued. He also said that the government's stable insistence on not responding to the concerns of human rights organisations in Turkey regarding this bill signalled that protecting and supporting human rights is not the government's priority. Dear friends, the second explanation came from the Asian representative of this torture-fighting organization. Likewise, he said, the independence of this institution is not in any way guaranteed. Now, it means that we're not the only ones in the world who are fighting for human rights, because they're all looking at the same point, against the state, they're saying that protecting and defending society's rights in front of the state can only be maintained by a state-free, autonomous institution, that the struggle for protection will be carried out by an institution that balances the power of the government. Look, if this is not autonomy and independence, what can it be? The best example is the Chief of Staff's statement in the newspapers today. Following six months of the Uludere massacre, the Chief of General Staff says today that six PKK members were actually in the group that had been attacked and fled after the incident, after not delivering any information to the Parliament Human Rights Commission and the Diyarbakır Special Prosecutor's Office. It's just that he can tell a big lie, and it's just that there's no effective human rights control. If the Chief of Staff were telling the truth, the day after the incident, two days later, he wouldn't have gone to the scene. For 24 hours, the military troops in the region would not be buried in their barracks, and when our Commission asked them, "What happened there?," they would not send us blank papers with nothing in them, nothing in them, information in the past. Therefore, in Turkey, in a country with such an effective human rights violation history, it would not be possible for the Chief of Staff to systematically lie over the incident, after six months of the massacre, to lie to the community, to the people, to the people in this country, to the people who have been massacred and to the advocates of their rights. Only an effective mechanism can prevent these lies. Therefore, just as all of the provisions of this bill exist, this clause is now meaningless and worthless.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0057par0050	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The amendment and disinherited legislation of the underlying 279 rows (22-1) of the Law of State Officers No. 657: A) 36. To be replaced by the article, to be changed in the form to follow its description. b) 152. Instead of coming after the article in the article, it should be replaced in the form of a change in order to follow its description. C) We propose and provide a change in the form of the letter to follow after its description. Levent Gök (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0058par0059	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0057par0060	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0059par0061	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0057par0062	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0060par0063	Engin Ozkoch will speak, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0057par0064	Engin Özkoç, MP of Adapazarı. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0061par0067	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, Mr. Ayhan Sefer Ün, Congresswoman of Sakarya, Chairman of the Human Rights Review Commission, we live together in the same city, we share the same fate. One night, at three o'clock, the city where we lived suddenly became the earthquake of the century. We left the house, and when we got out, thousands of houses were destroyed, and people were in ruins. Now, he understands what I'm about to say, and you too -- I hope -- look at it this way: I'm not going to be critical of human rights. Today, I'd like to speak with my friend, who can understand a cry that only began yesterday, a cry that began. You might say, "No, not me, but my neighbor." Or you could say, "This is a human mission, yes, we should act like this. Hundreds of people have died, hundreds of people have been killed, hundreds of people have been killed, and when they have been brought a loaf of bread, give it to me, give it to my neighbor." We weren't AKP people, we weren't CHP people, we weren't MHP people, we weren't BDP people, we weren't members of any party, we were people, we all wanted to live, but the human mind was amazing, it suddenly forgets its greatest pain. It's been a while, there's been a flat earthquake. It was a greater disaster, day after day, winter, coal burning, people burning, children burning, women burning. The government tried to heal the wounds, and stretched out their hands; and they were given their houses, and their houses, and their houses, and their houses. Is there anything to say? Yeah, but I'll leave that side to it. It's taken care of what's in the house. There were also those on the rent who were too poor to have a home, too desperate to have a home, like those who had a home, who lost their children, lost their children, lost their lives. These people were first placed in tents, then prefabricated. How many square feet? 25 square meters. My dear friends, look, we're sitting on gazelle seats, look, we're in a big room, but believe me, we can't sit here for ten hours, we're going backstage. They've been living with their families in prefabs for 13 years; they have patients, they have children, they have students; they want one thing, they want housing, but the human right says... What can we do now? If you could find a cure. There's so many poor, so many poor, we'll take care of you. They say. Let's not say that. My dear President, yesterday in Düzce, fifty-four families were removed from their prefabs, men were arrested, women were thrown into the street. There was a patient, the patient's machine was ripped out, thrown out. The kids are in shock. Let's look at this as human rights, let's not look at it from a party angle. If you ask them, Mr. President, tomorrow, they might tell you that they can find 50 excuses, but there is no excuse for poverty. I'm asking you to extend your hand to these people, regardless of the human rights philosophy we're talking to today, just by looking at the compassion of the state, remove the trauma of the children, reconnect the patient to the machine, and tell them: "There is still the state; the state will be with the poor and the poor and the poor, and you will have the right to live as long as they have the least home. I salute you all again, with all due respect.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0062par0072	I will submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0063par0075	I want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0062par0076	We see, Mr. Slim, don't get excited.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0063par0077	You see, you may not be able to hear it, so I thought I'd call out for both organs.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0062par0078	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Gök, Mr. Akar, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Öner, Mr. Ekinci, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Altay, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Bayaktutan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Külturk, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Değirindereli, Mr. Keskin, Mr. Tunay. I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0064par0081	Five minutes, five minutes...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0062par0082	They're working on the commission, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0064par0083	Five minutes, they can't make it, there's old people.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0062par0084	Maybe, I can give you five minutes, but I'll give you three.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0065par0085	Give me ten minutes, and there are others in Rediay.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0062par0086	You have the right to object, sir. Plan and Budget Commission are working.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0065par0087	All right, Mr. President, there are some things going on in Rediay.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit02spe0062par0088	I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0062par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 123th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The meeting was not enough before the vote of Sakarya MP Engin Özkoç and his friends on Article 22 of the Law Bill 279. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on the 2nd joke, which is based on Article 22. I'm going to read it and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed bill of 279 rows be changed into the form "to follow the notice" in place of the amendment and lifted legislation, abortion of the staff and notice. Levent Gök Haydar Akar Bulent Tezcan Kemal Ekinci Ali Haydar Öker Haluk Eyidoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0066par0025	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0062par0026	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0067par0027	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0062par0028	Kemal Ekinci has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0068par0031	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have been promised the 2nd amendment to the 22nd article of the law. I salute you all. I know how hard it is to talk about the law on human rights in a country where human rights is most violated. Yesterday, when we were discussing this bill, it was enough in the press today that a citizen in Fatih was beaten by seven high-profile security guards as if he were being spiteful. Today and in the past, Turkey has always been brought up about human rights violations. If the European Commission for Human Rights Watch hadn't made a statement on Turkey, maybe we wouldn't have seen each other today, or this law wouldn't have come up. If only the new law in this country and especially the law on human rights had been addressed by our will, by our will, by our will. I've been going over the past, and things have been so strange in this country. I'm saying what I heard first-hand from a close friend in a prison. A month, every morning, she was dragged into her septic pit, under her lip, and tortured for a month. Again, speaking Kurdish with extraordinary laws was banned at some point. I've watched a mother and her son meet dramatically. A soldier at his son's head, a soldier at his mother's head, and the boy speaks Turkish, and the mother doesn't speak a word of Turkish. They say to each other for an hour and a half, how are you? We've seen this all the time. In the question, he threw himself out the window. We saw some friends of ours, called. We saw people get overwhelmed by torture, throw themselves out the window, and we saw people get thrown out. There is an incident with my own brother: Because of the conflict with a friend's wife, who are your friends at school? They give my brother's name. I heard screaming from the torture chamber for a month. Now, in a country like this, we've come to this day from such practices. We're gonna be able to get ahead of these things in the future, and I really want it so we can get ahead of them. But let me tell you about the joke of the substance we discussed: staff employment, staff's salary, resources; rather than that, the authority, the effective person to enforce this law, must first free that person's brain and conscience. If his mind and conscience are not free, no matter what the law, he does not respect human rights or law. Every person in search of rights should have that door open. The law responds to that, but the practice doesn't. Again, you know what happened to the monopoly workers last year, you know what happened to teachers, unionists, workers who went out looking for rights, and it's interesting to know that today's arrest, whether you call it the Ergenekon case or call it the "Balioz" case, there are a lot of wrongful people being held in prison. Just recently, police have been pressing against him to insult him while arresting a criminal or possibly a criminal. Now, first, after the law has been passed, those who practice it have to go through serious training. They're appliances before they're trained... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0069par0041	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There is a motion in the third joke, which is based on Article 22. I make it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The amendment of the proposed 279 rows has been added to me by the provision of the amendment, which has been revoked and lifted from the scope of the amendments, which is called the cancellation of the staff and the notice. Levent Gök Haydar Akar Haluk Eyidoğan Bornt Tezcan Ali Haydar Öner Kemal Ekinci Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0070par0051	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0069par0052	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0071par0053	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0069par0054	Ali Haydar Öker, MP of Isparta who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0072par0056	Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, we are conducting talks about the Bill of Human Rights Law in a country that has the highest right to speak for five minutes on the parliamentary stand; we are very happy, very excited! We believe that there will be no more violations of human rights in Turkey, not because of this institution; neither women's rights nor men's rights, nor the right to live honorably, nor the right to live free life, nor the right to privacy, and especially the end of telephones! Good for you, good for all of us. From now on, I hope there will be no violation of the right to speak at TBM. [[!]] Before this law came to the agenda, Mr. Prime Minister, every abortion was a Uludere. A group of authors who are educated, and the band of writers who are educated, are right. Yes, the Prime Minister is right. The fancy writers, the well-bred men, the TV, the canal, the canals, and the Prime Minister, were telling the truth. After that, the women came out and surprised you. What happened? Did the ladies' gentleman defeat the Prime Minister? The Prime Minister's Press Office didn't mean it, he meant it. If he didn't make a statement, why did the Prime Minister go silent? Or was the arrival of the mulberry season effective or are they being quietly wheeled? Dear lawmakers, we're discussing the law of friends in shopping, the law of creating new resources and resources for allies. The council will consist of 11 people, 2 will be elected by our President, 7 will be appointed by the government, 1 will be determined by the SEC and 1 by the lawyers. Where's the citizen, where's the citizen, where's the man? There's government, there's government, there's RDC, there's one lawyer, there's no citizen. But Mr. President, wouldn't it be better if, along with the CEC and the government, the counsel's quota was raised to 2, the NGO and the press were assigned to the Council of 1? Let us know that where a citizen is not represented, human rights crawl on the ground. The other day in Istanbul, a citizen of ours was beaten to death, literally crawling on the ground. The government didn't see, the government didn't see, the government saw, saw a citizen, filmed. It's a good thing he saw it, or he'd have been shot, like most of the cases. Those who have been tried without evidence, who face criminal charges, who face criminal fabrications, have been facing death sentences in prisons for years. How will human rights be protected by laws that make it look like this? This question is intended for those who respect human rights and others who do not. Our esteemed deputies, human rights boards in Turkey are sometimes formed, but these boards are not sincerely pursuing human rights. This law cannot serve the desired purpose if only some of it will provide people with the right to self - control, resources, and resources. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I hope that the President of the Human Rights Board is not already determined, the members of the Board are not already determined; while it is determined, neutral, respected, truly respected members of the human rights. With that thought, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0073par0066	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0074par0069	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0073par0070	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request, and I'll grant it: Mr. Gök, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Ekinci, Mr. Öner, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Acar, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Faryan, Mr. Özturk. I'll give you five minutes.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0075par0074	Mr. President, until you give me 20 minutes. You have entered the history of the assembly; for the first time since 1920, five minutes have been given.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0073par0076	Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse. : Unacceptable. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Article 22 (4) There is a motion in the fourth joke, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the amendments be made by replacing the term "part" with the word "part" in place of the word "subject" in place of the following bill 279 rows, which has been changed and removed from the scope of legislation, aborting the staff and violating it. Levent Gök Haydar Akar Haluk Eyidoğan Bornt Tezcan Ali Haydar Öner Kemal Ekinci Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0076par0092	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0073par0093	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0077par0094	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0073par0095	Bulent Tezcan, Aydın MP, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0078par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're discussing the Turkish Bill of Human Rights Act. Now, it's an interesting coincidence that while discussing this bill, I received a fax from Didim district of Aydın Province: Didim Kaymamlik, who has been working for a long time in Didim district, who has been trying to send the demolition of the mosque and cultural center building. Now, first of all, let's say that Didim's Sub-Committee has no fault in this article and in this process; let's just hand it over, because there's nothing else he can do because of the existing legislation. He wrote about the collapse of his temple on the treasury land, which he naturally has to do within the framework of the Court of Didim. Let's put him on the side. Dear friends, there's something else we need to focus on: Look, we're talking about human rights. My fellow AKP MPs, you have spoken of freedom of faith, right to live and worship as you have believed for many years, and you are also very skilled at bonding that right to politics; let us give you your due. Dear friends, look, is freedom of faith, right to worship, right to live as he believes, a right to believe only in a certain sect? Now, mosques are built on treasured land in Turkey. There are places of worship for mosques on their treasured land, and in their plans for development is a place of worship, and in the mosque they go and worship. Well, half the population of this country, in the same way, they want to live their faith in the mosques. Now, when it comes to the mosque, why do you not feel the need to pay the same attention to human rights when it comes to giving up the property of the treasure and giving up the right to live people's beliefs? You've been in power since ten years, and none of you can justify legislation for ten years. Since ten years ago, the AKP's government has been in charge of Turkey's government, which is often not in the history of the Republic of Turkey, and if there is a flaw in the legislation, then that's your shame, and that's your human rights. Dear friends, while I now discuss the bill for the establishment of a human rights institution, I once again call on the political power: correct this shame! Correct this shame, and stop longing for the right to live in Turkey's beliefs to just one particular sect. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, look, during the AKP's ruling period, Turkey has come to a very efficient, skilled point in human rights violations. Our people are being tortured in prisons. More recently, in more than 15 to 20 square meters, you have on your shoulders the plague of being a government that burns up close to 40 prisoners and prisoners in the heat of 42 degrees [42 degrees] of Jaffa and a fire on top of that. Dear friends, look, we have the International Amnesty's Human Rights Report of 2012: Amnesty International found that in 2012 Turkey took place at the head of countries where police regularly used excessive and disproportionate force in social events. The number of unsolved murders in your ten-year-old power during the AKP ruling period is 245, the unsolved executions 401, the people killed in custody 283! In a process like this, you're a weak authority with a report card on human rights. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0079par0111	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There is a motion in Article 22 (5) that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 22 of the proposed bill 279 shall be changed in the following way. The staff listed on Ekli (1) has been cancelled and has been removed from the additional rules of the Court of Law No. 190, and has been added as the supplementary Department of Human Rights (I) to rule 190. Intuitive God-like Malik Ecder Özdemir Levent Gök Mahmut Tanal Hussein Aygün Veli Ağbaba Melda Onur Engin Özkoç Free Special Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0080par0127	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0079par0128	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0081par0129	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0079par0130	It's the Alliance MP Attila Kart who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0082par0132	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. I will express our views and thoughts on the motion we have made regarding the 22nd article. My dear friends, the Human Rights Institution, which we are meeting today, had previously been acting as the Human Rights Advisory Board during the 58th Government. At the time, the work was being carried out under the responsibility of the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ertugrul Yalçınbayır, and very serious work was being done. At the point of truly fulfilling human rights in accordance with the purpose of human rights, the work was carried out with understanding that protects the individual, the individual's rights and laws, based on institutional, social pluralism, but for some reason, these studies have disturbed the government. There, under the influence of the March 1st thesis, is the work of Mr. Ertugrul Yalçınbayir, who, under the influence of Ertuğrul Yalçınbayır's opposition to March 1st, we have seen the Human Rights Advisory Council being deactivized. After that, it became inoperable, at the Human Rights Foundation, a multitasking work was done, and today, finally, a company of government agents, government officials, government officials, government officials came to our face. It is incompatible with the nature of the object that such an institution protects human rights. So you're up there, you're building a structure in a direct sense of a party officer, where you're waiting for the establishment of human rights. Obviously that won't be possible. Look, I just... in connection with the issue, at the request of the ruling group's vice presidents, I feel the need to renegotiate. Just a month ago, 20 days ago, a test was made to pass from lawyer to judge. Here, 15 days before the test results were announced, 15 days before May 30th. We said that a week and ten days ago, from the government to today, there's been no reaction, no explanation. Our friends told us to inform, so that we could take care of it. Hopefully, our friends will follow up on the matter, inform the public on the responsibility of being the group's vice president. I give you my name, my dear friends: Who is the first test? A K, exactly 15 days ago, is the name of the person mentioned. But it's not enough, who's the second test? A N K, his wife. So her husband wins, and her husband wins, right? The 16th and 17th are apparently married. I can also give you their address, and Erzurum is a lawyer at the same address. The 50th of the exam, BM S, is an attorney at the same office as the husband and wife whose name I just mentioned in the 2nd place. However coincidental, three people from the same office are winning the pass from lawyer to judge. This person is a judge, a judge, and he's not a lawyer, and he doesn't have a case file registered to his name in the UYAP. The position of A K and N K is 86 points, 81 points. At the same address, they appear to be brothers. The position of H B and O B will hopefully draw the Minister's attention: 83/4, 82/1 points. The address is Istanbul. Looks like they're married. So it's an understanding that one of the husband and wife has been promised, in those relationships, in the relationship of the parish, in the relationship of the party officer, but it's not enough. Let's move the second person from the same family and the 2nd lawyer from the other family. They're known to be married. The address is Erzurum. The location of T A and S K is: they work from the same branch in Iconium; they are different; they are not husband and wife, but they work from the same office. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear friends, I'm moving on. They're called Kahramanmarash, sir, head of central county, etcetera. Look, in the name of political dignity, in the name of political morality, in the name of right, in the name of justice, and in the name of the right of the subject, I think we should answer for them. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0083par0143	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Commission has a request to correct the following article (1), which is subject to Article 22.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0084par0146	Mr. President, we would like to request a change in the terms of the declaration in the title of Article 22 in the form of provisions.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0083par0147	Noted. I submit to your votes the 5th joke, which is based on Article 22, which those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in the temporary article 1. I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 279 rows, is temporary. Article 5. We propose and supply to change the terminology in the joke to........ Intuitive God-like Malik Ecder Özdemir Levent Gök Mahmut Tanal Hussein Aygün Haydar Akar 279 Sequential Bill 1. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali İlm Ali Öz Mehmet Erdoğan Emin Çınar Seyfetttin Yilmaz Şişek Güçük Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0085par0163	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0083par0164	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0086par0165	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0083par0166	Mr. Vural, any words on the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0087par0167	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0083par0168	I'm reading the reason: On the basis of applications and convictions over 52 years, Turkey has become the most infringement of the Convention on Human Rights. The Department of Human Rights, established by the Ministry of Justice, has signed a principle and established a website where the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) has issued its most recent decisions on Turkey, especially for the benefit of judges and prosecutors. The website also included 52 years of EU statistics on Turkey. Based on applications from 1959-2011 and the release of convictions, Turkey has been the most infringement of the European Convention on Human Rights (AIDS) with 2,404 convictions. In statistics on the violations of the ECHR, Turkey has not lost to anyone the title of being the most convicted in numerous areas. In areas such as life rights and torture, 15,940 applications against Turkey, ranked second in Russia, have yet to be decided. In the 52-year period, Turkey, except for a few areas, has not lost its first place to anyone. Turkey has been condemned 554 times over "freedom and security rights" due to lack of effective investigation, 729 times over "fair trial," 207 times over "freedom of expression," 53 times over "the freedom of speech and the freedom of demonstration," and has been sentenced to 611 times over all countries in cases brought against these substances of the ECHR. Turkey, who has been convicted 92 times in life-right violation cases, lost its first place in this category to Russia, which has 202 convictions, and took second place. It noted that 30 countries on the list have no convictions for their right of life violations. Russia ranked first with 217 convictions on "ethin investigation," while Turkey came second with 138 convictions. Russia left Turkey second in the area of "no abuse" with 357 convictions and 243 convictions. In the area of the trial, Italy was on top of second-place Turkey. Following Italy with 1,155 convictions, Turkey with 493 convictions, Russia with 38 convictions and 37 convictions came second. Your report card is full. Except for Russia, all countries have at least one substance that the ECHR has never violated, while Turkey's report card, such as Russia, is empty. 21 per cent of Turkey's convictions were given "fair trial," 17 per cent "right of property," 15 per cent "right of freedom and security," 13 per cent "long of judgment." The ECHR concluded 65 per cent of Turkey's applications, given the total application. A total of 2,747 Turkish applications (59 per cent) were found unacceptable or dropped from the register. The number of applicants waiting to reach a decision on Turkey is 35 per cent of all applications so far. Possible convictions from an application waiting to reach 15,940 verdicts could lead to Turkey's failure to lose first place. The 1,400 ECHR decision, the execution of ECHR decisions, reports, reports are available at www.inhak.adalet.gov.tr., where the basic text of human rights is loaded, including Turkey's ECHR report card. Comparative tables from 1959-2011 on the page of statistics taken from the ECHR page revealed that Turkey was the most infringinged country of 47 countries to the ECHR over 52 years. Russia followed Turkey, where 2,747 decisions were made, with 2,166 decisions, Italy, with 1,212 decisions. Turkey was sentenced to compensation for violating at least one Article of the ECHR on 2,404 of the 2,747 cases, which were agreed on during the 52-year period. Turkey's 204 cases, which have been justified in 57 cases, have resulted in a friendly solution or decision to fall. Turkey has been convicted of 87.5% of the total decisions. These numbers gave Turkey the title "the country with the most prisoners." The establishment of the institution, which is referred to for these reasons, would be unrealistic. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0088par0185	I want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0083par0186	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Gök, Mr. Tüyük, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Fırat, Mr. Öner, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Acar, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Kart, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Soydan, Mr. Turk, Mr. Tunay. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 279 rows, is temporary. Article 5. We propose and supply to change the terminology in the joke to........ Sezgin Godkulu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0089par0202	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0083par0203	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0090par0204	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0083par0205	It's Haydar Akar who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0091par0207	Mr. President, we've come to the finals slowly, but it doesn't matter that we're coming to the finals on the matter of the law, when such an important law, with the support of all opposition, is supposed to be passed, while the government has created such a law and institution that will serve itself, thus adding a new institution to its list. It's not the first time he's done this, we're used to it. Look, they've tried this before in TÜBA, when the Council of Ministers has decided to form its administration in TÜBA, when the General Assembly, when they don't have the title of a scientist, they sent it here to the General Assembly, but you had to give it up as a result of the intense pressure of academic circles, especially academic circles abroad, and you got TÜBITAK to choose it. But it was a hoax. What kind of deception? TÜBİTAK has again chosen many members of the AKP government and the outcome remains unchanged. The same thing is being done here, and you're trying to form an institution where seven members of the government are appointed and elected by the President. To allow this institution to work, the government will become a Tandansian institution. Human rights violations in the country are already being committed by the government's directive or the organs of the state, and it is clear that such an institution, which is created by government officials, will not serve that purpose. Well, what was to be done? A free institution should be able to form an institution with a free budget and an institution for civil society organisations and barrooms in Turkey and make their decisions freely. Can such an institution work in Turkey? In order for such an institution to work not only in Turkey but also in the world, it needs to be democratic, so it needs to be run in a democratic way. So, is Turkey run by democracy? No, Turkey is not ruled by democracy today, Turkey has a one-man power, and representatives of that power are busy just raising their hands and putting them down. Why am I saying this? Because we've been trying so hard to keep our friends in this room all evening, but we couldn't get them to do it, and we probably won't be able to. Now, friends, why do I say this in a democratic country? You received approval from the public ten years ago under the name of democracy, and you continue to receive it these days, but one day you'll bump into it, and I'll tell you every time. Why am I saying this? Because there is no freedom of speech in Turkey. If there was freedom of expression, these laws would be discussed in universities today, in NGOs today, and the previous Ombudsman's Act would be debated, with laws such as the previous 4+4, and that common mind would come to parliament and that would be concluded with the support of opposition parties in parliament. But none of this is being done. Just here? Look, we had a Uludere incident. No country anywhere in the world would kill its own people, and if it did, it would punish it. Have you witnessed such an event in Europe, in the countries ruled by democracy? You can't be. It's been six months, we don't know who's responsible. We know who's responsible, but we can't figure it out. Why can't we solve it? Because the country, the state, is killing its own people. And how will this committee respond when they apply? He won't, and they'll get away with something to save the day. There are more detention periods in Turkey than in all European countries, even without detention. Like yesterday's Istanbul incident, the police are packing it up, you're an unknown citizen. First he boils there, first he tortures there, first he drops a guard there, then he brings it to the police station, and then the detention period begins, as if it were a new incident. Not only that, there's torture in their detention period. He's afraid to go to the police stations. A female citizen is calling the other day, saying: "The commissioner is harassing us, the commissioner is accusing us of all kinds of crimes and threatening to throw us out, threatening to beat us up." However, the lengths of their imprisonment, the conditions of the prison... look, 13 people anywhere in the world died in a prison... which was neglected by this state. Our friends have been doing inspections in prisons for months, and these audit results are coming out of these podiums. You haven't respected any of the conclusions they've made from this stand, and in the course of your administration, you've burned 13 people. Yes, you did, and no one can argue otherwise. If such an incident had happened in another country, he would have resigned from there or committed harakiri to himself, and today he would not have filled that seat. But unfortunately -- since responsible people don't run this country, other people are responsible for all the negative events, and the good things that are done in Turkey are responsible for. As Mr. Arinc explained, good things are made out of them, God-given things are made of them, but bad things are never infected, as if other governments have ruled this country for ten years. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0092par0216	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0093par0220	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0092par0221	There's a roll call. I'll do it.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0094par0222	We've been asked to check in every five minutes.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0092par0223	Please, Congressman... Mr. Gök, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Fırat, Mr. Öner, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Acar, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Turk, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Soydan. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] Congressmans, I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I vote item: those in favor of... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on Article 23 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 23rd draft of the current 279 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. This law is enforced on 01,07,2012. Intuitive God-like Malik Ecder Özdemir Levent Gök Mahmut Tanal Hussein Aygün Salih Fırat Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0095par0244	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0092par0245	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0096par0246	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0092par0247	Salih Firat, Adıyaman MP.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0097par0249	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, in the law of the Human Rights Institution which is being discussed... in Turkey, of course, you know, it is now accepted by everyone that we have a good record for human rights, that we have a bad record, that we have a bad record for human rights; that with his opposition and his power, the violation of human rights in Turkey is at an extreme level, that we have a bad record among the countries of the European Union. Of course, as a basic criterion, we think you need to love people first, so you need to embrace the word human. No matter who it is, no matter what it is, you have to love religion, race, and creation because of the Creator, and then you have to seek human rights. Look, in Turkey... imagine a country with three times its capacity in prisons... where three people are arrested or convicted, college students get tens of years in prisons because they want free education. I mean, we've made laws, we've made laws so that no human being can even have the courage to express himself, not even claim a human right, not even the right to universal human rights. And they say, "It is bad," but they do it even worse when they come to power. The current AKP government has ruled Turkey for ten years, but has taken no measures to violate human rights. Look, Turkey is being punished at the European Court of Human Rights all the time. This is a disgrace to Turkey, a disgrace to humanity. Why did we become like this, so why did all these people go to prison in Turkey, all these people get arrested, all these people go to jail for wanting their rights? After September 12th, especially after September 12th, the junta of the period crushed all our people. In particular, the social democrats and Kurds were crushed. Yes, he has crushed all the sections, but especially the Kurds and the social democrats have crushed the left thought and prepared today's ruling state. Of course, today's government does not see the need to change the laws of that period because it is here with the laws. So, look, just yesterday we had martyrs in Hakkari, and our young people died. Every day we give martyrs to terror in Turkey. The Kurdish issue, the Kurdish problem, the terrorism problem, or whatever you call it, there is a problem on the first agenda of Turkey. This problem isn't being solved, it's getting harder and harder. Look, guys, the Turkish Penal Code, the private court, the anti-terrorism laws, they've always been passed. It's terrorism, but there's no analysis of why terrorism is happening in Turkey, why it's happening. Why don't we investigate terrorism in Turkey. For years we denied the word Kurdt, no Kurd. We said, "There are no Kurds." We said, "There are no Kurds." We said, "There are no Kurds." We forbade people to speak Kurdish.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0098par0258	You did it wrong.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0097par0259	Can a man have the right to choose his language from his mother when he is born? You have banned native languages.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0099par0260	You forbid it, and we forbid it?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0098par0261	You banned it, we released it.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0097par0262	After that, you made a law to put people in jail who wanted to speak in their language. You put stone-throwing kids in jail. You put kids in jail who wanted free education. You have imprisoned people who oppose the current government in the west, called Ergenekon, in the east, "KCK (KCK)." Tens of thousands of our people have been exposed to unsubs, and there's still no word on who killed them. In this law, when this institution is being formed, its institution is the government. Imagine a government who violates human rights, kills people, puts people in jail, arrests people, doesn't answer, an institution founded by the government will rise up and question the government. Everyone laughs at this contradiction, and they say, "What is this?" That's not an institution. There's the Bar Association, there's the Turkish Medical Association, there's labor unions, there's labor groups, there's employer groups. Let them send their staff, that's how this institution works. The government will choose, and then this institution will come and criticize the government's violation of human rights. Not this one. Therefore, this law is not in line with its purpose. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0100par0266	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0101par0269	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0100par0270	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a request for roll call. Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Firat, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Akar, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Ekinci, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Soydan, Mr. Şafah, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Coach, Mr. Öz. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Now, I'm reading the names of the compass senders: Mr. Ramazanoglu? No. Mr. Gürsoy Erol? Here. Mr. Arinc? Here. Mr. Ayhan Sagittarius? Here. Mr. Mehmet Akyürek? No. Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 24th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 24th draft of the current bill 279 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. ▪ These laws are carried out by the Council of Ministers by receiving the opinion of the Turkish Commission for Human Rights Review of Human Rights. Intuitive God-like Malik Ecder Özdemir Levent Gök Mahmut Tanal Hussein Aygün Salih Fırat B. Suheyl Batum İlhan Demiröz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0102par0299	You can't process the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0103par0300	Sir, we're a commission of the legislature, we can't agree to such a motion. Thank you. We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0104par0302	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0105par0303	Sir, you can't file this motion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0106par0304	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0105par0305	You can't process the motion, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0107par0306	Ilhan Demiröz has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0105par0308	Turkey is not the executive body of the Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0108par0309	How do you proceed with the motion, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0105par0310	I mean, the Human Rights Commission...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0109par0311	For what, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0105par0312	The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is legislature, not the executive authority, is out of the question for sharing the administration.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0110par0313	The Constitution is against the Constitution, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0105par0314	It's not even right to process this motion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0111par0315	I agree.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0105par0316	Well, I mean, what's it gonna be like if it's accepted?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0112par0317	Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0113par0318	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding Article 24/7 of Turkey's Human Rights Institution Act 279, which is being discussed. I salute you all. Human rights should not be perceived in the sense of individual freedom. Today, in our country, we face a phenomenon that will have a negative effect on future generations. It's an experimentation board in terms of our country's GMO-based genetically modified organism product. On 23/12/2011, 13 types of corn were allowed to be used for bait. Mr. Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has expressed that GMO foods are harmful to animals, that there is no danger to humans. Since it is not mandatory for us to label meat, milk, eggs, and cheese, from animals that are fed with GMOs, from animals that are fed with GDO, will our people not be part of an unknown experiment? Dear lawmakers, I'd like to give you two examples of human rights from my constituency. One of them is the Bursa Orhaneli Başköy marble quarry. I'd like to point out that water sources have been contaminated by the work of this marble furnace for years, and although this has been identified by the State Special Administration, there has been no action so far, the village chief and the Elders' Committee have resigned to attract attention. Isn't that a violation of human rights? My second example: there's a textile factory in Orhangazi. This factory, which worked well until 2000, was handed over to a B company, a financial institution because of the debt it had received, and the owner of an interested firm worked here for years as a tenant. However, on May 14, 2012, this financial institution stated that it closed the factory and put the workers at the door, that there was no severance pay for the workers. Workers are on strike from May 14, 2012, friends, and I would like to say that from here, a mother has been working for minimum wage to bring her child in Mugla. She has not been paid for four months, and the fate of 200 of our fellow workers has not been known. It is not stated to our friends what rights are passed on to any contract. In this regard, isn't it a violation of human rights that our friends today have lost their jobs, their problems with work? Dear lawmakers, it must be difficult to predict an insensitive understanding of such a phenomenon, human rights, that the government, which is so insensitive in these matters today -- I've just given an example that we can do thousands of examples in Turkey -- in this regard, it cannot go beyond making a law on human rights. Why am I saying this? Because our villagers ask you not to take out the laws you can't abide by -- clean water, watering water, and our workers ask for job security. I give you all my love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0114par0326	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0115par0329	Request roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0114par0330	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request, and I'll grant it. Mr. Gök, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Firat, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Akar, Mr. Silver, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Clean, Mr. Ekici, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Öz, Mr. Soydan. Yeah, I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. In accordance with Article 86, Recep Special, Isparta MP who wants to express the color of the game and in favour of it.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0116par0345	Mr. President, we've completed negotiations with the highly valued MPs, Law 279 rows. I have made a promise to state the color of my vote. I salute you all. Since last night, the law has come to a good place with the positive contribution of our opposition. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) We'd like to hear more of these contributions. Hopefully, they'll make the same contribution to all the laws ahead of us. I declare that my vote is yes, and I salute you all, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0117par0349	Thank you. Levent Gök, Ankara MP who wants to express the color of the game and speak against it.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0118par0352	Mr. President, you've taken one of the most weighty decisions in this Parliament today from the history of our political history and the origins of our Turkish Republic to the present day. How you clap, how you digest, it's hard not to wonder. It's a law of shame; it's a law of shame! Human rights failed today in Turkey, and today the ruling has failed in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0119par0354	The decision is ours, the credit is ours. People's appreciation. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0118par0355	Dear MPs, we once again believe that today Turkey will not be allowed to leave you to your fate in the slightest. You've been undermining human rights today. (HPP) You have caused Turkey a shame today. You've pushed all the principles out of hand in a way that the whole world has rejected, that the European Union has set its sights on Turkey, what kind of law it says it's going to make. Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0120par0357	Dear Sky, please.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0119par0358	Mr. President, don't talk like that, okay? Let him take that back, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0118par0359	Human rights is a sacred right not to be left to you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0119par0361	Woe to you! What kind of person is that?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0121par0362	Please, Mr. Sky, can this sentence be used?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0119par0363	Don't talk like that, Mr. President. Let him take that back, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0122par0364	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0119par0365	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0123par0366	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0124par0367	Dear Sky, please...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0125par0368	We're not leaving it to you. Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0126par0370	You're being disrespectful. There's no disrespect like that.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0125par0371	You have violated the human rights of Turkey. You've surrounded the media, you've surrounded the judiciary. You want to surround human rights; we won't let him.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0126par0373	Don't talk like that.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0125par0374	Human rights are too high to fit into your siege. We, the Republican People's Party, will stand up to you. Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0127par0375	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0125par0376	I'm really ashamed to see a power that has brought human rights so far underfoot and a council group.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0128par0377	We're ashamed of you, ashamed of people like you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0125par0378	You opposed the views of all civil society, the most respected people of all Turkey. How do you applaud them? How do you clap? How do you digest it? Today, you will be subjected to this shameful painting of yours in Turkey. The civil rights advocates will be asking you to account for it. You have declared human rights today.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0129par0379	We've seen your human rights!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0125par0380	Of course, you did it on purpose. Because every day, every minute, in Turkey, you're undermining human rights. You needed a human rights institution that was your officer. You want an officer's office, you want an assigned agency. Here, take this organization. How long are you going to carry it? You won't be able to carry it. Starting tomorrow, all the human rights advocates will be on the streets. What did you do? He's gonna grab you for what you've done!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0129par0381	We know your human rights!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0125par0382	Speak, speak! But our conscience is free, our forehead is clear.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0130par0384	Tell me my lesson.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0125par0385	Today, we're going to vote to reject a law of our own. We always have words to talk about. We go to Turkey's human rights history with our documents, our talks.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0131par0386	We know, we know!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0125par0387	You will pass through with shame. The Republican People's Party will not leave you with this challenge, my dear friends. Human rights advocates, NGOs, that's the real face of the AKP. They're bringing in an officer agency against their own violations. We don't know this office. This office is yours, it's AKP's, it's yours, it's not Turkey's human rights institution. So we're gonna put our chests to rest, our conscience is clear, our forehead is clear, we're gonna vote against that law.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0132par0390	Go... go...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0133par0391	I want to talk to you about bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0134par0392	Here you go, Mr. Canikli. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please don't give me another pick-me-up.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0133par0397	Dear friends, that's what people's will is. He slaps them so high, he hits them so hard, it messes up their chemistry. The vote that every friend of ours uses here represents the will of the nation, does not represent the will of another.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0135par0398	They're instructions. They're instructions. It's all instructions.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0133par0399	If you're looking, you're looking for an example of how will you take out a mortgage, you're going to look at the Constitutional talks.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0135par0401	You're doing it under instructions.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0133par0402	You'll remember how your group was blocked here in the constitutional debates, how you voted by order, by order, by order.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0135par0403	There's no human rights, Canikli. You know that, you all know that.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0133par0404	When you're here to press charges, you'll have to look at your own past first. You'll look at your own history and then you'll talk.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0135par0405	You all have historical responsibility.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0133par0406	Here, these friends, these MPs and all the lawmakers are actually using the will of the nation.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0136par0407	Look at your history, look at your dark history.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0133par0408	You may have a problem with people's will; it could have been 30 years, it could have been 50 years.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0136par0409	Your history is bigotry and regression.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0133par0410	Maybe this problem -- the problem with the will of the people -- could take another 50 years, could take a hundred years. It'll take a hundred years at this rate, but that's not our problem. However, the people's will here will continue to be used in the most powerful way, even if you shout...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0137par0411	You're against civil society, against everyone.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0133par0412	...will continue whether you call, whether you jump, or jump.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0137par0414	Everyone threw it away, everyone pushed it away.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0133par0415	You have to respect that.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0138par0416	You're being disrespectful, your life is disrespectful.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0133par0417	The people who don't respect the will and vote used here are desecrating their will, that's what they do.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0138par0418	You're disrespectful.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0133par0419	You give your opinion, your opinion, your criticism...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0139par0420	Where do we sing?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0133par0421	You make all kinds of criticisms, no one can object to that, they never have. He's been criticizing the opposition all morning, and no one can appeal to him. You say what you think, and if you contribute, you do it. As a matter of fact, several motions have been adopted in the talks since yesterday, and the motions of our friends from the opposition have been accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0139par0422	Which one did you accept?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0133par0423	That's perfectly natural.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0139par0424	Which one did you accept? You weren't even at the meeting.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0133par0425	But you can't go out here and think disrespectfully about the opinion and opinions of our friends who are here on this mission, who, after all, have to justify the will of the nation here. It's disrespectful to people. It's disrespectful to the will of the nation. We deny it, we return it. You may not respect the will of the people, you may look down on them, but we bow before that will...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0139par0427	Instructions, instructions...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0133par0428	... and I say once again that we will faithfully carry out the mission of that will to this Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I express once again that we will do as our nation asks, without any difficulty at the moment of will, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0140par0430	Mr. President, Mr. Canicli...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0141par0432	Congressmans, please... why are you interfering?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0142par0433	What are you yelling about? This is our group president speaking. What are you yelling about?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0141par0434	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0143par0435	In his speech, Mr. Canikli said, "Look at your shameful history." He said, "You have no respect for the will of the people."
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0144par0436	Look at your history. I said, there is no word to be ashamed of, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0143par0437	...and publicly insulted our party, the corporate personality of our party, by saying that many motions have been accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0145par0438	You're saying he picked on her on this occasion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0143par0439	Yes, there's teasing, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0145par0440	This is according to Article 69 of the Civil Code. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Please don't let us make a new taunt.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0143par0444	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute you all. Mr. Canikli, there's no shame in our history. In our history, there is a Battle of Salvation.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0146par0447	In the history of the nation, that War of Salvation is not in your history.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0147par0448	I've got class, Ders.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0143par0449	We have Lausanne in our history. In our history, Hatay has joined the homeland, and there is the beginning of the railways. In your history, behind you, only Remzi Gür.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0148par0451	There's people behind us, people.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0143par0452	You're not free-willed MPs. You've surrendered your free will.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0149par0454	You're one to talk, you're one to talk.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0143par0455	By issuing the MIT Act, you are here to connect the Human Rights Institution to the Council of Ministers, to leave the state secret between the two lips of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, you are building an institution with no autonomy, no budget. You're in a power-drunk state. You may have brought all the institutions to their knees, conquered all the institutions, transformed all the institutions, altered them, made them servants to you, but the Republican People's Party in this nation's Assembly will continue to resist. [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] We have college reform in our history, village institutes, cement factories, sugar factories...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0150par0458	There are bans...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0143par0459	...there are riots against the Republic in your history. We have the victory of the First Inönu behind us, the victory of the Second Inönu...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0151par0460	There are blows behind your back, blows.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0143par0461	...with a jacket behind you, the jacket, that's all.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0151par0463	He's got coup d'état, he's got Ergenekon law.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0143par0464	Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit03spe0152par0466	Thank you. [[Continue]] The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, as a result of an open vote by Turkey's Human Rights Institution Act: ▪ Number of votes used: 244 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Özlem Yemişçi So the bill is accepted and legalized. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0152par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 123th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin negotiations with the State Secret Law Bill and the European Union Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 3rd place. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 287 rows. Congressmans, according to the decision taken, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin who has asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the entire bill.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0153par0010	Mr. President, I have been promised by the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the State Secret Bill. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, it's customary to talk about respect for national will in the Justice and Development Party's rule, such as often talk about honesty in an environment where democracy is spoken in countries without democracy, where there is really no honesty. Now, the AKP Deputy Director of the Group has just spoken of respect for national will. Now, friends, respecting national will in the Justice and Development Party's rule is not just following what the majority party says; it means respecting the process of lawmaking, the technique, the method, the morality, its dedication, its integrity. Now, I'd like to express my regret. I regret, my dear friends, that legal activities in the Justice and Development Party's government are truly only made up of the lifting and lowering of the fingers of lawmakers of the majority party. Now, I have the bill, the state secret. Everybody see, the TV's off, maybe the public won't see it. Now, don't look at it this thick, don't look at it as this thick, it's got the Justice Commission's report, the subcommittee's report, there's opposition to the subcommittee, and there's a report from the top commission, there's opposition to the top commission. (x) 287 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. My dear friends, this law is a total of 13 articles, two interim substances, but how do you get it here? It's being brought in as the basic law. Now, I wish Canikli was here talking about national will, respect. Look, I want to be very clear here: what is the basic law? The 91st Article of the Civil Code immediately defines what the basic law is. The basic law is the law where drafts and proposals are discussed in sections, not matter, but matter, without reading. Well, is every bill and proposal considered the basic law here because the government asked for it? Don't they have conditions, conditions, restrictions for a fundamental law? I do. I'm reading the 91st article of Parliamentary Interior, and it says: "What general principles does this bill now contain, along with the interim clauses, in order to systematically or broadly change a legal branch? Which law is systematically changing its course? We're going to go on: that it concerns much of personal or social life; that it demonstrates the basic concepts based on special laws in its field; that there is a need for harmony between special laws; that there should be integrity in its area and the protection of connections between matter; that there should be a law in the previous legislative phases, such as in private discussion and voting procedures; that, for God's sake, if you love your own law, it should be considered a fundamental law in this 13th article proposal? I've done it, I've done it. Now, now, does democracy, national will, the majority party deserve a minority? Is it democracy when the majority party in parliament dictates over opposition parties? Is that respect for national will? Respect for national will, respect for Parliamentary Council, Constitution, lawmaking technique, morality, and dedication first. My dear friends, this bill of law that we are discussing in our Constitution will not be carried out. Although it is clearly against the rule of crime, the state secret has continued and has been blocked by the concept of the state secret of many crimes. Gladio-type organizations have ruled for many years under the name of the state of the deep and continued to commit crimes under protection and protection in our country. Since the 1970s in particular, criminal organizations have been terrorized by mass killings, unsolved deaths, as an excuse to protect the state, to ensure the state's safety, and protected by using the concept of state secrets. Now, with this bill, the situation is legalized. This bill is the biggest set in front of the struggle to democratise the state, to free the individual. In addition to many powers he has gathered so far, the Prime Minister has received new powers with this bill. Since it is a crime to reveal what is a state secret, what is not a state secret, what is a crime to reveal according to the law, what is not a state secret, the Prime Minister will actually determine, and the courts will have the right not to submit documents. Because according to the provision of Article 5 of the bill, the State Secret Evaluation Board shall decide the protection of information, documents, and registration due to state secrets. Again, according to the 7th article, titled declusion of state secrets, the Council will decide again that information that is protected as a state secret is no longer a state secret because it has lost its capacity to be a state secret. According to Article 8 of the bill, information, documents and records, which are a state secret demanded by the courts, may not be given to the courts, unless the Council wants to. So, now, who's this board on the bill? This was stated in Article 4 of the bill. What does the fourth article of the bill, titled the State Secret Evaluation Board, say? It says: The State Secret Evaluation Board consists of ministers of Justice, Foreign Affairs, Internal Affairs and National Defence, headed by the Prime Minister. And who's going to say so on this board? Of course it's what the Prime Minister says. Who's the Prime Minister? He's the head of the government. Who are the ministers? Members of the government, politicians who run the state. The ministers have no say in the Prime Minister's words, whatever the Prime Minister says will happen. Likewise, since it is a crime to reveal state secrets according to our laws, the Prime Minister will in fact decide what is a state secret and what is not a state secret, the Prime Minister will actually be determined by the Prime Minister whether it is a crime or not to reveal what is a crime. However, according to our Constitution and the penal code, what is and what is not a crime will be determined by law. Therefore, it is the Turkish Grand National Assembly that has the authority to make laws to determine what is a crime. According to Article 38 of our Constitution, the administration cannot apply to any authority that results in limitation of freedom. Crime and punishment cannot be imposed on the regulatory procedures of the administration. However, the Council will determine what it is to explain with the bill as a crime, so the Prime Minister will decide. With the previous MIT Law and other laws, the Human Rights Institution Act, which has just been legalized, the Prime Minister's authority today, in Mussolini of Italy, Hitler of Germany, Franco of Spain, Pinochet of Chile, and none of the other fascist leaders of the world. If this bill becomes law, the Prime Minister will have only one knowledge of the secret business, the master of all secrets, the boss of all secrets. The Prime Minister will be the secret of the secret business. My secret cube. He'll take the bell from the Undersecretary of MIT, as he calls it. This bill is a new legal cover for the only man the Prime Minister wants to build, the despotic administration. This bill will move from authoritarian administration to totalitarian management. Another nail will be stuck in the coffin of democracy and freedom. The state secret will open the way for criminal activity. Many information will be withheld from the judicial process as a state secret. Hidden in the concept of state secrets, political killings will be covered up. This law will institutionalise political power's covert work, its evil administration. It will allow the government to operate in an irresponsible and unsupervised environment. The covert acts of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his companions behind closed doors will be state secrets, and those who reveal these covert jobs will be carried out in prisons on the grounds that they reveal the secret of the state. Corruption and corruption will grow further. The Prime Minister and his companions will be free from account for their mismanagement and their covert actions. Many information will be removed from the judicial process as a state secret. The concept of state secrets will be hidden behind political killings. No one can command the execution of a verb which the state of law considers a crime, and no one can do it. The rule will be rendered unworkable. A media that isn't criticized or questioned, a state secret hidden behind its economic, commercial, political power, the sensational investigations used to manipulate covert jobs into society, the hiding of non-employees in society, or even the growing inability to question the co-operation and subcontractorship of imperialism. No country has an open check for political power this size, friends, because rights violations are already done by the authorities as they are all over the world. There's no way the public and its rulers are going to siphon and corrupt banks, make a party with the money collected from the poor Muslims, buy television, buy ships, open accounts in Swiss banks, sign contracts to the grave in Dolmabahçe, sign a secret contract with the missile shield, prevent the investigation of unsolved murders, my dear friends. This bill is a review of the 15th amendment of the Constitution of 1982. The fascist rulers who did the 1980 coup brought in the 15th amendment to relieve themselves of the responsibility of their actions and transactions. And now the Justice and Development Party, who's run for office with the election and who thinks that he's the only one in a million wills, wants a mechanism to hide himself from the public. Now, I ask you, why would a party with an election want to hide itself from the public? Why does he have to withhold information he's wanted for 50 years? What's he trying to hide from the public? What did he do to cover them up for 50 years with a mystery? In what democracy is this seen, my friends? Why is the AKP trying to secure itself with such a law? Because when the political authorities are in secret business, they feel it's their nature to keep the need to conceal themselves as the government's ruler. The authorities often hide behind the curtain for negative reasons, such as hiding illegal, arbitrary management practices and avoiding control. There is an inverse relationship between democracy and freedom and the secret of the state. In societies, the extent of democracy's development and increasing freedoms is seen to be shrinking the area of state secrets, increasing transparency and transparency. Secret areas of domestic policy and security in particular are the source of tortures, judicial executions, unsolved murders, human rights violations, joys, lawlessness, corruption, and poverty. The desire to expand the areas of secrets is a concrete indication that the violations, which are intended to hide from the public, have increased corruption. Today, our people's basic need is not to give the Justice and Development Party government an open check on what to make a state secret, but rather to narrow it down as much as possible. The source of the kingdom is man. Its origin is the sovereignty of man, and therefore its state authority must be questioned, controlled. In the same way, the unsupervised state and state secret are two fundamental phenomena that support each other on the opposite front. The Justice and Development Party's Authority has always wanted an unknown area free of supervision. He's trying to get this area to agree with a state secret. The wider the unknown, secret areas, the less control opportunities, the less freedoms, both democracy. It is possible to put the concepts of authority, control, transparency, participation, freedom and democracy, state secret, unsupervised governance, bans, lawlessness, pleasure, authority state within the framework of the scale. Dear lawmakers, depending on the strengthening of fascism and Nazism, when the idea of reinvigorating the state and protecting political power prevails, the concept of the state's secret has become more important and more effective. The bill actually extends the containment field. This arrangement allows political power to conceal the information it wants, an authoritarian and totalitarian understanding that prevents control of power, eliminates the right to information, prefers privacy over a transparent, democratic, liberal regime. It is contrary to the 13th Article of the Constitution, and violates the right to information, creates a wide range of privacy, insecurity, privacy, freedom, transparency, and violates the basic principle of the democratic legal state. Hence, today, political power does not really need this arrangement. It is understood that political power has done this with the intention of creating a suit of irresponsibility because of its possible verbs, by determining the concept of state secret, to protect it and to protect itself. My dear friends, my fellow lawmakers, in fact, I started out this semester with the intention of fighting a lot, not hurting each other, but it turns out that the ruling of the Justice and Development Party, the group's MPs, in particular, are accusing the people of disrespecting the national will, not only with the understanding that the Justice and Development Party MPs represent the national will in the Grand Assembly of Turkey, but also with a constant cognitive understanding of their criticism. Let me say this right now: It is not disrespectful to criticize the Justice and Development Party. The lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party are here as a result of the national will, while the opposition party MPs are here as a result of the same national will. In fact, in the national will, if you remove the minority from the majority, it's not a government ruled by the principle of democratic law, which is the epithelial of the national will, it's a fascist dictatorship. Since the state of the Republic of Turkey is a democratic state of law, the ruling party must first defend the mechanisms that will guarantee the rights of the opposition, providing security for them. On the other hand, Mr. Group, I don't think it's appropriate for the Vice President, it's customary for me to suddenly pick on the Republican People's Party's past. Friends, as a member of the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0154par0038	Do you know what your own speaker is talking about? Look at your own speaker first.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0153par0039	...and as a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, I am proud of the heroes of our past. I am proud of this Ataturk, the 1st President of the People's Party of the Republic, Ataturk, Ismet Innu, Bkent Ecevit, Deniz Baykal, Hikmet Cetin, and Altan Öymen. Mr. Canikli, before you say those words, you'll have to look at this photograph first.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0154par0041	They're stale, they're stale, let them go.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0153par0042	Look, in this photo, you're going to see who's here. And in this photo, you'll see who this person is. We, our president, our presidents, have never sat at the foot of Hikmetyar, in this country.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0154par0043	Let them go, let them go!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0155par0044	You said "hero" then.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0153par0045	There is no man among us who is a lawyer for the people who burned alive in Sivas Madimamak. On the one hand, you're talking about human rights, while you're a member of the Constitutional Court who burned people alive in Sivas, and we don't have a single friend in this country who's a lawyer for those who've done the coup. I...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0154par0046	Are you opposed to the coup, the coup?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0153par0047	You be as against it as I am. I wasn't even a civil servant when you were a civil servant at that time. Look at you, Canikli, look in the mirror, look in the mirror. You look back, you look back, you look back. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] First you have to look at a man's past, his ability. You take care of him.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0156par0050	Mr. Ozturk, please...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0153par0051	You put aside the past of the Republican People's Party, you take care of your ancestors, your grandparents.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0156par0052	Please, Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0157par0053	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0153par0054	You're in the national interest of...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0156par0055	Mr. Ozturk, please... this is not the right style, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0157par0056	If he's got any dignity, let him say it. Let him say what he has to say, Mr. President, and let him out.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0153par0057	You can't defend cults and communities here.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0156par0058	Mr. Ozturk, please...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0157par0059	Mr. President, let's get him out of here. Tell him to come out with whatever he's got. If he's got any dignity, let him say it. This is not a disgrace, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0153par0060	You have no right to insult national will.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0157par0061	Don't let him be rude, let him out. Whatever he has, whatever he knows, let him go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0158par0062	Mr. Ozturk, please...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0157par0063	Otherwise, he's a mufti.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0159par0064	You should know your place! You should know your place!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0157par0065	If he knows something and can't say it, he's a mufter, Mr. President, let him out.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0159par0066	You're the mufti!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0160par0067	Mr. Ozturk, please leave the bench! Please...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0159par0068	I know what my word is.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0161par0069	Go out and tell me what you know.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0159par0070	Disrespectful man! If you're a congressman, I'm a congressman.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0161par0071	Tell me what you know. It's a bastard who doesn't!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0159par0072	You're the bastard!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0161par0073	He's the asshole who knows and doesn't say anything.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0159par0074	You're the bastard!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0161par0075	Son of a bitch!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0159par0076	You're the bastard!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0161par0077	Dirty bastard, aren't you ashamed?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0159par0078	Why are you picking on me? You dirty man!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit04spe0162par0079	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit05spe0162par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 123th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 287. The commission and the government are in place. Now, it is Oktay Ozturk, MP of Erzurum who has asked for the entire bill on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit05spe0163par0007	Mr. President, I would like to present to you the views of the National Movement Party on the Bill of State Secrets 287. I salute you all. Of course, before we begin my words, when we look at the Parliament, we'll soon see the MPs starting to run here with the Izmir March. They'll come in for a vote, but unfortunately, they'll vote without knowing what's being said here. This is the state of the House, and people are watching us, and I wanted to present it to them. The developments in state and community life require that transparency in governance be considered the main exception, and privacy as the exception. In this context, as in the whole world, it has become a necessity to remove barriers to social participation and control in our country. Of course, the concept of state secrets is a fact that does not allow doubt in this regard. Therefore, we believe that we need to pay extraordinary attention and attention to the current bill of law. As emphasised on the general reason of the bill, the main benefit for society is to protect the safety of the state, its national presence, its integrity, its constitutional order, its domestic and external interests. The concepts and interests mentioned require that some government information and documents remain confidential. The 10th article of the European Convention on Human Rights, which contains the title of freedom of expression, states that freedom of expression can be restricted in a democratic society as a necessary measure when national security and national benefits are needed. The way to make regulations on state secrets should not be ignored as well as the protection of the state's legitimate rights and democratic institutions. Of course, one of the main goals of making arrangements should be to remove transparency in public and obstacles to the right to information of citizens. While trying to remove obstacles to freedom of information as a need to be a democratic state, the national presence of the state, security, commercial and economic interests and international relations must not be harmed. If the balance cannot be balanced on these two fundamental issues, the state's survival as a national and powerful state may be debatable. In this particular area, the current bill contains significant shortcomings. The definition of the third article, which contains the government's secret title, reveals a lack of and insufficient approach. In particular, the fact that classified information, documents and records are excluded from the scope of the state's secret is the most important flaw or error in its ability to harm the commercial and economic interests of the state. Therefore, confidential information, documents, and records that may harm the state's commercial and economic interests must be included in the state secret. The main basis of political power's road maps, however, is the implementation of the European Union, which considers issues such as defence, national, economic interests, as well as state secrets. In the draft text, we want to think of the fact that information and documents for the commercial and economic interests of the state are excluded as a negligence. Otherwise, it occurs to us to ask, do some ruling members have different thoughts or accounts? Such an idea can be called treason by the most optimistic expression. We all know, though, that power is quite skilled in these matters. As you know, the Constitutional Court's decision on its last, last, final, self-inflicted presidential duties has made it clear. So, with the amendments to the constitution of 2010, I think, by calculating these days, the Constitutional Court has been shaped, and many members of the court have done it at the expense of the Constitution. But today's political majority must remember that the court does not possess the woman. They may need the justice system they've destroyed most of the time. I'm afraid with their actions, they may not be able to find the values they destroy, no matter how much they look for. You know, the one where they brag about their existence and run it like a weapon for the people they've seen standing in their way, the way they're struggling today about the special authorities' judicial institutions. The man of Asia will turn and turn, and he will turn, and the reckoning will come, and he will not say. What the Prime Minister has told someone is that Men wait a minute, in his English, he finds the word "Eden." We advise them never to forget the power and direct its actions by this way. Again, one of the key flaws in the draft text is the lack of criminal arrangements to be carried out in violation of draft laws and the lack of the investigative methods of public officials accused of opposition to the State Secret Law. As is known, these illegal actions can directly affect the security of society and the state. Therefore, the criminal arrangements to be carried out and the investigative methods of the criminal public officials must be made clear. The law should be open if investigations under this scope can be conducted directly by the republic's prosecutors, without a prerequisite of privacy under special law provisions. The use of media or other mass communication tools as part of the way the crime was committed should be considered a special source of hospitality. Even if there are regulations in the current legislation, the following conditions must be clearly regulated in this law, otherwise the current bill could lead to a lot of confusion and uncertainty in implementing it. We hope the government didn't do that on purpose. Because the draft text, which was drafted by the Ministry of Justice in 2003 as a result of the ongoing work on the current bill, had been drafted, but the fact that it was not included in the existing bill shows that there was no involuntary shortcomings. Does the Prime Minister think that this means that his problems with the 26th Amendment of the MIT Law can prevent him from living in a state-wide disclosure of state secrets? We do not wish to be heedless. However, it is not possible for us to expect anything other than the mentality of Turkish pride and consciousness, which has led to Islam's morality and virtue, which accuses nationalist, nationalist movement members of ignorance of Fatiha. The National Movement Party allergy, the MHP nightmare, the MHP hatred, has apparently caused anxiety, causing it to be heard by the ear of what comes out of its mouth; it panics and attacks the MHP and the countries as best it can. We do not know about Fatiha, and as a basis for that, I regret to say, we do not know about Fatiha, based on a joke produced by a sweet contest between the two cities, which is produced by a new one every day as an urban legend. We remind the Prime Minister: Is it about knowing Fatiha, or is it about carrying Fatiha? For more than a thousand years, the Turkish nation has been trying to move the Fatiha. If you destroy the bearer, you will render the judgment of Fatiha a meaningless one. We are well aware that we have no one's faith, no one's faith, no right to test it, and that we know too much about Islam to rule on these matters. We hope that no one needs to be futile, such as to test our faith and career. This mentality is a delusion that we inherited a rejection in the name of nationalism, that we violated the Ottoman and Seljukian spirit. As the President-General puts it, this mentality is never the same weight, class, size and size as we are. Hence, the lack of vision, understanding, or understanding of this mentality and its representatives will be manageable to a degree. However, it is worrying if our profession sees ethnic identities in its history, accepts the great will that challenges the jihan as a combination of languages, and lacks the mental ability to distinguish the empire from the national state. This is the mindset that disbands the Ottomans and causes them to shrink. First of all, I'd say that Mr. Prime Minister's attempt to fall in love with us about Seljuklu and the Ottomans, inviting us to read the history he doesn't know, is similar to the lack of horizons and the slip of consciousness that makes fountains by the river. And then there's the slander that we inherited from history, which, without a doubt, is not acceptable. Even at the level of slander that we reject history, a person needs to be kept sane. The Nationalist Movement Party is the only party and the only nation representative in Turkish politics today, who carries three crescents with honour, who are inspired by its meaning and meaning, trying to present the future. When we look at history, we see the Turk, the three crescents pulled over the jihad, the two-headed Seljulian eagle, which is a compass to humanity, and the nation's forces that will not fall. When he looks at this mentality, he sees the tyranny of the Crusaders, the corruption of his friends today, and the decay of the queens who slaved to foreign separatists in the 19th century. When we look at history, we see Mete Khan, Tuğrul Beyi, Alparslan, Osman Gazi, Sultan Fatih, Legal, Mustafa Kemal. When he looks at this mentality, he sees the Romanian Diojen, Prince Lazarus, Vojvoda (the staked man), and General Trikopis. When we look at history, we see an enormous national value of thousands of years, and when we look at this mentality, I am as Ottoman as the Ottoman Bank. Therefore, the real skill is not to make historical materials to exploit and dazzle our practice, but to do first the correct analysis of the past. Once again, I find it useful to say that power is not power without control. As they say, power is a difficult thing. It's not possible for everyone to carry the power. Power gives you too much confidence, but overconfidence raises the possibility of making mistakes. It's the right way to consult to avoid mistakes. Unfortunately, today the government is drunk on power, unable to hear or listen to anyone. Then there's only one thing left to say: "Don't be proud, my king, there is a God greater than you. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit05spe0164par0021	Thank you. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who has asked on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the entire bill.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit05spe0165par0024	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group regarding State Secret Bill 287. I salute you all. In fact, the fact that the ruling party's desks are empty while the government bill is being discussed makes it look like it has no value, no meaning, just being ready for the vote. Of course, what did this bill have to do with anything? So there's a concept in the organisation of states, in precision, in many matters, the state secret in many matters, not that, but in Turkey, as a basic law of the Turkish Penal Code, as a fundamental law, the Penal Code was established in 2005-2006, and in all of these are state secrets, all of which are included, and there are in private laws; there are in the Law of Lawyers, there are in medicine, there are in different professional groups; in their special laws, it's not the state secret of the profession, but when you look at it as a fundamental law, when you look at it, it's the purpose -- it's very intimate, it's very intimate -- it's in the state secrets of the state. Now, do you know what the most interesting thing about these state secrets was? Sadrazam, queens, the king, kept a mute, a demon in the palace for public affairs talks. Notice that in the palace there were demons who were deaf and dumb, and the secrets of the state were entrusted to them. Now, I'd like to ask power, who will be your demons? You will choose your own demons. Obviously, this law predicts it, but there was no need for it. Society did not cry out, "The secrets of the state have come to light. " Citizens, labor, occupational organizations were not thrown into the square because state secrets were being violated. On the contrary, my friends, because everyone was resting, there was an apocalypse, the opposite. The Supreme Court was saying, "We are listening." The Supreme Court was saying, "We are listening." The MPs, ministers, they were all listening. I mean, there was no privacy, no government, no judgment, no execution, no life, no bureaucracy, no rest, no secrets. What you know most of all is that WikiLeaks documents just pop up. Like the Watergate scandal, you suddenly find your own tapes and videos on the social media network of developing technology. Now, I'm asking you, where did you need it from here? When the European Union wanted it, it had its acquish, I wondered if it was meant to be done for it, and it was presented in chapter 23: We'll get the state secrets out of it. Is God not the law of the state, my friends? Secrets all over the state, secret laws all around. Look, I'll open it up to you. Now, it's not in the acquish of the European Union. He had a way of working in the Ottomans. Now, I'd like to compare this way of working with ours. Now, we'll give this state secret authority to the Prime Minister. Yeah, you don't give the Prime Minister any authority, bro. He already wants the presidency. Tell them clearly: "Saltanet..." offer a law, relax at the root, and we'll relax too. Why? My brother wants to be king, and he doesn't live like a king. Look, I'll give you three criteria for becoming a king: there's a protocol for conduct within the palace. Our Prime Minister's behavior protocol is not the Prime Minister's protocol -- or the President's tomorrow. In fact, our President of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Lamb, even though he's been eating all those eggs, he's in one place and he's in the new presidential system, that's the president's work protocol. He hasn't said a word. Something interesting. For example, what would the sultans do? There should be a palace in this behavioral protocol, friends, the palace, the king's palace, the Topkapi Palace. Now, this palace business, I think -- in God's name, he's doing it soon -- a palace like the White House is being built at the Ataturk Forest Farm, so I've been named after it. Now, the king must read the Qur'an and worship for three hours a day. Then he has to read for two hours. They don't read the biggest flaw of our prime ministers, leaders. He's always putting the consultants in perspective. It's a misunderstanding when you put it in a summary. Six hours of discussing country issues, not dealing with it. Friends, six hours... because a man... There's doctors here, there's MPs, they know better in terms of health. Six hours of discussing country issues, not dealing with it. This is a very efficient watch. Four hours of travel, sport, prey. They're going to work out, they're going to travel. They're going to walk by a creek. They'll see what the hens have done to those streams. They'll listen to the wind, where the birds' chirps go. That Prime Minister will know you're alive in his own country. He'll rest for nine hours and give it to his family. It's the other way around. His family obeys the Prime Minister, Mexico goes to Mexico, Rio de Janeiro Rio de Janeiro... believe me, the worst damage to this politics is the house. They've already said this one, too. Now, we're looking at a reason written in this, which, believe me, for 30 years, is what this European Union is, what the basic rights are, what the contract is, if we don't deal with it, they're going to sell it to us. I do not know if you have any part in the drafts or not, but the freedom of access to documents under the European First Amendment, the right to public information... What's that got to do with it? It destroys the right to receive information, the secret of the state. Now, every blessed security officer will say, "I am the state. I am the state, babo, state, state." I shot him, I shot him for the government. I did it, I did it for the government. I stole it, I stole it for the government. I committed murder, I committed it for the government. If I did it, I did it for the country. If I did it, I did it for people. The judge can't supervise me, and the House can't. Such a bill. Friends, for God's sake, did we put the basic rights and freedoms contracts into the 90th article of the Constitution to fit in with the European Union? So the difference between our tribal state and being a modern state of law... is the rule that Mr. Pecta sund servanda... (Pacta sund servanda).....the loyalty of the covenant, the honor of the House itself.....shouldn't the House itself respect the contracts of the House? I do. Then why are we making such an effort to bring in these interesting, private, private bills? Now, here, I see, the Turkish Penal Code has an excessive amount of government secrets. You're coming -- I'm going to continue -- on the matter of the state's concepts of secrecy and secrecy: 50 years. There are 50 years of young lawmakers in this House, forgive me. Fifty years of state secrets? Kill a man, 20 years at a time, plus ten, thirty years. Thirty years in murder, ten years in secret, 50 years in state secret. Why? Why? Who are you protecting for 50 years, brother? What kind of protection is that? Do the law protect the murders? Do laws protect thefts? Does the law protect this treason? Can the law protect the sale of this country? Can the law protect torture? Can the law protect shameful crimes? Can laws protect non-political behavior, crimes to be committed? They are protected by the law; they are protected by the heart, protected by the conscience of the people, protected by the conscience of the people, protected by the conscience of the people, protected by the faith and protected by the composition of all of them. If that society, that public conscience, did not feel that they were inside, even if you passed 100,000 laws, it would be like the 15th Amendment of Canaan's Universe. This is the temporary 15th article of the Kenan Universe, my friends, and I speak to you from the bottom of my heart. You'll see the damage. Why would you? There are very clear statements here about secrecy. Secret documents and information... entering the cosmic room, over. What about the footage of Uludere's drones, the intelligence, the Parliament? There is no law; he has not come; he does not come, he opposes; he says, "I am not sending it to the parliament." He says, "It is secret." Didn't he say, the House Human Rights Commission? Forgive me, the President was here earlier. He said it was confidential. Didn't the Chief of Staff, the Ministry of National Defense, say that I can only answer to the special court? Look, guys, you've brought in a rule called public secrecy. God bless you. There was a public space incident on the headgear, and you brought it in, and you put the public space in the secret of the state. And that's your shame. What's a public space? Somebody come out and describe it to me, a member of the ruling party, a minister, tell me about the public space. School is a public domain. Should I count more? The park is a public area, the street is a public area, the boulevard is a public area, the coastline is a public area, the beach is a public area. Should I count it? Riversides, seasides, parking lots, buses, they're all public spaces. What does the secret of the state have to do with it? What's the point of having privacy all over life? Can a secret government be managed? What happened to democracy being transparency, openness, sophistication, public court? Where's this... this secrecy is trouble, my friends, trouble, trouble for those who cause it, like the guillotine law of Robespierre. Look, there was a very serious debate here at the European Union Commission, and they expressed their concerns, and they said, "Friends, Turkey is the most convicted in the European Court of Human Rights." It was always the people who burned down the village in the 90s and called it a state secret. In the European courts, Turkey has been convicted of thousands of cases, and why do you feel the need to bring in a law to protect those who committed those crimes? Can Turkey survive this? Now, there are very serious criticisms in the European Union, very justified criticisms. It's a law the European Union doesn't want, and one of the criticisms in a law that doesn't require it is to connect the secret of the state to a person -- to the prime minister -- that's not the right way. They don't always have majority power in this Parliament, they have coalitions, they can change hands all the time. It's a chest that's unpredictable tomorrow, and one day it's going to make a queen of power, and the next election, it's a citizen, and the next election, it's going to be a disgrace. This country has experienced examples of this, my friends. Now, when we look through all of this, I think that this bill, which is special to one, has very serious, dark reasons. What's a government? The state is an organization, and the government operates in its name. So the government is not the government, my friends. Since when will the secret of the government be the secret of the state? Government officials are government officers, such as MIT, foreign affairs, finances, defense. I mean, there's enough privacy in these areas already. What about the deep government, what about the Gladio, what about the contrastilla? Isn't there a lot of gangs in the state that you call "The Moon Light," "The Yellow Light," "What do you call it, all of the coup attempt?" We have committed a thousand murders, a thousand acts in the name of the state. Isn't that what they call a secret? Given all of this, I'm concerned about a point, is there a secret power and organization within the state, within the state that wants to kill the Prime Minister? You don't need that secret for that, fellas. For that reason, this law, these existing laws, is enough to expose it. Now, if there's a power within the government that wants to kill the Prime Minister, there's no way he can protect him with his intel, and there's no way he can travel with 500 guards. However, only if the law works, democracy works, justice works, Parliament operates can be protected. The Prime Minister must now know his friend and his enemy. It's all for me, all authority to give up on me... the plans of the funnel that are centralizing all authority with the Council of Duce. The era of dictatorships has ended, and Latin America has ended, and Turkey has ended. When watched, there is no state secret legislation. What is the state secret of the law? How many pashas have come here to the Susurity Council Research Commission, who didn't give you a statement saying it was a state secret? Well, aren't those pashas now arrested in the Ergenekon Silivri case? So there's no gap, the law is working. Then why is this needed? Friends, you will take the state secret from the control of the House, you will take it out of the Court's control, you will take its expenditure, you will take its action, and then -- of course the Prime Minister will not be in charge of everything -- you will hand it over to a bureaucrat, an undersecretary. This House shouldn't have a conscience, it's wrong. Now, those who spray the gas in Hopa are the secret of the death lists, including the exports from the army -- including the ages -- the JITEM, the missing weapon, the acid wells. It's in the OSCE, the Justice, the Finance, the Foreign Office, the Defense, the Big Economic Studies, the Republic's history, the Nazim, the Sheikh Saidin, Saidi Nursil Court, all of this -- unexplained -- which of the drones, the Patriots, the cosmic chambers, the NATO, the IMF, the energy tenders, the IMF, the IMF, the foreign property sale, the Sheikh Said's, the persecution of the opposition -- the Moonlight, the Yellow Girl, the Coven, the ICK, etc. This law is unconscionable. No, my friends, I'll tell you the joke of Popeye: He doesn't speak English, he's hungry, he's miserable, there's no place to sleep, there's no job. He said, "What should I do?" He said, "I'd better go to prison, and I'll lie there and I'll eat." Then he took the book of rules that should be obeyed in the United States: The insult to the President was six months... and he went to the President's house and started shouting,... I don't know, the President, the stupid President...... 2 officers came, arrested, brought him to court, and the judge made his decision: 15 years and six months. It was six months, what happened 15 years more? The judge said: "The American state secret is revealed in public, so it's an extra fifteen years." Don't make this country look like this, friends. I mean, seriously, it's a very unnecessary law, it doesn't suit us, we'll vote against our group, but think back to the joke of Popeye. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit05spe0166par0052	Thank you. Congressmans, it's 20 o'clock for the merger. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0166par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 123th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 287. The commission and the government are in place. On top of the whole bill, Aaron Riflesman, who asked for word on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0167par0007	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group over the entire State Secret Law Bill 287 rows. I salute your high council. Dear friends, with globalization, changes in political and social areas also change the understanding of classical governance. At this point today, a concept of transparent, accountable governance has begun to dominate, but openness in the administration never means that all information and documents should be shared with the public, nor should they. In matters such as trade secrets, national security, private life, secrecy should be essential. The principle of openness and transparency in the state administration cannot be considered unlimited access to information, as in other fundamental rights and freedoms in democratic regimes, where privacy is an exception. It would be inevitable for an unlimited sense of freedom to result in the violation of other individuals and, of course, society's rights. Therefore, regulations to balance individual and social interests are needed in order to prevent violations of rights. Maintaining balance in the use and limitation of rights and freedoms is of particular importance in terms of sustainable freedom and transparency under state administration. In the state administration, secrecy, which means to be closed to public and individual action, is at some point a way to preserve and protect information and documents within the scope of a secret. Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, it is imperative that the concept of secrecy in the public field be addressed with a new and modern understanding in terms of social control and increased participation. Freedom of information in democratic countries is considered an indispensable right in the context of the use of basic rights and freedoms. This right is also part of the constitutional rights in many democratic countries. Transparency was first expressed on the international level in the area of freedom of communication under Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of the United Nations. The right to access information within the framework of the 13th and 14th provisions of our Constitution, the basis for accessing information, the responsibilities of the individual and institutions, and the restrictions on access to knowledge are set by the Law on Information. One of the reasons for accessing information is information or documents regarding the state secret. In accordance with Article 16 of the Right to Information Act, it is said that the right to information and information on the state's security, foreign relations, national defence, and national security will be explicitly damaged and will be classified as a state secret. The second joke of the 26th article of the Constitution states that freedom of expression and distribution of thought can be limited for what purposes, while one of the objectives is that the information specified as a state secret cannot be explained as a state secret. Again, the fifth article of Article 28 explains that those who write or write about classified information of the state will be held accountable according to the laws of these crimes. In addition to these articles in the Constitution, various laws and regulatory procedures include provisions concerning state secrets and privacy, but there is not enough clarity in these provisions as to what procedure the state secrets will be determined and defined, which issues will be state secrets, which authorities and authorities are authorized to determine the state secret phenomenon. Therefore, as there have been difficulties in implementing Turkish Penal Code 5237's rulings on the issue, there have been serious threats and dangers in the security of the state, domestic and external political benefits, through the press and broadcasts. These underprivileged regulations regarding state secrets and privacy make it necessary for the matter to be regulated by a special law. In our country in the integration process of the European Union, providing a transparent, manageable, democratic governance has become an obligation to make a legal arrangement in order to clarify the concepts of secrecy and the state's secret in order to ensure that the interests of the state and the individual's access to information are not constrained and unnecessary. My dear friends, while the area of the state's secret is being regulated by a law, of course, the principle of the legal rights of the state and the protection of democratic institutions should not be ignored, while the citizens' right to information should not be restricted unnecessarily. In other words, the benefit of society and the benefit of the person must be balanced, and it must be intervened to the extent that a democratic society dictates, in the case of a single public wound being kept superior. Since there are no concepts of state secret and secrecy that can be easily defined, it should be sought to carry this quality in the state's secrecy, as long as the right to get information is narrowed down unnecessarily. Since the state's security, national presence, integrity, constitutional order, protection of internal and external interests, the concepts and interests mentioned as the basic duty of the individual and society require that some information and documents belonging to the state remain confidential. The 10th article of the European Convention on Human Rights, which contains the title of freedom of expression, has been made clear that freedom of expression can be restricted when necessary security and national benefits are required in a democratic society. On the other hand, another value in democratic order, which must also be maintained, is the right and freedom of citizens to have information, information about the state's operations, activities. Today's approach was to regulate the management's information assignment and the right of individuals to receive information with a law, and again the concept of state confidentiality was required to be defined, and such a work is being signed for, dear friends. In some countries the issue of state secrets is regulated by a separate law, associated with the benefits of the state and the right of citizens to gain information. In these laws, the qualifications of matters that may be a state secret can be assigned and given definitions at the time of need, and the authorities that can identify and appreciate these secrets are clearly shown by the law, thus preventing the citizens' right to information by making unnecessary matters a secret according to the managers' discretion. As one claims, it is bound to legal legislation by not restricting information, but by setting it in a specific order. The bill provided conditions for the issues that may be a secret, arrangements for who can harm state secrets and privacy. This arrangement will also contribute to the proper implementation of concepts related to the Turkish Penal Code and some other specific laws. My fellow lawmakers, the Bill of State Secrets has been drafted on the basis of the need for legal regulation necessary to meet the requirements of a democratic legal state. The bill has organised total public secrecy, and the privacy of real and private legal persons is not part of the bill. The bill was designed to ensure the necessary ease and transparency of the right to information, to end unnecessary privacy culture, and to regulate the field of state secrets and secrecy in a clear way. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers wish that the State Secret Law, which includes the state secret information, documents and records, should be determined, protected, and explained, be good for our country and our nation, and greet you with respect and respect and good evening.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0168par0031	Thank you. He asked for a personal word on the entire bill, Bulent Tezcan, Aydın MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0169par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, we're discussing the State Secret Code bill. The concept of the state's secret is a concept that has long been very closely concerned with the political literature, as well as with the legal literature. The concept of state secrets is highly discussed in both political practice and law practice of societies. For one thing, it was a very serious debate in terms of democratic culture. Our friends just told me, and the bill has motive. In the process of creating information and transparency, the concept of the state secret has been agreed to be narrowed down as much as possible. Dear friends, the secret of the state has also become a concept associated with bad experiences in our social life. In particular, with the concept of the state, it has often been used as a cover to prevent investigations of those who claim to have committed crimes on behalf of the state, to commit crimes on behalf of the state, and to cover the deep state. In this framework, especially in democratic states, the control of the state was used as a defence mechanism for understandings trying to establish deep state relations and unlawfulness, against the basis that the state can be supervised within the framework of the law. Dear friends, when we look from this frame, the concept of the secret of the state is inversely proportional to freedoms, an inversely proportional concept with the right to gain knowledge. If we think about two sides of a scale, when we put the concept of the state secret to one of the shrouds, when we put freedom and the right to gain knowledge, there's a relationship between freedom and freedom that works mutually and whichever one of us loses balance in favor of the other has a positive or negative relationship between the state secret and freedom. Dear friends, unfortunately, we as a society don't have a very good history at this point. For a long time, in our country, those responsible for this entire process, in the framework of deep government, Gladio, countererilla, criminal organizations and perpetrators, have tried to escape investigations using the concept of a state secret, using the weapon of a state secret. Of course, in this case, societies, on the one hand, have also felt the need to conceal certain information about the secret of the state, especially the defence, national security. In fact, when it comes to international relations, what I've just said is that the state does not want to be audited, the political authorities do not want to be audited, they do not want to solidify their authority, and the authoritarian power trends have always tried to expand the area of the state secret. Dear friends, now, with the next bill, the bill we're negotiating, there is no new definition. Our legislation has a variety of regulations for state secrets. There are various provisions in our legislation, which are passed by the Turkish Penal Code between Articles 326/339/The Penal Code, Article 47 and 125/th Articles of the Penal Code, Articles of Information, Constitution, State Officers' Law, and I can count -- the definition of the state secret, the concept of the state secret, and in this new arrangement, there are unfortunately no specific definitions of a clear state secret, which opens the way for transparency, as described in which it is described, will not cause any discussion. So, what's new with this bill? The new thing, friends, is that a state secret assessment board is being brought in. The State Secret Evaluation Board consists of the Minister of Interior, Minister of National Defence, Foreign Minister and Minister of Justice, as head of the Prime Minister; it consists of five ministers. Dear friends, look, we're actually facing two fundamental problems, serious risks. First of all, this State Secret Evaluation Board has the authority to decide which information and documents will be a state secret. It's in the judicial body according to our current system. In the cases currently going on in the courts, the judicial bodies are making an assessment of whether or not there is a crime to expose the secret of the state. In our arrangement, we give it to the State Secret Evaluation Board, headed by the Prime Minister. Dear friends, this means that political power will be able to appoint crime and punishment from now on. How? He will decide which information or document will be a state secret. In fact, it's a political power-related, direct, Prime Minister-based Council of State secret. When you say, "This information is a state secret." When you say, "This information is a public secret," the person who publishes it will be guilty, and the person who receives it will have committed the crime between Articles 326 and 339 of the Turkish Penal Code." This clearly violates Article 38 of the Constitution. It's a legislature for crime and punishment. We give the elements of the crime to a special group of five in this bill, to direct the truth, even in the execution, and we all know that in it, we only give it to the Prime Minister. Look, what are we going to see when we pass a bill like this? In fact, for 50 years, the Prime Minister will be able to declare any information or document he wants a secret. For example, they won't give this information to the courts when asked, even if the courts want it, they won't have it. Journalists won't be able to write this information, and if he does, he'll be guilty. Dear friends, let's think about this in the past, in the process of the sale of TUPRAS stocks to Off/E, the Prime Minister had made a bargain in hotel rooms, and tomorrow these negotiations will be accepted as a state secret and will be turned into a secret, and we will not be able to explain it, nor will journalists write it. For example, once again, the Prime Minister had an argument with a newspaper, a media boss, about a plant business, he said he'd buy our plant. The background of those talks could also be banned as a state secret. The talks on Galataport will also be banned from behind the scenes concerning the contract on the Bay of Kuşadasi. For example, information on the fact that the Globek Missile Shield is actually an American project, that there is no NATO base, could be banned within the scope of the state secret. For example, the Dolmabahçe meeting, the very important Dolmabahçe meeting, a journalist who learned what negotiations were made in the background, is a state secret. Since the Prime Minister has appointed it, it may not be explained. More than that, any issue related to the ministers' bribery, abuse of office, I'm very assertive with this bill, which may not be given to the court on the basis of a state secret. Dear friends, torture crimes are within the scope of this bill that can be covered by state secrets and hidden directly from the truth. Now, we're looking back, as Mr. Demirel said yesterday's laundry doesn't dry with the sun. Someone will come out tomorrow and ask you to pay for what you've done today. Apparently, Mr. Prime Minister is in a hurry to put all the information into a state secret suit because he's afraid someone will ask for it tomorrow. The passing of this bill is not the law of creating the deepest state in Turkey, but of creating the deepest state. That's why we're against the bill. Thank you, everyone.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0170par0048	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc has asked for a word.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0171par0051	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all, and I bid you all good evening. On behalf of their group on the State Secret Bill 287 rows, our dear friends spoke, and one of our dear friends spoke on behalf of himself. I thank all my friends who give speeches. Because of their criticism and their views, they've explained their views on the bill, and I'd also like to thank you. The bill that we discussed last period and during this period remains important because in many places in our legislation, the concept of the state's secret is passed, but because of this concept, there is no transparency and no description and elements can be explained. Thus, this bill, born of a need, has been brought forward. As it is known, one of the criteria for today's democratic state of law is the transparent state principle. This principle also includes the right of a citizen to learn about state activities. Freedom of access to information is considered an important and even necessary means of transparency and participation in modern democracies. Modern democracies have been replaced by long-dominated secrecy under government administration. In terms of public control and increased participation, it is imperative that the concept of the secret in the public field be addressed with a new and modern understanding. The right to information from the needs of democracy and the rule of law plays an important role in opening public control, providing transparency, as well as in raising public confidence in the state to higher levels. With this right being used, both public control of the state is getting easier and the democratic character of the state is getting stronger. As you know, the second article of Article 26 of the Constitution of 1982 states that freedom of expression and spread of thought can be limited for what purposes, while one of the objectives is that the information specified as a state secret is not explained as a state secret. Again, the Fifth Amendment to our Constitution, where the freedom of the press is held, explains that those who write or write about classified documents of the state will be held accountable under the laws of these crimes. The Right to Information Act, dated October 9, 2003 and 4982, is an important step in Turkey's integration process on the road to the European Union, and one of the limits of its right to information has been adopted as a state secret. Since there are no concepts of state secret and secrecy that can be easily defined, the limits of the right to information are narrowed if it is expanded unnecessarily, its access to the purpose of this law depends on the disorganized and inadequate state secret of our legislation to clarify the concept. While various laws and regulatory procedures include provisions concerning the state secret and secrecy of the state, we see that the provisions are considered a secret, as a result of the lack of clear definition of the concepts of the state and the concepts of information that need to remain secret, not defined, not defined by the method of determination, and as a result of the lack of the administration's discretion, even the simplest information in the public field is considered a secret. The lack of regulations regarding the concept of state secrets and the need to define which methods of information and documents and by which authorities will be placed in the category of secret documents or state secrets, and the lack of regulations regarding state secrets and secrecy, makes it necessary to regulate the fundamentals of the matter with a specific law, such as today. Dear lawmakers, it is important for society to protect the state's security, national presence, integrity, constitutional order, domestic and external interests. The concepts and interests mentioned require that some government information and documents remain confidential. While the legal rights of the state and the protection of democratic institutions are not ignored, the right to public information should not be constrained unnecessarily. The bill states that the knowledge of the state's secret by unauthorized persons could not violate the rule of law and the requirements of democratic society by describing it in the form of classified documents, information or records that could harm the state's international relations or national security. The State Secret Evaluation Board has been established to determine which information, document or registration is a state secret; provisions related to the process of protecting information, document or registration as a state secret are included. A scientific discovery with the bill can be protected as a state secret in the event that a property of national security is important. This information, documents or records that have not been given to the courts, may not be given by the council in the case of the request of information, document or registration under the state secret, as a state secret by losing this property as a state secret. One of the key regulations of the bill is the time when state secrets will be subject. As an epiphany of the debate to ensure transparency and end the culture of secrecy, there is a sentence that will not be protected as a state secret after 50 years of the Council's decision. Before the end of this period, it is concluded by the Council that information has lost the quality of a state secret, which has been terminated and removed as part of a state secret. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in addition to this information, I would like to remind you that the concept of state secret is written in many places in our legislation. The recipe for the state secret we've designed has been almost exactly taken from Article 47 of the Law on Punishment. Article 47 of the Penal Code, Article 47 of the Penal Code, cannot be kept secret from the court as a state secret. This first sentence is being removed. As a recipe, information that could damage the state's foreign relations, national defence, and national security could pose a danger to its constitutional order and external relations is considered a state secret. It was called a state secret. The first sentence of Article 47 has been removed. When we look at Law 657, there is a concept of state secret in the Law of State Officers. It is known that crimes have been committed against state secrets in chapter 7 of the same law, entitled the release of the secret of the mission, titled Article 258, starting in Article 26 of our Constitution. Article 326/Security of the state, Article 327/The charge of providing information on the security of the state/state, Article 329/The article 336/Secretive Article 336/Secrets the information that should be kept confidential for the security of the state or for its internal or external political benefits. The Article 330/Secrets the information that needs to be kept secret. In the same way, the Right to Information Act 4982 is intended to be considered a state secret of matters that could harm the state's safety, external relations, national defence, if the information or documents of the state's secret are disclosed in Article 16. No statement can be made by those who are in closed session and those who have the right to be in closed session during the closed session in Article 70, which organises closed sessions of the Turkish National Assembly. These are kept secret by the state, and there is also the judgment. We have countries to give examples of state secrets. In England, the concept of the state secret was edited by the Official Secrets Act of 1911. There is also a sentence in Belgium, in Bulgaria, in the Constitution of Greece; in Italy is Law 241; in Law 801 there are regulations similar to us; in France there are these issues concerning access to administrative documents, and in other countries there are. In our Penal Code No. 1412, the 88th article includes the same issues within the Vesikas. In Article 49 of the same Law, it is also estimated that even after the government has withdrawn from office, they will not be able to be heard as witnesses without the permission of the head of the office, where the secret belongs. Congressmans, I'd like to answer a few questions from my friends' speeches and the information I've received about the meeting that occurred earlier on the Commission, especially from our friends in opposition. Perhaps you can repeat these in the question section, but in particular in this speech, as my friend, who just spoke, has expressed, perhaps as many of our friends in common, the president of our prime minister has been given a mandate to the board of justice, foreign affairs, internal affairs and public defence ministers. This is the Council's authority to decide on the state secrets. The decision on whether an information and document is a state secret is left to a board of political authority, where the Council is left with the state secret. When you say this information, it will be a crime to explain it, so we are authorising the authority to define the verb in crime. It is called, this is the argument. Dear friends, there really is a need for a committee to determine a state secret, and if we have to look at this from the point of separation of forces, the authority to determine whether or not a document will be a state secret is undoubtedly in the power to execute it. It is not possible at the point of these men's powers to be granted this authority because its fundamental duty is to make law, but its primary duty is to resolve conflicts. In the current application, information and documents are given by the executive body of the government's secret. However, since there is no clarity as to who will do this description, each public institution and organisation is able to describe it by its own discretion. This description is often used as a pleasure, and as a result, we find a structure where everything is a state secret. The documents we have show that even the officer who has prepared a document in the legislation that has been adopted since the past can give him the quality of secrecy. In order to prevent each public institution and its organisation from making information and documents a state secret, this authority was given to the Prime Minister's presidency, consisting of Justice, Internal Affairs, Foreign Affairs and National Defence ministers. In this way, it is intended to prevent arbitraryness and standardize state secrets. On the other hand, if a discrepancy arises in describing an information, document or registration as the state's secret, it will be resolved by the judicial authorities, as the administration's way of dealing with all actions and procedures is open in accordance with the Article 125 of the Constitution. Again, will some friends of ours be covering some of the secrets of power by the State Secret Board? Is this the purpose of which the five were given to the council? I've just explained the basis for the creation of such a board. The concept of the state secret, defined in the third article of our design, has thus far come to be vague. If such a board is not formed, the bill will not be able to carry out its intended goals in order to ensure transparency, given the definition of a state secret. Because the state secret definition, which contains very general statements, in practice, is capable of allowing public institutions and institutions to accept any document as a state secret. Therefore, the bill was given not only to the definition of state secrets but also to the highest-level bureaucrats of the ministries, who are directly linked to the concept of state secrets. Thus, at the point of determining the secret of the state, both pleasure will be prevented and a standard on this issue will be provided. On the other hand, since the Council is an administrative structure, there is no hesitation that all procedures and actions are under judicial supervision. Dear friends, I would like to state that the provisions that will meet these and such questions are part of our bill. In this regard, we will also consider them, essentially, as long as our friends have their motions when they're passed on. And in a few minutes, I'd like to share with you what I witnessed as the bill was discussed. A few moments ago, unfortunately, during the last vote, it turned into an argument, even a fight. I've followed the last ten or twelve articles, and I know our friends have made motions on everything. In fact, I know that four of these motions were given four times in addition to just one word being replaced. We've all seen roll call every ten minutes. The provisions of the Civil Law shall be freely used. Yes, it is my right, and I will certainly use it when you use it. If you say so, neither can our friends who want to criticize it. The law does not protect abuse of a right. Therefore, the rights must be used properly and properly. But each vote has revealed that most of our friends are here, so we see here that the ruling group has prepared enough meetings with the number of members approaching 200. Nevertheless, my friends from the opposition parliamentary party say that they must be present every time they fail. In return, it is possible to say: If this law is very dangerous, very wrong, and is capable of causing major errors in Turkey, you may have to go against it with full staff. For him, it must have been abandoned to block Parliament by keeping 20 people here at a party at all times. When our other parties vote, there should be a lot more opposition MPs than 30 or 40, but that's the way it goes. If you say that, we're not in the position to criticize each other.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0172par0076	Then, if this law is so important, there are only 30 members of the ruling party group.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0171par0077	There are now 30 people, 200 people will come in when you invite them.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0172par0078	They don't listen to you, so it's not a big deal.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0171par0079	We've had ten roll calls, and we've seen it 10 times.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0173par0080	They don't even need to listen to this law, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0172par0081	So you're the opposition party here...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0171par0082	Okay, you're right.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0172par0083	...you're in no position to appreciate how much of a member of the family will be.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0171par0084	Sir, I don't appreciate it, I say the case.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0172par0085	According to the Civil Code and the Constitution, as long as it takes.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0171par0086	You know very well, you've been acting as Group President for years. That's what I'm saying...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0172par0087	If you say so, it's very important...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0171par0088	I mean, there must be so many people in there. If you say, "You have to look at yourself first."
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0172par0090	You'll take care of yourself first.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0171par0091	Okay, thank you. I'm taking care of myself.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0172par0092	You look at yourself, you don't see it. You need glasses to even see what you've come up with in terrorism.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0171par0093	Despite all that, the power in this Parliament is obliged to run Parliament, to be present for it, to stand up against the motions, to speak his word, to determine its attitude, its behavior...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0172par0094	I mean, there were so many of them, and they had guns.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0171par0095	...but a member of parliament can never stand on the stand and say to the MPs, "Woe be to you! He'll do it wrong if he says it. You may not like it, you may criticize it, but you have no right to say, "Woe be to you!" Article 83 of the Constitution states that the members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are not responsible for their votes and their words during the work. I do not call upon you to raise your hand, to say yes, to say no.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0174par0096	We're going to eat a lot of curses there, aren't we, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0171par0097	Please... please... the Civil Code shows how to talk. You're going to speak clean language, you're going to do your review, you're going to go to the Supreme Court, or you're going to continue your criticism.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0174par0098	Do you know what you're being told? Your friends are swearing unspeakablely.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0171par0099	Mr. President, I didn't mean to cause an argument. If the ruling group wants to draft the bill, they'll hold the vote, but blocking the House with 20 people, 10 people, one person, three people has not been seen in our history.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0175par0100	You did very well.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0176par0101	It's in your history. It's in the fair order you're defending.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0171par0102	And it didn't occur to any of the MPs to say, "Woe be to the MPs!" [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I condemn you. You can't say to any MP, "Woe be to you!"
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0177par0106	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0178par0107	Mr. President, Mr. Arinc has made statements on how the opposition should do it, has criticised 20 people for what the opposition should be. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement as the main opposition party.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0177par0108	I'll give you your position, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0178par0109	Mr. President, there's been a disturbance, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0179par0110	We've got a band, too. This isn't a pick-me-up stand.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0177par0111	Now, if it's not teasing, it's not teasing, it's an explanation, Deputy Director of the Group. I'll give you your position.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0179par0113	He is not the Minister of the AKP, he is the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Turkey. It's not a place for opposition. If there's a problem with the group here, if the group wants to be vice president, they'll go sit there.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0180par0114	I did that years ago.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0179par0115	You can't do well, maybe you did better.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0180par0116	For years, I've been acting as group president.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0179par0117	Deputy Prime Minister is better for you, perhaps.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0180par0118	I've also been Speaker, and you're still there, and I haven't stayed in the same place as you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0181par0119	Here you go, Mr. Slim. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0182par0122	Why are you interfering with the group's business? What's your involvement in the group's business? Are you running the band?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0183par0123	Mr. Arinc, is that appropriate? You're talking to the Deputy Group President of a party.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0181par0124	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0183par0125	That's the lawmakers in the back, and you're disrespecting the will. Why are you doing this?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0181par0126	Mr. Korkmaz, please...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0184par0127	I'm not being disrespectful.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0185par0128	You're the one who's disrespecting me.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0186par0129	You're speaking to the Deputy Director of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0185par0130	With your sharp tongue, you're always like... There is nothing but corruption in your speech.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0187par0131	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0186par0132	After that, what a shame! You criticize his word! You're talking to the nationalist movement party.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0187par0133	Mr. Korkmaz, please...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0188par0136	Mr. Arinc, you say you've blocked the House with 20 men. I explained the documents here in those eight years of uninterrupted educational debates when you were the Welfare Party MP. If I'd known you were coming here, I'd have shown you those documents again. Everyone knows exactly how you did it. You, of course, are someone who speaks differently when you're in opposition, when you're in power. You'll be the so-called AKP's conscience, but you're not at all, I'm sorry. As someone who's known you for at least ten years, I know very well that you're not like that, not like what those columnists wrote.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0189par0138	He tells her, tells her that he made the mistake of his life.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0188par0139	You trashed this House with those 45 MPs in those days, remember? You've threatened people there, and Turkey knows what you're saying there. Well, my dear friends, you've made a 13-point law the basic law. If you're so conscientious, why don't you talk to him? When I called Mr. Canicli to make sure he didn't get dirty, I said, if I didn't sign it now -- we're doing it as a group recommendation, he'll have ten minutes. Why are you talking about the number of motions that you have not had a conscience as the party's brother, as an experienced politician?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0190par0142	That's the basic law.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0191par0143	He reads the law book from behind, from behind.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0188par0144	Mr. Arinc, let me tell you something else: You have 330 MPs. We've got 138, we've got enough meetings, we've got 164, we've got 20. You bang 200 people here, I want CHP's Deputy Leader of the Group to roll-call. When the President says, "There's an environment." He says, "There's no number, there's no waste of time." Don't you know that? Your friends will stand outside, so when we invite them here, when we ask for a roll call? It's a waste of time. You keep 200 people out there in the living room instead of doing a job follow-up, it'll take us three seconds. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Arinc, we know this Parliament as well as you do. I'm sorry. If you are going to be a brother, after twenty years, twenty-five years, after becoming a deputy minister, if you are going to be a brother to this parliament, you will be a brother to CHP, you will be a brother to BDP, you will be an MP.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0192par0149	Not us, not us! Oh, my God! You sit up with your brother!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0193par0150	Thank you, Your Grace.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0188par0151	Don't be such a fake big brother!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0193par0152	Mr. Slim, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0188par0153	You'll bring the 13-point law as the basic law, you'll keep the MPs out, you'll blame me when I ask you not to, you won't! They're gonna come running! We're gonna ask you to roll call, and you're gonna come in.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0193par0154	Mr. Slim, please...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0194par0155	Don't shout, don't scream!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0193par0156	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0195par0158	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0193par0159	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0195par0160	Mr. Arinc's statements of opposition...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0193par0161	Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I promise you in two minutes.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0195par0165	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers -- of course, a minister of the Republic of Turkey's government -- is the embodiment of a policy with a sharp language that makes him a deputy leader of the AKP Group and then teaches the National Party of Action or opposition. So at this point that we're here today, whatever speech you're having, you're constantly defaming opposition, nationalism, in the midst of persecution and corruption.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0196par0166	No one's arguing about nationalism. What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0197par0167	It's a pain.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0195par0168	Look, you stood up here and insulted the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and you challenged Parliament by saying, "No one will ever again dare bring that Shike Law to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey." What happened? That law came to the House, but you didn't have the courage to come here, you didn't have the courage.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0198par0170	You voted for him.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0195par0171	That's why everyone should know their place when they're here defaming the lawmakers, the opposition. You're the one who went out and told me about the fair order and then went on TV and said, "Well, I don't understand the fair order, so I'll tell you." Now, as far as the Civil Code and Constitution are concerned, the number of meetings and decisions that are sufficient, most of the relevant decisions are defined, while the opposition is expressing its will and desires, why are you asking for 20 people, sir? Why do you have 30 people...? Did you count them? You didn't count. So, why are 25 people watching you, not taking you seriously, huh? Twenty-five people were watching, listening. Earlier, 15 people listened to Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0199par0172	So they don't care about the help.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0195par0173	Therefore, the Minister of the Republic of Turkey must know that he is the minister of this republic, this is not the party state, this is not the Baas regime, but your statements... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If the opposition group has something to say, the group will say it, and you can't give instructions to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as the executive body there.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0200par0177	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0201par0178	My master says, says, I've made the mistake of my life. Is there an easier way out than this? He makes the mistake of his life.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0202par0179	Mr. President, it's too short...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0200par0180	Here, Mr. Kaplan, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0202par0182	Dear friends, really, this unhealthy process of living is making us all nervous, like a string of nerves, because we have friends who leave at four or five in the morning. You know, the Constitutional Compromise Commission discussed the first fundamental rights clauses. It is also in the Constitution, and in the European Convention on Human Rights, it is also forbidden. It's really become a chore, Parliamentary work. I mean, people are flesh and blood; there's paramedics here, there's doctors, if you want to ask. The members of the council alone have a discipline, not to work so much in the morning, there are people in health, there are people in need of treatment, there are people whose family has special problems, and it's really unhealthy, but when we left here last night, four or five staff members told me, isn't this work a chore? With this way of working, with this approach, if this is how we're going to get Congress to work, I was at home at two, so I'm sorry, and we, uh...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0203par0186	You're bringing in two pages of motive.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0202par0187	We've given you the motions, and we know the language that you'll understand, and we can lock it if we want, and we can get you to play rap rap rap with the motions of the House.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0204par0188	Lock it, lock it, lock it.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0202par0189	Look, let me be clear, you've done these opposition tactics before us, which is of no use. I'm just suggesting that this isn't the right way, and all four parties need to work on a gentlemanly agreement. That's not the right approach. We need to create the environment of healthy work. I don't know, with the Speaker of Parliament... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He needs to reassess that. I want to give this warning. I think we'd have a lot to discuss otherwise.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0205par0194	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0206par0198	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, first it is wise to point out that if, of course, the number of meetings or decisions are required, then the opposition is in line with the Civil Charter, which means that the opposition is using opportunities from the Civil Law. In that sense, of course, there's no way it can be judged that way. All we're saying is that friends often go out and work until morning, and we have to stay here until morning, and they say, "They see or express our group as responsible." That's not true. Look, we're trying to make it to July 1st. We've expressed that in different places. He's really tired, Congress. It's been a very busy period of work this semester. We're trying to make it to July 1st. A calendar has been made. Our government has priorities, it's been reported. We're trying to finish them, legalize them. In doing so, of course, it's the Civil Code, but as a result, every request for a roll call here, I'm saying it in every Civil Charter -- I'm saying it in a nail -- is the process of delaying, of course. We have a target, too, so there's a mission, and it needs to be done. Of course, the opposition might say: I have a right, and so do I. We can't call it anything, but the outcome of such a policy needs to be known as long-term work. So I'd like to point out that there's going to be a procedure like this, and we're going to be responsible for being late or working late. These contradictions, it's useful to say, but of course he can use them, it's entirely his own opinion of the opposition, we can't call him anything. And Mr. Muharrem just told me about the job hunt. You have to tell us what our friend is doing. So, yeah, my friends are job-watching... the mayors are here, the mayors are here, they're coming, they're tracking their provinces, they're tracking their counties. But let's know if there's anything concrete, otherwise, of course, they're following people's work.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0207par0204	Thank you, Mr. Canicli. [[Continue]] Mustafa Kemal Şerbetcioğlu has asked on behalf of the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Sherbetchioğlu.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0208par0213	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit06spe0207par0215	Congressmans, please... [[Noises]] I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0207par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 123th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 287. The commission and the government are in place. In turn, Mustafa Kemal Sherbetcioğlu has asked for a statement on behalf of him.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0209par0006	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a personal pledge on the State Secret Bill of 287 rows. In today's administration, transparency is essential, privacy is the exception. In order to increase public control and participation, the concept of public opinion has become mandatory with modern understanding. Freedom of information in democratic countries is an indispensable right to use basic rights and freedoms. This right is among the constitutional rights of many democratic countries. Transparency, for the first time on the international level, was expressed in the 19th article of the Universal Declaration of the United Nations, in the area of freedom of communication. In the second joke of Article 26 of the Constitution, the government's secret was expressed as one of the reasons for limiting freedom of expression and distribution of thought. Again, in Article 5 of Article 28, it has been explained that all who write or write about classified information of the state, print and print, and give it to others will be held accountable under the laws of these crimes. Apart from these articles in the Constitution, there is no explanation for which authorities and authorities are in charge of determining the state secret, the state secret, and the state secret. As there are difficulties in implementing Turkish Penal Code No. 5237's provisions on the issue, the media and publishing tools and the publications of the state's secret issues pose serious dangers to the security of the state. Such inadequate regulations and difficulties in implementation have made it necessary for the matter to be regulated by a special law. In addition, it is imperative that the government and its citizens' interests be made clear to the concept of the state secret, in order to ensure that the individual has the right to information. While the state secret is being arranged by law, it is thought that the benefit of a person and the benefit of a community should be balanced, that the concept of a state secret is not something that can be easily defined, but that the limits of the right of knowledge, if it is expanded unnecessarily, should be covered by the conditions in which the benefits of society should be preferred. The primary benefit for society is protecting state security, national presence, integrity, constitutional order, domestic and external interests. In matters mentioned, certain government information and documents must be kept confidential. Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which contains the title "freedom of expression," states that freedom of expression can be restricted when it requires national security and benefits in a democratic society. In some countries, the issue of state secrets -- as in Spain's example -- is regulated by a separate law, associated with the benefits of the state and the right of citizens to gain information. In these laws, the concept of the secret of the state is defined, and the authorities who will identify and appreciate these secrets are clearly shown by the law, thus preventing the right of the citizen's knowledge from being restricted by allowing the executives to act arbitraryly and make non-secret matters a secret. The bill, which aims to reconcile the two interests mentioned above, is based on two separate concepts in the form of "information and documents that are a state secret" and "other classified information and documents." The secret of the state was considered to be information and documents that would harm the state's foreign relations, national defence and national sovereignty, which could pose a danger to constitutional order and external relations, and should remain classified as a quality. Other classified information and documents have been identified as information and documents concerning the country's economic interests, intelligence, military services, administrative investigations and prosecution, as well as that of the activities of the authorities, and the provisions concerning these classified information and documents are agreed to be carried out in their relevant laws. Secrets in the bill are related to state-owned secrecy, and the privacy of real people and private legal persons is outside the scope of this bill. The bill organises the public privacy area. The bill included state secrets and secrecy in economic areas, along with domestic and external security, military and political areas. In the case of conditions, some state-owned economic information and documents can also be described in terms of state secrets or privacy. The bill was designed to ensure the necessary ease and transparency regarding the right to information, to end the unnecessary culture of secrecy, and to regulate the field of state secrets and secrecy in a clear way. I wish you all the best in the bill.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0210par0025	Thank you. There is a motion on the entire bill according to Article 72 of the Civil Code, which I make read: The Constitution of Bill 287, which is currently in session, is 72. In accordance with the clause, we propose and propose that the negotiations continue. Muharrem İnce Ali Riza Özturk Hasan Ören Bulent Tezcan Free Ali İhsan Kokturk To better understand the subject. III-Y O K L A M A
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0211par0037	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0210par0038	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request, and I'll carry it out. Mr. Eyütük, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Kükturk, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Küren, Mr. Firat, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Öner, Mr. Özgüm, Mr. Gök, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Dibek. Yeah, I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. There will now be a 20-minute question-and-answer procedure. Mr. Türkoglu, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Faruk, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yılmaz, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Vural and Mr. Korkmaz who entered the system for the question. Mr. Turkoglu, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0212par0052	Mr. Secretary, thank you for the tension just now! Perhaps, when you saw the small number of members of your listening party, you chose the way to call them here, making them nervous, and you succeeded, and the number has gone up a lot. Now, a search has been made at the cosmic office as part of an assassination case against your witness, which means there have been calls made at the Expedition Office. The leaders of your party said, "Would the government be a secret?" As these calls were being made. Now the government has a secret, how do you evaluate it? The definition of the state secret is defined in the second sentence of the CMK Article 47, while the constitutional order is mentioned, but the new definition is that there are no dangerous documents against constitutional order. What's the reason you're narrowing it down? In addition, you said the administrative judicial path was clear in your speech, but is it true that those who appeal to the executive case against the decisions of this Council, that this is the secret of the state, that I cannot give it to them? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0213par0056	Thank you. Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0214par0058	Mr. President, through you, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary what happened to the investigation into the Turkish Armed Forces' cosmic chamber, which led to an assassination attempt on your own at Çukurambar? I'm curious about the outcome of this investigation. My second question is: You have stated that the MPs are replaced by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, that these MPs must be released without a name, and that they will be placed in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Again, Mr. Prime Minister is in favor of the arrest of Ilker Basbug. We've been advocating trial without arrest all along. He said. Mr. Secretary, what actions do you make, what initiatives do you make for these arrested MPs to take part in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0213par0060	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0215par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, if this bill becomes legal, will the information made by Mr. Prime Minister in Dolmabahçe for the Buyukanit-Erdoğan meeting be hidden for 50 years as part of the state secret? Two: Will information on talks with PKK-MIT representatives in Oslo be taken from the public in the same scope? Will the knowledge that soldiers and police serving in the southeast are agreed to be tried as war criminals be removed from the sainted Turkish nation, which is part of the protocols in the ACK operations on the talks? Are these some of the main goals in this law? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0216par0066	Thank you. Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0217par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. The more secrets there are between two people, the more illegal, the more dark business there is. And no matter how many state secrets there are in a state, no matter how wide open it is, the number of dark jobs in that state is going to increase. So I think this law is risky for the future of the state, for the people of Turkey's human rights. Do you intend to withdraw this law? Another question: In most cases during February 28th, secrets are known to remain closed. Will there be any investigation into Tansu Ciller, Prime Minister of the period? Do I have that kind of hearing? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0218par0072	Thank you. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0219par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I was in Tripoli yesterday. We had eight martyrs in our country, and one martyr in Tripoli, the son of my dear friend and the child I raised in my hand, as did our other martyrs. First of all, our people are screaming, they want this to end, and we're saying that the solution to this is, as Mr. Kilicdaroglu said, in the House once again. One of the main goals of our state is to facilitate the safety of our citizens and our society and their jobs, but when we look at this, we are forced by the Judges and Prosecutors' Board to close the courts in our country, as many of our districts have been closed down in Tripoli, as many of our 18 counties have been closed down, and our citizens are forced to conduct further in our counties in Tripoli, which have a disorganized area. At the point where they're being remedied, there's a...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0220par0078	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0221par0080	Thank you, Mayor. Why is a state secret law in the Turkish Penal Code needed? Question 2: Can the state's secret be referred to in the way of judicial action against a transaction or document? Question 3: Are there state secrets laws in European Union countries? If so, is the scope larger or narrower than the bill? Question 4: Is there a European Union member country in which the State Secret Control Board needs to be structured and has powers and control mechanisms? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0222par0086	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0223par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you have recently made such a statement as Abdullah Ocalan can be put under house arrest if the guns cease. As a lawyer, I'd like to ask you where you got the authority to say such a thing. What do you say when you lose a child, a man who's been sentenced to a life sentence of aggravated imprisonment 13 years from now, that this person should come out? I wish you'd take a look at this. Also, is the Oslo negotiation process a state secret? Did you include this in government secrets? Why don't you go public with the interviews there? That's what I want to ask you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0224par0092	Thank you. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0225par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is the Uludere, Uludere, cosmic room search, talks with other countries within the scope of prevention of terrorism, major tenders, contacts in foreign policy, the state secret when this law comes out? The second question is: The State Secret Act consists of thirteen articles, including the State Secret Law (Security) and ▪Security (Security), and this bill is discussed as the basic law. Do you agree with your views on the fundamental law when you were in opposition in 2001, and do you swallow it? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0226par0098	Thank you. Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0227par0100	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, according to Article 125 of the CMC, documents containing the phenomenon of the crime cannot be kept secret from the court as a state secret. You cannot bring the provision of the CMC to court under the provision of the 8th Article of the bill, which is the state secret of the courts. So as long as the Prime Minister doesn't want it, the criminal documents won't be presented to the court. With this arrangement, do you provide protection for crimes committed during the reign of the Justice and Development Party that we left behind, or in your new era, are you creating a cover for the crimes committed during the next period?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0226par0102	Thank you. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0228par0104	Thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to know in the interim article that says: "The information that has been processed and must be reprocessed, the document, the attributes mentioned in Article 3 of the Article 3 of the Court shall be made a state secret to those who possess the qualities specified by the Court." I mean, where has this transaction been conducted so far? In this case, is it also guaranteed that some information and documents that are in the process of the trial will be made a state secret by the Council? So, what does this process involve? Who will process the information that needs to be reprocessed? Why would I need it? Who's going to apply for it? I'd appreciate it if the government would tell me about this.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0226par0106	Thank you. Last question, Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0229par0108	I'd like to ask the Minister: Mr. Arinc, I didn't swear to anyone; if I did, I'd tell Erbakan Hodja, and I didn't even tell him. I don't swear to the Prime Minister. I made the mistake of my life twenty-four hours later, not too much, after what you said. An experienced politician like me shouldn't have done such a thing. You said. My question is, what was the mistake of your life? Did you make up for that mistake? If you did, how did you do it?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0230par0109	Don't forget you're running for AK PARTY!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0229par0110	What advice do you give to young politicians who are quick to make such a mistake? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0231par0112	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0232par0114	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, I'd like to explain something. I've just said on behalf of the government that there have been possible and permitted obstructions, which have led to debates as we speak on the bill. Part of the job is that the opposition does it, the government complains. I don't know about them, but when I said it, I said, "It's inappropriate to call the MPs who think differently and vote differently because of their votes and their promises. It's inappropriate, it's wrong." That's what I wanted to say. So two of our friends took the word, and instead of responding to this promise -- I mean, he's handsome, he's inappropriate -- they expressed matters about me. I know that not every two of my friends have a very good opinion of me, and it doesn't necessarily have to be, but please, they have to be careful of their manners, to speak up for their rights. I may have done wrong, but not everyone shares that mistake. When you're told, "Woe to you!" power is not only sad, but also the opposition lawmakers should be sad. We can think differently, we can move differently. This is an insult to the Parliament in person of all lawmakers. Our friend made this statement, lost his temper, interrupted, tried to silence him, but it was not taken back. I just wanted to express it. Now we're in the questions section, and in the questions section...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0233par0117	We've had a thousand curses in there, Mr. Secretary, and you didn't say them.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0232par0118	I've been asked more about things that aren't relevant, about myself, about my time, and I'll try to answer as much as I can. I'll start at the end, Nevzat Don't Be Afraid, my friend tells me what he hears from the ear. One of them is at the Bursa county convention or at the county convention. I didn't swear, and if I did, I'd tell Erbakan, and I didn't even tell him. This is a subject within an hour and a half of conversation. Then I made the mistake of my life. The word is not there, but elsewhere, you follow wrongly. What I call the error of my life, Mr. Oktay Vural, has said very well, in connection with the fraud case, after being vetoed by Mr. President, I thought the grounds of Mr. President could be shared by Parliament. With a little bit of courage, I said, "No member of parliament will ever have it." How was I supposed to know that Mr. Oktay Vural, the AK PARTY, the MHP, the CHP, and the parties other than BDP would have this? I have indeed made a great mistake, so let this be a lesson to me, as Laz said, and let this bond be a lesson to me.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0234par0121	You didn't even make it to the council. You didn't even have the courage to come to the council.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0232par0122	Yeah, well, not that I didn't agree to the mistake of my life... but that I never shared with you about the fix -- which is not the bill, which I would have done in the Council of Ministers if it were to come as a bill -- and you all signed it. I thought wrong, you did the right thing. Everyone gets their share of what we're going through.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0235par0123	Why didn't you speak up on the stand, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0232par0124	We don't talk mutually. I'll give you the answer, and then you can think about it.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0235par0125	I'm just curious.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0232par0126	Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, I know your name correctly, don't I? You said that Abdullah Ocalan could be put under house arrest. I did not say so naked. I explained that yesterday. Don't smile, ma'am, it's in the records. The question I was asked was, "Mr. Leyla Zana says Abdullah Ocalan can also be put under house arrest, or should be taken into custody, and what do you think about it?" These are individual demands. It's been done in the past, it's not valid. First the organization will lay down arms, end their actions, and then everything can speak. I have made a sentence like this. I've made the right sentence, and your president shared it, and he said, "Why not if four parties allied?" You don't think so, do you, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0236par0128	I don't think so if our president tells me so, yes.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0232par0129	Could be, sir. So I tried to say the same thing, that if it was possible for the organisation to drop arms, to end terrorism in Turkey, if it could end its actions, then who would be hurt if everyone's demands were spoken in a peaceful environment and dialogue?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0237par0131	What do you mean?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0232par0132	You may not like it, but I answer it, I answer the lady's question, so please make yourself comfortable. The Oslo negotiations process...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0237par0134	These are not issues to be addressed in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. It's been ruled in the name of the nation. At the tables, I can't...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0232par0135	Perhaps, sir, I don't address you, I address Madam.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0237par0136	Will, will.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0238par0137	Mr. Vural, please...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0237par0138	Even a matter like this can be discussed is a joke.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0238par0139	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Vural, please...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0237par0140	Are you negotiating?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0238par0141	Please...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0239par0142	Ma'am, did you say the Oslo negotiation process is a state secret? If there have been talks in Oslo, this is the national intelligence agency's...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0237par0143	Well, what do you know? Bashir Atalay corrects him, that makes it right. You run a government, what do you run? What are you talking
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0239par0144	...as part of the task he was given for intelligence purposes. Not at the point of a state secret right now.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0240par0145	Then why isn't it explained, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0237par0146	He'll probably take it to his house.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0239par0147	Mr. Serindağ, will many things be included in state secrets? It's the basic law. In 2001, you said you were different. Many articles of the Civil Code were changed in 2001, when DSP-MHP-ANAP governments were the majority. I was against it. And you gave away my conversations, my behavior, as a source. I'm an honest man, and I stand by all my words, my actions, my votes.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0241par0148	It's not about honesty.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0239par0149	The change in the Civil Code, which was intended to be made at that time, was not giving up any say in the opposition, nor as a motion, nor as a speech, nor in any other way. In the end, the Constitutional Court has already cancelled, but we've lost a valuable congressman friend. What we're doing right now is something else. The ruling on the basic law was also carried out by the Constitutional Court as it was being cancelled. Mashallah, there's been such an arrangement that, perhaps, close to a page, there's been a judgment on the fundamental law, so that it won't be cancelled again. When the AK PARTY Group brought in a group proposal here, he may have wanted to discuss it as the basic law. This is an incident outside of me. You certainly opposed it, but the majority decided. If the law is held as a fundamental law based on the number of substances, then you can of course object, you can say, "One meeting at a time." But the group proposal, as far as I know, ended this way. There's a common question, these, these, these, will be a state secret, or will the State Secret Board decide whether or not there's a state secret in this matter? We'll only be able to see it once this board has started its work and it's decided on this matter. The assassination case against me is in a few questions. Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Bey, Ali Riza Özturk Bey. December 2009, as far as I know, it's been a long time. On December 19, 2009, I was in Izmir, or in Manisa. There's been a mention of a catch like this in front of my house. I came the next day. I was Deputy Prime Minister at that time. With the information I received, you know what happened then. First two officers arrived in a taxi as civilians, which was reported at the time. I don't know if civilian teams are anti-terrorism or law enforcement, they've come, they've been taken into custody. There's been calls at their house, at work. I believe a search warrant was issued ten to fifteen days later. They couldn't get in at first, and then they did. What's been done, what's been done, it's been over three years. I'm just as interested in what this is all about as much as you are. One, in case there's no crime, in case there's no surveillance; two, no one can sue them, and we'll learn the quality of the crime.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0242par0154	Mr. Secretary, it hasn't been two and a half years.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0239par0155	I'll tell you, Ali Reza Bey. Now, dear friends, not only have I been asked about this, but as a verbal question, as a written question, I've asked the Ministry of Justice, the Parliament, and they've sent me questions and answers. In response to a question by Mr. Oktay Vural, I believe our Minister of Justice is still troubled, but we are not able to inform on the content of the Constitution by Article 138. And I'm in no position to do anything but give you that answer. So, I'm not in a position to know what this alleged issue is -- as a criminal lawyer -- is what it's going to be; who are they, who are they, what have they done? For the time being, the point was that a car was rented from a vintage car company. They've been in the area many times, they've gone -- witnesses say that -- and eventually there's a tip. They found a piece of paper with our address on it. That's the bet. And with all that, they made a search in the cosmic room, for days, as far as I know.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0243par0158	Twenty-six days.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0239par0159	I swear to God, I don't know what files were found or found there, or what was done from there.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0244par0160	Sir, how do you not know?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0239par0161	In this regard, our Minister of Justice...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0244par0162	You're a lawyer and you were assassinated, how could you not follow? Does that sound convincing to you?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0245par0163	Didn't you ask why?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0239par0164	Sir, if I tried to ask you that, I knew you'd be talking some other way around here.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0246par0166	Who are you kidding? You've been telling me for three years, and I don't know!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0239par0167	In order to impress the judge, you would call the Attorney General every day.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0247par0168	Mr. Secretary, the arrested MPs...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0248par0169	Madam Secretary, thank you. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I'm going to submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 7th article. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz has been asked to speak for the Republican People's Party Group on the first chapter.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0249par0176	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I first saw Mr. Secretary's promise that developments and negotiations in the Oslo negotiation process are not a state secret, and I took his word, and then I think that the negotiations and the results in this negotiation process should be explained. Now, as for the state secret bill, dear friends, we've been brought up with this bill for very good reasons. The purpose of the bill was to provide transparent, supervised, democratic governance, to clarify the concepts of state secrets and secrecy in harmony with the EU, not restrict the citizens' right to information unnecessaryly, to ensure reconciliation of the interests of the state and citizens, to ensure the right to information, to ensure transparency, to end unnecessary privacy culture. In fact, on the basis of the bill, the Constitutional Article 13 refers to the principle that fundamental rights and freedoms cannot be touched; Article 26 to the principle of freedom of expression and distribution; Article 28 to the freedom of the press. When we look at the draft text after the reasons are so spectacularly arranged, we see that there is a complete violation of these principles. The bill describes state secrets, unauthorized disclosure as classified information, documents and records that could harm state international relations or national security. In almost all countries, the concept of state secrets has been arranged and protected in some way, but one of the most important things about this issue is that one can balance rights and freedoms, democratic rights and freedom of knowledge and the concept of state secrets. This requires that the unit, which determines the concept of state secret, decide according to objective criteria and be audited. According to this bill, the ministers of Justice, Foreign Affairs, Internal Affairs and National Defence, led by the Prime Minister, will decide that information or document is a state secret. This board will be considered the State Secrets Evaluation Board. Unfortunately, there is no objection to the decisions of this board and there is no control mechanism. Mr. Secretary must have said something wrong about that. In this case, the concept of a government secret will be revealed, not a state secret. You don't have to be a soothsayer to see that. Here, I'd like to tell you about the applications of the European countries you claim to be imitating. France is applying to the CADA Commission against the rejection of information systems, and this commission can appeal to the judiciary against its decision. In the United States, there is also a Commission for Information, which is applied for, and it can be submitted to the judiciary on the grounds that the request is denied. In Italy, the authority to consider a document a state secret has been given to a commission headed by the Prime Minister, but it is decided at a joint meeting of the Senate and Assembly, so Parliament is the final decision-making authority. Again, the demands of public officials who refrain from testifying on the grounds that information is a state secret in Italy are decided by the commission, but if the court insists on testifying, the final decision will be made by Parliament again. A person who has been denied the right to information in Belgium will first apply for the relevant commission, and if his request is rejected, he can again appeal to the judiciary. In the bill we have discussed, there is no objection to the decision of the Evaluation Commission, which consists of four ministers as president of the Prime Minister, and the judiciary is closed. The only exception is the CMC provisions for sending documents and information on crimes that require more than five years to the criminal court. According to this verdict, only the tribunal can examine these documents, but beyond that, the administrative judiciary is closed against state secret decisions regarding direct noncriminal information and documents. As there is no regulation in the bill, state secret documents may not be submitted to the court by the Prime Minister or the minister, under Article 20/3 of Administrative Judiciary Act. As a result, the administrative judiciary is closed against the decisions of the State Secret Evaluation Board. This matter has been thoroughly reviewed by the Commission, and as a result, all lawyers have come to the same conclusion. However, we have submitted motions for the opening of the judicial path, but these motions have not been accepted. According to this bill, the president decides for himself whether or not the documents and information belonging to his unit will be sent to the court as a state secret. There is no way to control the president's decisions. As a result, is there a judicial audit or a parliamentary audit in this bill? There isn't. Then let the Minister explain to us where this bill is in accordance with the European Union's legislation. As it turns out, our concept of state secrets will be actually applied as a government secret, and it will not be a control mechanism. I'd like to give you a few examples of government secrets in this country. The question he asked the Information Technologies and Communications Agency about which house had a base station on the roof of the Tripoli Bar under the Information Information Act was not informed on the grounds that it was a state secret. Here, the administrative judiciary is closed against that answer. Mr. Congressman Mahmut Tanal Orbsik wanted to see the agreement signed with US Ambassador Ricciardone, regarding the deployment of the missile shield, which the Foreign Minister refused on the grounds that it was a state secret. However, it has been announced at the end of the talks with Obama, where an American facility, the Globecik missile shield, was recently transferred to NATO fifteen days ago. It is understood that, contrary to Article 92, U.S. troops have been deployed in this country without approval from the Parliament. In violation of the Constitution, the government's secret was kept hidden from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and from public opinion and publicly committed a constitutional crime. In 2009, National Defence Minister Vecdi Gonul was asked the birthplaces and autopsy reports of the soldiers who committed suicide in the last 20 years, and the question was not answered on the grounds that it was a state secret. The 12 pages of the Silence Report were not disclosed on the grounds that it was a state secret. With these 12 pages in the Ergenekon indictment, it was discovered that it was the murder of Özgür Gündem daily reporter and the murder of Musa Anter. With this bill under law, it's no surprise that the government's secret is the records of illegal transfers from abroad in the Lighthouse case. Let us not be surprised if the government secrets the corruption documents of AKP-based municipalities, because that is the main goal. With this bill, the AKP aims to cover up its corruption and irregularities, so it does not accept any control mechanism. The AKP, on the one hand, has authorized public auditers to examine state secret documents in the Law on Public Control last week, while preventing state secret documents from being sent to court. You know, you're saying it's okay for the public auditors to see these documents because they're elected by the legislature, the majority of parliament, the government, but it's against your better judgment. Despite designing the judiciary altogether, the AKP knows that there are fearless and heroic judges in this country. In 2003, this government issued the Law on Information No. 4982. Since this is the more apprentice period of power, then the law has been adopted in line with EU legislation, a more advanced arrangement than today's bill. Then power has not yet learned the subtlety of the work at that time. However, the laws are now being enforced in line with EU legislation, and the insides are being emptied, and the positives are being removed. If the information required by a citizen is not given by the administration in the Information Information Act, it is applied to the Information Evaluation Board. This Council consists of the Supreme Court, Prosecutor's Office, people reported by the Turkish Bar Association, professors and Ministry officials who are experts in the university. The nine - part of the Council is independent of the Ministry. It is possible to appeal to the judiciary for decisions made by this Council. As you can see, the Information Act has been passed in parallel with the regulation in European countries. I mean, whoever's drafting the bill we're talking about now knows the truth, but it doesn't work for them. Now, you may ask the following question: If there are such possibilities in the Information Law, will that affect the issue of state secrets? It does, my friends, because one of the restrictions in the Information Act is a state secret. However, it was necessary to give jurisdiction to the judicial bodies and independent individuals and to provide them with the control mechanism. But unfortunately, the government didn't do it, and even though he knew it and did it in 2003, now he's ignored it. You know what's going to happen with the State Secret Act that's going to be passed today? The Information Act will be translated into a bird, and in many places in practice, the government's secret cover will cover the information, restrict citizens' control of the state or access to information. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0250par0204	Thank you. Ertugrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP, who has asked for the Peace and Democracy Party Group to speak on behalf of the department. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0251par0207	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to start by making a historic reminder. After the victory of the Russian Revolution, led by the Bolsheviks on November 8, 1917, the revolutionary government's first act of foreign policy was to issue a decree on peace. Lenin's Second Order of Peace, adopted by all of Russia's Congress, offered to end the massacres of the First World War on the basis of fair, democratic peace, and to that end he promised that all secret agreements and future treaties would be discussed publicly in front of all the people. During the disclosure of classified documents, Bolshevik Foreign Minister Leon Trochki made the following determination regarding secret diplomacy: "Secret diplomacy is a tool for the minority of property owners who are forced to deceive the majority in order to protect their interests. " Yes, since the day Romanov dynasty fell down, the government secret was thrown into the waste of history as a state function that did not work for the people, but only for the owners of the property. Now we're invited to dig in that dump. Although this invitation has already been rejected by the people of the world because in our time, such secrecys are not likely to be kept for long. For two reasons: The first is that both state and industry and other social functions are no longer available without the multi-ethnic workings of many individuals. Thus, information processing technologies inevitably require that information be produced and stored in a widespread, pluralistic and international area. What this could lead to, in fact, is how such attempts to withhold information could be eliminated, and we have seen together how fragile it is, in fact, when a man working in the units of the United States of America, working in Iraq, found a network of relationships where he could share information with the entire world. Of course, these documents, on the other hand, worked very well; in fact, they confirmed the first thing I said. What you call knowledge is something that can't be hidden for long and can't be achieved without internationalization. So the Wikileaks documents, not just the American diplomacy, but the secret safes of diplomacy from all countries. In fact, there's a paradoxical aspect of this transparency: this transparency is only provided by someone who has the courage to accept or to be called a traitor. Private Manning, this soldier in the American army, deserves to be respected here today because he has revealed all the conspiracies that the United States has committed against the people of the world, including the local governments and local governments. In fact, Turkey's direct benefit was that the Russian revolution revealed the Tsar's secret treasure of information because the secret Sykes-Picot Agreement, which envisioned the sharing of Ottoman State's lands in the Middle East, had been revealed and provided a framework for Turkey's struggle to free itself from imperialism. Here, in fact, there was a prototype of the invasion plan that was carried out at the end of World War I when the Ottoman Empire accepted defeat. So secret diplomacy is bad, it's good to knock it down. Look, as a result of the explosion of the U.S. diplomatic storage unit, let us briefly remember what kind of information came out about Turkey. For example, one of them that's interesting is that I don't want to waste time reading them all, but most importantly, based on documents published in Wikileaks, it turns out that the Turkish government allowed controversial flights of the American Central Intelligence Agency -- the CIA -- to carry terrorist suspects from 2002 to 2006. The interrogations were used on planes and on secret bases to prevent Islamic terror suspects from taking advantage of the rights US law has known to people in custody, and by this telegram, CIA planes were used 24 times between 2002 and 2006, according to a telegram written by US Ambassador Ross Wilson. Now, if it hadn't been for Private Manning and Wikileaks, we wouldn't have known that our government would have inflicted such tortures on those who seek justice and justice elsewhere in the world. Now, this law, which is intended to be removed, wants to secure these secrecys with a law that has been decided by an eternal, extremely narrow click and is never connected to an objective criteria. The most important thing about this law, of course, I think, is that the definition of a state secret is out of the definition of a state secret. When you ask, "What is the secret of the state?" The answer comes as a state secret. Let me read: The secret of the state is classified information, documents, and records that can harm state international relations or national security. What records are they? It's classified, so we don't know that because it's a state secret. The secret of the state is the secret of the state. The strangest, more twisted part of the job, I think, is that even though the authors of this law say they're trying to obey the acquish of the European Union, they're doing it in the mind of a 19th century. I mean, we've never had the October Revolution, we haven't reached the age of knowledge; secret diplomacy, secret politics, state secrecy -- it's not really over, it's like people haven't been able to have all sorts of information. The law also states that a scientific discovery can be protected as a state secret if it is a property of national security. Dear friends, science cannot be built without passing information through a worldwide cycle. There is no such thing as national science, never has been, never will be. Now, when you say "science" about what's called a turnabout, it keeps in mind. If I'm not mistaken, 2008 or 2009, a group of strange people said that they had come together to produce an infinite energy-generating device, which they called "Advertising," which they kept in secret, but they never received patents from anywhere because the machine of the Con Ahmet Level machine was never built. Now, with a mind like this, a secret scientific discovery, et cetera, some technologies, some techniques may be produced locally, but science can never be produced locally, never guaranteed. This ridiculous material actually gives out the mindset of the founders very clearly, but more importantly, the principle that information can be protected as a state secret for 50 years, that the information that has been passed through the process can be included in this process: the year 2012, take it back 50 years, 1962; and no information and document that has ever happened from 1962 to 1962, if the government calls it the state secret, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't. On the one hand, you will reveal the history of coups, and you will be able to include everything that happened today from the first blow into the state secret. That's for a handful of ministers and the Prime Minister to decide. It's actually an attempt to use the government's knowledge and document to establish a dictatorship against its political opponents, to shut down public access and to make a dictatorship permanent by locking information, but the people are fighting against it, you know, the Red Hackers, thank God, they'll break your code no matter how long you hide it.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0252par0218	Thank you. Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu, Osmaniye MP who has asked for the National Movement Party Group to speak on behalf of the department.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0253par0220	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group regarding the first chapter of State Secret Code 287. I salute your high council. Throughout history, political regimes have radically influenced what we call evolution and what we call institutional structure and what we call functions of this structure. The modern sense of democracy that humanity has reached has revealed that the real purpose of the mechanism we call the government is to protect citizens' lives and property safety and their basic rights and freedoms, briefly, and that authority is the source of their freedom. This political position, provided to individuals or citizens who form society, has also brought citizens' rights to control and account for the state. The basic requirement for effective use of these rights is that citizens have access to sufficient information on state activities without freedom or constraint. So it's fundamental and general that citizens can have knowledge in democracies, but the state's keeping secrets is exceptional. The state restricts access to information for a period of time, restricts access to information, also limits the right to the right to defend and fair trial in the context of expression and distribution of the individual's idea of information, even criminal law. So there is a paradoxical relationship between democracy and freedoms and the concept of the state's secret. As the scope of the state secret expands, democracy and freedoms shrink. Many of the world's events have greatly confirmed that fact. In Fascist Germany and Italy, the concept of the state secret has reached a point where citizens have even been threatened by the right to live. Given the functions of the states, there is no question of the need to maintain certain information within secrecy and secrecy to ensure safety, but what we must first declare here is the public interest of the state, not itself, but the state's own. The state can only preserve information to protect the peace and security of society, the interests of the public, but these borders must remain within the borders of democracy and the state of law. The most fundamental rule of the legal state, which has to be bound by law and by all actions and decisions, both to protect the safety of the citizen, is the regulation of the unconstitutional order, which has also found its place in our Constitution. Public officials operating in the state's organs cannot give orders to commit crimes regardless of their place, title or rank. No one can carry out a crime-related order. Such an order does not relieve those who give the command and those who carry it out before the law. The meaning of this arrangement in our constitution is that the state, regardless of its purpose, cannot commit a criminal act, and if it works, it cannot be protected or judged. Thus, a crime committed by state officials cannot be withheld from the judiciary by the secret of the state, nor can it be covered up in order to protect the interests of the state. Unfortunately, some of the experiences that our country has experienced have shown us how state officials have ordered criminal organizations to commit crimes in the interest of the state, that they have committed crimes within the state, that they have been covered by the state's secret, and that the hands and arms of the judicial authorities are bound. Today we have to learn from these painful experiences and make our laws based on that fact. We have to prevent the concept of "state secret" from becoming a criminal cover-up and a criminal protection mechanism, even if it's a government official. However, the draft bill shows that the government does not carry such concern. On the contrary, it seems as if a part of the government has entered into a strange rush, or even the psychology of fear, to conceal their violations and crimes under the name of political activity. The Law on Protection of State Secrets, which has waited four years, even in the Congress of the United States, where security is most important, has been rushed to our top-of-the-line agenda by the AKP government. This concerns us both and worries us about the future of our country and democracy. What is the government trying to hide from public knowledge, calling what activities "the secret of the state"? The head of the government must answer some questions. Will a number of MIT officials, as police officers and Republican prosecutors have identified and claimed, hide their criminal activities as part of the state's secret from the judiciary? Will the protocol that Hakan Fidan signed with the PKK in Oslo, talks and terrorists be included in the "state secret"? At the time, the Deputy Secretary of the Prime Minister said to him, "I gave the order, and he carried out my order." "Will the government be accepted as the secret of what the government promises to the separatist terrorist, as the one who gave the order and who carried out the order be taken away from justice? Mr. Hakan Fidan and his associates have been waiting for about four months before the Prime Minister. After this law is passed, will the State take these allegations into its own confidence and make fun of the judiciary? Will the separatist road map, which was prepared by the separatist chief in Imran, which is still hidden from public opinion, be kept in the national and international judiciary forever, as part of the government secret, which we know is taking step by step? To cover up what happened in Uludere, and to conceal your understanding that those who fight terrorism will be considered war criminals, will you decide the state secret? The Secretary of State's "Big Brother." The covert deals with Talabani and Barzani, the commitments to beyond the ocean, we will not act on land beyond the border, only on my knowledge and written orders. Will the alleged government be kept secret and hidden from the public? So, tomorrow, what will we do if corruption claims, including energy work, unemployment, inflation, foreign debt information, and economics and politics are included in the government's secret? All this shows is that this law is a new shield of immunity that protects not the safety of the state and the interests of the public, but the Prime Minister and his bureaucrats who understand the language of the body. The concept of "state secret" becomes the secret of those who run the state and gives AKP bureaucrats the privilege of committing crimes. It is not the rule of law, but "the law of superior ones is protected, " as the prime minister often says. The power of the special authorities courts has now become a threat to the Prime Minister who gave it to him himself. Power is out of control, part of the prime minister's absolute power field has been taken over by a monopoly across the ocean. The Prime Minister is also afraid of unfair trials. And he is not secure from the evil of that which he hath created. For the first time, the word "fear empire" pronounced from this stand by our president, Mr. State Bahçeli, to describe the order established by AKP power, applies only to our nation yesterday, while the ruling members today carry the fear and concern of a non-political government. But fear is of no avail at all. In the state of law, no one is allowed to commit a crime, even if he is Prime Minister. We are all witnesses in the AKP era, with the latest and most violent form of law being politicized and the last to be rendered ineffective of principles such as the right to a fair trial and the sanctity of the right to defend. As you have ignored the principles of universal law today, tomorrow someone can ignore the law and deal with you more violently, despite the protection laws you have passed. Don't give it a chance. One day we'll all need the right to protect our individual freedoms in front of the court. These freedoms should not be sacrificed to concepts such as the government secret, which governs your personal fears and concerns. You may claim to have been victimized, but if you also victimize yourself, you will open the gates of vengeance and reckoning hell with your own hands, and you will make it legitimate for others to pass through this door. "Men minute dukka," "who steals, steals," don't forget this blessed advice. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the respected MPs of the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0254par0241	Thank you. Bulent Turan, İstanbul MP... no. Scholar Illum, Kütahya MP... no. The question-answer procedure will take 15 minutes. Mr. Light... no. Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0255par0247	Mr. President, through you, I'd like to ask the Minister, I just asked him. The Minister has often made statements in the press about arrested MPs. One of them is that the arrested MPs will be released without a name and should be in the House. However, Mr. Secretary, the arrested MPs are not still in Parliament, they are in Silivri Prison. So, as a government, what arrangements have they made and made for arrested lawmakers to be able to operate and serve under the sovereignty of the Constitution, such as in Article 7 of the Constitution?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0254par0249	Thank you. Mr. Oz... no. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0256par0252	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, without Mr. Arinc, I had to change my question. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to bring to your attention some of the questions asked at the Odatv hearing: "Why did you write the article? Why did you not publish the news? Why did you not publish the news??" When we examine the questions, no weapons, no bombs, no violence, no assassinations. Also, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to bring to your attention the president of the State's Office's answer to a question at the University of TOBB. The boy says our phones are tapped. How do you feel about that?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0257par0257	Thank you. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0258par0259	Thank you. Mr. President, I've submitted my statement before, and I think it's been prevented from responding. Article 1 of the Interim Article 1 mentions information that should be processed and reprocessed before its release date. What does it mean to have been processed, and what will the result be when the information that needs to be reprocessed is brought into the state secret, even in the case of prosecution?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0257par0260	Thank you. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0259par0262	Thank you. Mr. President, we have a problem, the problem is that the questions we're asking here cannot be answered by the ministers due to the lack of time, but they say they'll send them in writing later, which they don't. And this time we have to make it a written question motion. Not Mr. Ismet, but I must warn the ministers of this matter. I have to repeat my question: the administrative path is open. It is called. No, I do not allow this to be a case in the administrative courts. There is no explanation for this if he says. For one thing, what Mr. Arinc said on the stand is not true. Second: The concept of the state secret described in CMK 47 is redefined in Article 3 of this law, but the scope has been narrowed and information and documents threatening constitutional order have been removed from the scope. Let them explain that, why? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0260par0267	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0261par0269	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, will the information revealed in Galataport, Telecom and many energy privatisations, which have led to many doubts in public and have not been illuminated so far, be hidden as part of the government's secret? Two: Will the secrets of the Dolmabahçe meeting between the famous Erdogan-Grandanit be preserved in reverse under this law? When will the public know about this? I'd appreciate it if you could fill me in on that.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0262par0272	Thank you. Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0263par0274	Mr. Secretary, do you think that a country where a document and information can be described as a state secret with a word between the Prime Minister's lips and can be kept out of control for about 50 years -- half a century -- can it be considered a democratic country?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0262par0275	Thank you. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0264par0277	Thank you, Mr. President. My question was incomplete. Mr. Secretary, at a conference at the University of TOBB-ETU, a student asks the question: "Our phones are being tapped, and what do you think about it?" The way they listen is different. He's resting in your bedroom now. Don't worry, there's nothing wrong with cell phones. Can you make that sound like the President of the Court? If you think about what I just asked, does the climate that was created during your time of power have any effect on the period that a journalist described as the spirit of time? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0265par0282	Thank you. Mr. Sour...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0266par0284	Mr. President, thank you. There's one thing I'd like the Minister to explain: the State Secret Evaluation Board is locking up information for 50 years. Which authority does this lock belong to before fifty years?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0265par0286	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0267par0288	First of all, Mr. President, this is the Constitution we're talking about. The Constitutional Assembly shall bind, the Constitution shall bind the court, and the Constitution shall bind the administration. What does the Constitution say is the 125th article: the judiciary is clear against all actions and procedures of the administration. Is the Council established by the president of the Prime Minister an administrative body? It's an administrative establishment.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0268par0289	Why isn't this Constitutional decree binding on the Undersecretary of the MIT, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0267par0290	The judiciary for all actions and procedures of the administration is clear. This Council is an administrative establishment. If anyone objects to the nature of this Council's state secret quality, it is possible to go to the administrative court, so this decision is subject to judicial supervision.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0269par0291	So, how's the administrative court going to look at it?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0270par0292	The 8th article has an open sentence, the testimony of those information and documents... based on what will the court decide?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0269par0293	Judge on what?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0270par0294	The court will decide on what it is, and neither information nor documents are stated.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0269par0295	Is that possible, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0271par0296	No, look, wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0270par0297	Read the 8th article, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0271par0298	The first issue is that it's a state secret, so it's a state secret, and it's a state secret, and the judge says, "Yes, it's a state secret." If another court asks for this, it says here it is not given. It says so clearly, but you've just given the state secret, not passed judgment, so it's open to that judgment, there's nothing in it.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0272par0299	Mr. Secretary, we discussed this in the Commission. There, both our government and legal friends couldn't make it clear.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0271par0300	No, it's very clear...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0272par0301	No, no, they didn't.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0271par0302	I apologize, look, I say this as a lawyer, as a law doctor, if you call it a higher law than the 125th Amendment of the Constitution, it's not true. If that means anything, going to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court will call it off, no doubt. First we will know the Constitution... that the norms have a hierarchy, the constitution is at the top, the laws cannot be unconstitutional. All actions and procedures of the administration are subject to judicial supervision.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0273par0303	He can't control it!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0271par0304	No, that's not what the 8th article says. Article 8 states that the court cannot demand a document that has been sealed as a state secret. Whether it is a state secret or not, it is subject to court supervision.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0273par0305	It's been confirmed, it's been decided.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0274par0306	The 8th article is open, says the 8th article. Read the 8th article, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0273par0307	The final decision is based on the decision, Mr. Secretary. And the government doesn't know what law comes with it.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0274par0308	▪ Read Article 8 in case it is decided.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0309	Look, Mr. President, that's the question, but... The 8th article is that the state's secret documents cannot be issued unless...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0274par0311	Read it, Mr. Secretary, and read it, it clearly says... in Kurulca.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0312	Look, very clearly, the board's decision is an administrative procedure and subject to judicial supervision.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0276par0313	He won't, he won't, how will he?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0277par0314	He says he may not, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0315	No, honey, okay? There's a difference.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0276par0316	There are Oslo documents, for example.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0317	See, the case is given to us in the form of this secret document. If it is opened in the form of this secret document, or if the court demands it, it is not a secret document. If it is opened in the form of this document, is it not a secret or is it not a secret? This confidentiality decision is made in order, or is it not given in order, in this way...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0276par0318	He says he can't be given, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0278par0319	Clearly, the 8th Amendment is very clear.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0320	Look, I'm very clear that if it's classified, it's not given, but there's a difference. Look, in law, it's terms. If you say that the decision made by this Council is not in order, it is not in accordance with the law, it is not in accordance with the law. If you go to the administrative court, the administrative court will decide whether this council is in accordance with the law or not.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0276par0321	He can't look inside because it's appropriate.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0322	No, he'll look, he'll look.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0276par0323	Then why don't you take him to court?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0324	No... Look, there's a procedure in the Penal Code on how to study classified documents. The last time, you know, you asked about the incident with Bulent Arinc Bey. Didn't the judge go to those secret places and examine it himself? Which means that the secret documents will be examined by the judge and in our legal order... the judge will look into it, get the note, see if there's any privacy...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0276par0326	You won't give me the documents in Oslo.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0327	Any document is open to judgment, there's no doubt about it.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0276par0328	Documents in Oslo?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0279par0329	That's not what the lawyers say.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0330	No, no, I'm a lawyer, that's what everyone says. There's nothing here like nobody else.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0279par0331	There's no jurisdiction over the state secret of forensic and administrative investigations.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0332	No. If this board has decided that a document is a state secret, then this is an administrative procedure. You can also go to administrative court against this administrative procedure.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0280par0334	No, the administrative court is not clear.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0281par0335	Mr. Secretary, a road that doesn't work closes the 8th article, depending on what...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0336	No. Article 8 of the 8th article is that sometimes the state secret cannot and will not be taken by the courts without a verdict or objection.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0282par0338	Oslo talks are state secrets? Covenant, protocols...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0339	In other words, Mr. Serindağ has a request or a question. In this question, I would say to my citizens, as someone who has served in the bureaucracy for many years, as well as the Ministry of Transport, I would say, "Be assured, your phones are not being tapped."
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0282par0340	Mr. Secretary of Transport said: "Talk less, he's resting."
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0341	So he says to save money, that's the first thing. The second thing is...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0282par0342	You're making fun of people. Don't make fun of these people.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0343	No, there's definitely no regiment.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0283par0344	Minister, the road to administrative justice is clear.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0284par0345	Mr. Secretary, I've given three question motions, it's not listening to me. He hasn't tried to ask me a question. We have the official document.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0346	However, Mr. Serindağ, such a press has been created, such a... so we've been told, whether it's the spirit of time or the climate, we've led everyone to their paranoia. The government can't listen to everyone, it doesn't have that capacity, it doesn't have that authority. There is no need for it, nor any benefit for it.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0285par0347	Isn't the government capable of listening?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0348	Two, it's obvious that the MPs won't be heard, because he's a representative of the nation, and he doesn't speak except for those in favor of the nation, but the climate did. Everyone's useful in this environment, and it contributes to our conversations.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0285par0349	Like Nurettin Canikli, right?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0350	Of course, Mr. Light had another question, again, to see if the negotiations between Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Buyukanit will be disclosed?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0285par0351	Your vice president, Nurettin Canikli...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0286par0352	But he's not rested, he's stuck. There's a difference!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0353	No, no, you know him.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0287par0354	Mr. Secretary, I'm going to give you a question proposal about myself, whether you're listening or not?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0355	You ask me, you ask us, we'll...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0287par0356	Promise?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0357	Okay, okay, don't worry. Okay, we'll ask.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0287par0358	Okay.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0359	Again, talks with the Prime Minister about Mr. Grananit...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0288par0360	Mr. Secretary, how do you interpret the state's attorney's statement? So let's get your opinion on that, too.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0289par0361	Ask him, he says, "Bilent Arinc."
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0362	So the head of our law explains its own opinion. Anyone can do it differently. The meeting between the Prime Minister and Mr. Grandchannel, the meeting between two people, the private meeting.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0289par0364	Special?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0365	Yeah, it's a private meeting. Since it's a private meeting, both the Prime Minister and the other will go with me for the rest of my life. I don't have to explain. He said, and the other said.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0290par0367	Why are they doing it in Dolmabahçe? Let them go to their homes, let them eat, and let them meet in their homes. Is Dolmabahçe private, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0368	But do you know what the two of them are talking about? We don't know.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0291par0369	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0370	Well, if you do, then you don't need to know.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0292par0371	Then let them talk at home, let them talk at dinner, friend of the family.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0275par0372	You don't need to know if you know.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0293par0373	Sir, we need the Prime Minister to explain a meeting that's been under this much suspicion to get out and clear the air. Look, the Prime Minister is accused.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0292par0374	Is there a private meeting at a place like Dolmabahçe?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0294par0375	Sir, this isn't a conversation when you're eating stuffing, it's a talk in Dolmabahçe.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0295par0376	What's special between the Chief of Staff and the Prime Minister, dear?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0296par0377	And Mr. Oktay Vural had a question, "What is being processed?" According to the laws established by the Council of Ministers of 1964, the scope of the document was determined, but this bill envisions review, categorization, and decoding. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thus, in the past, this is the secret of the state. It is not a secret of the state. It will be decided. In other words, Mr. Oktay Sorik.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0297par0381	The microphone is off, Minister.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0298par0382	If you could just open it up a little bit...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0299par0383	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0298par0384	It's important, sir. I don't think it's a secret. That's a state secret, your answers.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0299par0385	Talks on chapter one are complete. No vote, Mr. Fine, so...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0300par0387	I'm standing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0299par0388	Well, now, I'm going to submit the clauses in chapter one to your separate votes after I've processed the motions on that clause, if there is one. There are two motions on Article 1, but the motions are the same, so I'm going to make them read, I'm going to process them together, I'm going to make a separate promise to those who have motions, or I'm going to have them read their reasons. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 1st draft of the current 287 rows of legislation. We provide and propose that the clause be removed from the text. Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan Ertuğrul Furçı İbrahim Bincı Adil Kurt Halil Aksoy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 1st draft of the State Secret Code of 287 rows. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan İkturk Bkent Tezcan Oktay Soshi İlhan Demirözıs Ali Serindağ Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0301par0408	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0299par0409	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0302par0410	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0299par0411	Oktay Soşi, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the proposal.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0303par0413	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, you have in your presence the State Secret Bill, which has been asked to be a topic of regulation for a long time, but has been rushed to Parliament in the last few days. I personally believe that the worst rule is better than the best rule, because you can see, you can correct the wrong rule, but for the first time in my life, I've seen the rules worse than the law. With your permission, I'd like to tell you what I mean by that. The bill leaves the authority to decide which information is to be considered a state secret to the State Secret Evaluation Board, consisting of Justice, Foreign Affairs, Internal Affairs and National Defence Ministers, under the prime minister's leadership. We all know what that means in practice. In the end, the Prime Minister will decide which information, which information, will be hidden from the nation for at least 50 years. For example, the government's secret negotiations with PKK terrorism in Oslo will not be possible for Turkish public opinion for 50 years. The same is true of the meeting the Prime Minister had with the former President of the United States, George Bush, dated November 5, 2007, when I believed that our country had significant impacts on its fate. I'd like to say that there is no anomaly in keeping certain information secret for a period of time so that it doesn't harm national security and international relations, and even in putting it in the state secret category, I don't think there's an anomaly, but if you take the duration of keeping this information hidden beyond acceptable limits, for example, if you put a ban on your own public for 50 years instead of thirty, you'd be desecrating both your own people and even the scientists who need to reveal the facts about it. You'd be betraying democracy, especially if you left the final decision-making authority to an unlimited, zero-responsibility board, or rather to the Prime Minister. It's not enough that you're wrong about leaving authority only to the Prime Minister, but legally you're making unforgivable mistakes. You changed the 74th article of the Constitution two years ago, didn't you? The Constitution, then, is entitled to all knowledge. You are the ones who have passed judgment. Now, again, most of you have prevented the citizens' right to information for at least 50 years. Are you not in violation of the 13th article of the Constitution, which states that basic rights and freedoms can be restricted without being touched? For a moment, after a year or so, that information will become clear. I feel like I'm hearing what you're saying. Then, please answer this: What information would be considered a state secret, a board of the Prime Minister and four ministers would decide, wouldn't you? You wouldn't deny that the board decision was a savings of management. As a matter of fact, Mr. Secretary just did. The possibility of going to any judicial authority against this board's decision, despite Mr. Minister's resistance, is a legal fact that there is no such possibility because the bill has closed this door. At that time, the judiciary of the Constitution is clear against all actions and procedures of the administration. Aren't you openly and officially violating the 125th article? It's obvious what you're doing. By this law, you give the Prime Minister a new and unlimited and unregistered authority, just as you passed the law to get the Undersecretary of the National Intelligence to go to court and avoid testifying. With that law, you interrupted the trial of a public official who committed the most violent crime under the Prime Minister's mandate. You've linked it to the Prime Minister's permission, but we all know you've opened the way for the criminal to go unpunished. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Congressmans, I'd like to complete my statement with this: Do you really, at least for a minute, think about where this is going? My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0304par0424	Thank you, Mr. Sour. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 1st draft law in which 287 rows are in session. We provide and propose that the clause be removed from the text. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0305par0430	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0304par0431	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0306par0432	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0304par0433	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0307par0435	All of these proposals are about subtraction because we're against the whole bill. But I have a few words for you here. We're building a new constitution. In this new constitution, we will create the philosophy of a new social contract. What's the rush to get this thing out of here? Look, on the one hand, we sign international contracts, and in the Constitution, we say they're above domestic law. On the other hand, for 50 years, friends, 50 years, do you really think you've created a legal process where there's no jurisdiction, no knowledge society? Tomorrow you will face these setbacks, injuries under judicial supervision, at the European Court of Human Rights. I'm asking you now, what happened to the missing weapons in the 90s, Batman? Where'd he go? Does anyone know? Has the House been able to oversee it? Go to those dark, unsolved periods where parliament cannot control, which the House itself cannot control, and its commissions cannot. Go to the library or read the silence report. You'll see politics, mafia, state triangles, even drugs, under the guise of state secrets, are transported in funeral vehicles, what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing. Now, is that possible in the state of law? Ha, we can tell you very clearly that this law is crippled, that Turkey doesn't need it right now, that the public doesn't have such a demand, that there's no debate, and if you think you're going to make the government strong, you're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0308par0440	What's the current situation?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0307par0441	At this moment, with this law, with the state secret, the government's board of its prime minister, like an unlimited irresponsible company, is infinitely irresponsible.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0308par0442	What if there's no law?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0307par0443	Look, let me be clear, what we're going to do is, as the opposition, we have three choices ahead of us. If you're in power again, you'll have that law by 2023. No, if, in these elections, the people take power from you of their own free will, we will remove all of your laws and throw them in the trash; that's what we'll do. If we succeed, if we get the will from the nation, not by force... because we want to warn that under everything dark and hidden, there will be too many dangerous adventures in Turkey, let alone illegal killings, political assassinations. We're really warning this in good faith. That's no state secret law, fellas. What do you intend to do with the state secret law, what you want to do, who you want to protect from who? It's an incomprehensible situation. Imagine that tomorrow, a number of life-rights violations have been committed. The incident went to the War Crimes Court or to the European Court of Human Rights. The Constitution said the individual application was September 23rd. You'll go out and tell them it's a state secret. Tell me something. Come on, you told the special authority court here, the court of justice here, the judges in Strasbourg, that I am a state secret, not giving information. If you have the courage to say it, if you have the courage to say it, then make it your own law. If he doesn't call the undersecretary to the court and question the name of his mother and father and ask for that information, you'll see... so, now, we know these things, we're alive. Over and over, we've questioned the prosecutor, questioned the general, questioned the witness. It will be done. I'm warning this, it's futile... so if you shared it a little bit, we'd add a little bit of experience with the opposition, and we'd say to you, "This is not the secret of the state." Unfortunately, it's wrong. Alone, I see you're very tired. The reason for our proposals isn't very long this time, Mr. Kubat is looking -- we've been sensitive about that. But we're pointing out wrong, and we're hoping you'll come back wrong.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0309par0446	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0310par0450	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0309par0451	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Ören, Mr. Silver, Mr. Öner, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Tünce, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Earth, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Coach, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Oyan. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 2 of the same nature, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the removal of Article (2) of the existing 287 rows of legislation from the text. The wicked Tiger Pervin Buldan Fair Wolf Halil Aksoyya Birtane Ertuğrul Furçı Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan İkturk Ali Serindağ İlhan Demirözüs Bkent Tezcan Mahmut Tanal Oktay Vural Nevzat Unafraid Scholar Light Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Ali Öz Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0311par0487	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0309par0488	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0312par0489	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0309par0490	Alim Ikım, MP of Kütahya who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0313par0491	Mr. President, I've been promised a amendment motion on the Second Amendment of State Secret Act 287, which we're discussing. On this occasion, I salute you all. During general talks on the bill, the esteemed lawmakers voiced a number of shortcomings, but once again, this bill, which aims to cover many issues that have not been cleared in the ten-year AKP administration under the name of the government's secret, aims to ensure that for 50 years these issues cannot be discussed, cannot be judged, and cannot be explained to the public in any way in any way in the field of information. Therefore, the immediate withdrawal of this bill would be in the best interest of this nation and our country. Now, I'd like to remind you once again to weigh these matters again on your conscience. Minister, I've just asked you, on May 4, 2007, you said that the secret meeting between Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the Chief of General Staff at the time was a private meeting. If they have a private meeting, they can meet at someone's house at dinner with their parents, they can have all the meetings they want, but if you describe a meeting at Dolmabahçe Palace as a special meeting, then it would seem that no one will be able to question it because it is part of the government's secret to this meeting. One. Two: The allegations expressed in the PKK-MIT talks and protocols in Oslo talks, which are included in the PKK-MIT talks and protocols, as well as in the entity newspaper and other national media, for example, soldiers and police serving as war criminals in the fight against terrorism in the southeastern part of the country, will be tried as war criminals, the parties agreed on this matter, even if it remains a secret within this scope. Those who promise to do so and on behalf of the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister and the Deputy Minister of the Time, today's Deputy Minister of the MITs will not be able to judge on this issue in 20 years, even after the change of the MIT Act. Therefore, you must have understood very well what was intended to be hidden. Another is the Prime Minister's talks with Hariri (Hariri) prior to the privatisation of Telekom. Information, documents, and talks in Putin-Erdoğan meeting in Sochi (Sochi) during the restructuring of the natural gas formula. Information and documents from Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President of the United States Bush regarding concessions and the search for political solutions to the PKK terrorist organisation on 5 November 2007. Now, if all of this is said by the Prime Minister's orders, and five others by the minister's approval, how do we share them with the nation, how do we all save the future of this country together? Therefore, this law is nothing more than the law of the AKP to cover up all the irregularities that it has done in the past ten years and its practices that have hurt its public conscience. We say that the withdrawal of this law will be very helpful, that the conscience of our beloved nation will be prevented once again from bleeding. This motion also stipulates that the provision of the law be removed from the draft text. Hopefully, we'll get this clause out of here by supporting our motion. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0314par0504	Any further requests on the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0315par0505	Mahmut Tanal...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0314par0506	Mahmut Tanal, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0316par0508	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. The state secret law... in countries that are fundamentally democratic law states, does not make such a comprehensive state secret law. But first, this state secret law has to start with the name. When we look inside the bill, it's explained how the state secret board will be formed, how the documents will become state secrets. Mr. Secretary says he's a law doctor when the provisions of the procedure are announced in our laws, so what do you mean by that? The state secret is the law of procedure. This name, in this way, does not match the title with the content. From this point of view, I'd like to draw your attention to this first. Does a democratic law state keep a secret? If so, what is the secret of the state? Who or who determines the secret of the state based on what concrete criteria? How long do information and documents that are classified as state secrets remain a secret? Who, under what circumstances, can be found in documents and information set as state secrets? In fact, the answers to these questions are directly linked to the reality of the claim to be a democratic state of law. In a civilized society, everyone has to answer if you don't want any privileges. This law also violates the rule of law, which is essential to the democratic state of law in bringing pleasure. Mr. Secretary said: "Sir, this is an administrative procedure." He is subject to judicial supervision against administrative procedures under Article 125 of the Constitution. Well, you have to ask immediately: When we look at the bill, in what ways does the state secret become a state secret? When we look at the article, there is no explanation that a document can be issued under the state secret of the state through the judiciary. The document on the president is also left to the president's discretion in terms of information. Our Constitution has already said that there is no way to go to justice against the President's actions. So from this point of view, when the courts are in trouble, what are they going to look at? They will look at the basis of the law, and they will look at the debates, the transcripts in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Well, apart from Mr. Secretary, we haven't met another commissioner who agrees, nor has this been discussed in the commission, nor has it been discussed here. The incident here has been completely excluded from the scope of the judiciary, so the account has been brought to an unaccountable area. In my 25 years as a lawyer, I learned that until now, all crimes have been committed at night, committed in darkness. So if there's going to be a crime, you're going to cover it up in democratic law states. What's the way to screen it? It's a state secret. So here in the Nazi era, during the Italian period of fascism, when the Zanardelli Penal Code was brought to us in 1930, what was the basic joke there, the purpose of protecting the state? As part of this kind of state secret, materials could be brought in. But after World War II, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, along with the European Convention on Human Rights, expanded the territory of democratic law states, narrowing down the scope of state secrets as much as possible, but the wisdom is, this area has been expanded throughout the ruling period. At the same time, it is a violation of the right to a long-term, 50-year state secret, a long-term state secret of the European Convention on Human Rights, within the framework of the freedom of rights search; it is a violation of the Constitution. There is no other country but Turkey, which has travelled so far towards the European Union, that brings such broad state secret legislation. Ankara, which is currently on trial for Canaan's Universe, is now the 12th. At the request of documents related to May 1, MIT says: "I have sent this to the Chief of Staff. The Chief of Staff says: "Yes, I am sending this, but only if it is written and not read by members except by the court president." Now, can you imagine, dear friends, that our law has a rule? He's sending a court of law over five years. Well, you have to ask the Minister: what do we do if it's under five years? He won't be asked, and he won't be able to ask the court, which, unfortunately, will be a problem. Thank you. Have a good evening.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0317par0521	Thank you. Since September 12th military coup, Turkey has been governed by the constitution of coup and legislation. In our country, where central powers are strengthened, military custody through the MGK channel, intelligence, judicial guardianship, and the wheel of bureaucracy, an authoritarian regime operates, in which there is, in fact, a lot of legislation on "the secret of the state," the law on "state secret" is issued, and the transfer of authority to a prime minister and a institution of its own is an understanding that destroys the will of the people. There is no such requirement in the EU legislation, as there is no such requirement, and the provisions that cannot be stopped by the ECHR and the use of basic rights and freedoms go to a violation of Article 90 of the Constitution. Parliamentary control is being completely eliminated, judicial control under the condition of permission is ignored, the right to person's rights and freedoms, the right to information is being rescinded. The concept of political democracy/Parliament is sought to be eradicated by understanding that protects the deep state, counter-Gullella/Gladito, coupger, gangistic understandings exist in TK, CMK and many special laws, which connect state secrets to the prime minister by expanding them and trying to protect them for a long time. Recently, the burning of thousands of villages has been seen as the secret of an unsolved murder. Freedom of thought and organisation is sought to be removed by uncertain concepts, such as the "public privacy zone." The secrets of the government/walking are sought to protect illegal actions, to be left at the mercy of their appointed bureaucrats/princes. While foreign policy, defence, finance, justice, economics are also in trouble with the EU's 30 chapters on fundamental issues, the arrangement will create new problems. Human rights, law and democracy have been intended to be removed from the bill. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 3 of the same nature, which I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the removal of Article (3) of the current 287 rows bill from the text. Hasip Tiger Ibrahim Rider Fair Wolf İstüğümiye İrtüğül Kürkcı Halil Aksoy Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan İkturk Ali Serindağ Mahmoud Tanal İlhan Demiröz Bulent Tezcan Oktay Vural Nevzat Unafraid Scholar Light Ali Öz Mustafa Kalaycı Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0318par0554	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0317par0555	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0319par0556	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0317par0557	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0320par0558	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0317par0559	I'm reading the reason: The state secret definition of this bill narrows the scope of the state secret, which is still in the legislation, such as the law of criminal reasoning and the law of learning. The bill considers secret information that can only harm the state's international relations or national security, while the state's secret is also part of the law, which can harm national defence and may pose a danger to the state's constitutional order and foreign relations, even if it does not harm national defence. If this bill becomes law, the definition of state secret in the CMC will be removed. If this bill becomes law, a committee will decide which secret information will be a state secret. This board, called the State Secret Protection Board, is chaired by the Prime Minister, consisting of Justice, Foreign Affairs, Internal Affairs and National Defence Ministers. The state secret is unclear how to control the decision of the protection board regarding whether it is a secret or not. This will lead to a cover-up of all the irregularities of the ruling AKP as a state secret. A scientific discovery can be protected as a state secret if it carries a property of national security. So that many scientific discoveries that can benefit the country can be concealed under the name of state secrets. An information protected as a state secret can be stopped from being a state secret because of its loss. The maximum time of protection as a state secret is considered 50 years. One information will not be protected as a state secret after 50 years after the Council decision was made. Many of the AKP's irregularities and corruption will not be studied, judged, and spoken for 50 years. According to the current provisions, the issue of a crime will not be kept secret from the courts, allegedly a state secret. As a matter of fact, these are 125 calls from a place called the cosmic room. It's done according to the clause. According to the bill, however, information, documents, and records of state secrets requested by the courts may not be given to the Court by specifying the grounds. This means that the CMK provisions mentioned above will be neutralized. Thus, for example, as deputy prime minister of the current Undersecretary of the MIT, there will never be any discussion of criminal information related to these issues, since the talks he held in Oslo will be a state secret. In this way, as part of the current investigations conducted in private officials' courts, the prime minister and his working team will be closed to the courts. The agreement protocols, which include concessions to the terrorist organisation in talks between PKK-MIT representatives illegally under the Prime Minister's orders, will be overlooked by the public and the mighty Turkish Nation. It is also requested to cover its information during talks between government representatives and representatives of domestic or foreign companies during telecom, galataport, natural gas and energy tenders or privatisations. With this bill, it is clear that the national interests of the Republic of Turkey cannot be protected. When the bill is passed, the state of the Republic of Turkey will lose its property as a legal state. For reasons revealed above, the removal of this clause in the draft text would be a more accurate and beneficial job in the future of our country and our nation. Ali Serindağ, MP of Gaziantep, has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0321par0582	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members, I salute you all. Now, we put the matter to your votes, not read the material text, not known on what issues are arranged in the matter, but accept or deny. This is indeed an issue that restricts the legislature of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I offer this to your attention, my dear friends. There's no such thing as law talks. We need to discuss the law in detail, each member has to express his views. This sets an example for those who apply it. When the practitioners hesitate in the future, they will be guided by who said what in the negotiations on that substance. So, my dear friends, I'm afraid this negotiation procedure is not appropriate. Now, the third article defines the secret of the state. The state secret has already been described in Article 47 of the Penal Code, and, as you know, the courts identify it. The courts also get the opinion of relevant institutions before deciding what the state secret is, but it's not enough for you to get the opinion of the relevant institutions, you want the government to determine what the state secret should be, and therefore you bring this law. Dear friends, the real problem here is the State Secret Evaluation Board. The State Secret Evaluation Board is a political delegation, and they decide what the state secret is. Since that's the case, you've given the administration some kind of authority or abolition of punishment. You also provide the government with the authority to give him the information he wants, not to give him the information he doesn't want, so that's the decision you're making to the political committee. My dear friends, this is not appropriate. What were you saying when you came to power? You were for transparency, you were for accountability, you were for transparency. But now you want to improve the state secret by bringing in the concept of the state secret. But this is a balance. What's on a scale? There's freedom, there's democracy, there's information, there's management on the other side that doesn't accept control, there's uncontrollable governance, there's authoritarian administration. What should be the balance? The balance must be in favor of the right to gain knowledge, to be in favor of democracy, to be in favor of freedom. This bill of yours doesn't hold up, my dear friends. Now, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to address a couple of issues in the QA section. I didn't have this, but when it comes to it, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make that point. You're calling it a private meeting between the Prime Minister and the former Chief of Staff. You know this isn't a private conversation, so don't bother. Don't feel obligated to defend someone else, let them defend themselves. You know it's not a private meeting. If there was a private meeting, they would have gone with us to the grave. If there was a private meeting, Mr. Prime Minister, if he spoke, I would speak. What's this? That means it's not a private meeting. You know it, we know it, let's not fool each other, let's not make each other sad for nothing. There was also an argument over Article 8 of the article. Look, I present the 8th article to your attention. You keep saying, "I'm a lawyer, too." That's right, you're a lawyer. See what it says: information, documents and records of state secrets demanded by the courts may not be given in the context of the Council. Now, look, it may not be given, what do we have here? The government will give you what you want, not give you what you don't want. The government can't have an open-ended warrant like that. Second, how will the court decide when the government does not provide this information and documents? So you say, well, in our Constitution, we have that rule, and the way of justice is clear against all actions and procedures of the administration. He appealed to the administrative court, the court did not send relevant information or documents. On what grounds will the court decide whether it is a state secret or not? It falls into a jurisdiction that is not possible to use filene. That's the way it is, that's the way we have to accept it. Well, then, make a motion, and this matter is subject to the supervision of the administrative judiciary. Say, "It's as simple as that." I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0322par0594	Thank you. Since September 12th military coup, Turkey has been governed by the constitution of coup and legislation. In our country, where central powers are strengthened, military custody through the MGK channel, intelligence, judicial guardianship, and the wheel of bureaucracy, an authoritarian regime operates, in which there is, in fact, a lot of legislation on "the secret of the state," the law on "state secret" is issued, and the transfer of authority to a prime minister and a institution of its own is an understanding that destroys the will of the people. There is no such requirement in the EU legislation, as there is no such requirement, and the provisions that cannot be stopped by the ECHR and the use of basic rights and freedoms go to a violation of Article 90 of the Constitution. Parliamentary control is being completely eliminated, judicial control under the condition of permission is ignored, the right to person's rights and freedoms, the right to information is being rescinded. The concept of political democracy/Parliamentary regime is sought to be eradicated by understanding that protects the deep state, countergerilla/Gladio, coupger, gangistic understandings exist in TK, CMK and many special laws, which connect state secrets to the prime minister by expanding them and trying to protect them for a long time. Recently, the burning of thousands of villages has been seen as the secret of an unsolved murder. Freedom of thought and organisation is sought to be removed by uncertain concepts, such as the "public privacy zone." The secrets of the government/walking are sought to protect illegal actions, to be left at the mercy of their appointed bureaucrats/princes. While foreign policy, defence, finance, justice, economics are also in trouble with the EU's 30 chapters on fundamental issues, the arrangement will create new problems. Human rights, law and democracy have been intended to be removed from the bill. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 4 of the same nature, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The number of 287 rows in question is the fourth of the State Secrets Act. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan İkturk İlhan Demiröz Mahmut Tanal Bkent Tezcan Turgut Dibek Oktay Vural Alim Işım Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Ali Halaman Ali Öz Mustafa Kalaycı Is the commission in?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0323par0620	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0322par0621	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0324par0622	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0322par0623	I'm reading the reason: The state secret definition of this bill narrows the scope of the state secret, which is still in the legislation, such as the law of criminal reasoning and the law of learning. The bill considers secret information that can only harm the state's international relations or national security, while the state's secret is also part of the law, which can harm national defence and may pose a danger to the state's constitutional order and foreign relations, even if it does not harm national defence. If this bill becomes law, the definition of state secret in the CMC will be removed. If this bill becomes law, a committee will decide which secret information will be a state secret. This board, called the State Secret Protection Board, is chaired by the Chief Minister of Justice, Foreign Affairs, Internal Affairs and National Defence. The state secret is unclear how to control the decision of the protection board regarding whether it is a secret or not. This will lead to a cover-up of all the irregularities of the ruling AKP as a state secret. A scientific discovery can be protected as a state secret if it carries a property of national security. So that many scientific discoveries that can benefit the country can be concealed under the name of state secrets. An information protected as a state secret can be stopped from being a state secret because of its loss. The maximum time of protection as a state secret is considered 50 years. One information will not be protected as a state secret after 50 years after the Council decision was made. Many of the AKP's irregularities and corruption will not be studied, judged, and spoken for 50 years. According to the current provisions, the issue of a crime will not be kept secret from the courts, allegedly a state secret. As a matter of fact, the search at a place called the cosmic chamber was made according to this 125 clauses. According to the bill, however, information, documents, and records of state secrets requested by the courts may not be given to the Court by specifying the grounds. This means that the CMK provisions mentioned above will be neutralized. Thus, for example, the information related to the crime will never be discussed, since the talks of the current deputy chief of staff of the MIT in Oslo will be a state secret. In this way, as part of the current investigations conducted in private officials' courts, the prime minister and his working team will be closed to the courts. The agreement protocols, which include concessions to the terrorist organisation in talks between PKK-MIT representatives illegally under the Prime Minister's orders, will be overlooked by the public and the mighty Turkish Nation. Also, during telecom, Galataport, natural gas and energy tenders or privatisations, government representatives and representatives of domestic or foreign companies are asked to cover their information during talks. With this bill, it is clear that the national interests of the Republic of Turkey cannot be protected. When the bill is passed, the state of the Republic of Turkey will lose its property as a legal state. For reasons revealed above, the removal of this clause from the draft text would be a more accurate and good business for the future of our country and our nation. Ali İhsan İkturk, Zonguldak MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0325par0647	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 4 of the State Secret Bill. I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, as we all know, the state of the Republic of Turkey is a secular, democratic, social law state, which is clearly stated in Article 2 of our Constitution. The fundamental issues, such as the protection of the separation of men and the independence of the judiciary, the control of the operations and actions of the administration, transparency and accountability in public administration, the protection of citizens' right to information, the ability to maintain the balance of security-freedom are the basic, unbreakable conditions of the democratic and legal state principles, which find its clear expression in our Constitution's 2th Article. Unfortunately, in public administration, transparency, control of administration's transactions and actions, accountability, the Bill of State Secrets, which eliminates our citizens' right to information, is in no way in accordance with the rule of law, which is clearly expressed in Article 2 of our Constitution. Just as in the case of the MIT Law, which links the investigation and trial of those assigned to the Prime Minister this evening, the State Secret Bill of Law is being severely hit by another blow to our legal state, our democratic state principle. Dear lawmakers, as stated by the lawmakers, the Justice, Interior, Foreign Affairs, State Secret Evaluation Board, consisting of ministers of State Secret Evaluation is being created, the board's secretary is being carried out by the Deputy Prime Minister, and this board is being convened at the request of the Prime Minister. This council under Prime Minister's absolute control will decide which information and documents are state secrets. The documents adopted as a state secret in the Prime Minister's office will be kept out of control for as long as 50 years, for a period of half a century. Those who reveal this document and information will face severe punishments. Not only that, but the documents that have been made as a Prime Minister's secret will not be submitted to the courts, even if they are wanted by the courts. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that the decision of the Council to submit state secret documents to the court is in conflict with universal law, the basic principles of our Constitution, and Article 125 of the Penal Code. Documents containing a criminal phenomenon cannot be kept secret against the court as a state secret. The provision of the Penal Code, which states, violates the open sentence of Article 125 of the Law. It seems that with this arrangement, the government secret is covered up by crimes committed on one side, on the other hand, covering up new crimes being committed, camouflaged. The only man the prime minister wants to build is the model of the despotic management model, which is preparing a legal cover, legal infrastructure, a legal arrangement that completely eliminates transparency, accountability in all state affairs, which is throwing dynamite at the bottom of our legal state, our democratic state. No sense of government, no sense of power that claims to be a democracy, should take refuge in such an arrangement, should hide behind such an arrangement. The management models, state models, in any way as a democratic state, can not be described as a state of law, it is unacceptable. We, therefore, see the fact that the ruling of the Justice and Development Party, which claims to be a target of advanced democracy, is hiding behind such a legal arrangement as this certainly is a clear contradiction, an open contradiction. Therefore, we ask that the fourth article of the bill be removed from the bill, and we salute the great assembly.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0326par0657	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0327par0659	The decision is enough, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit07spe0326par0660	I will submit the clause to your votes, but I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0326par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 123th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of Article 4 of the 287 rows of the Bill of Law. Now, I'm going to re-offer the item to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide and the matter is accepted. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. There are two motions on Article 5 of the same nature; I read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 5th draft of State Secret Code, number 287. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan İkturk Ali Serindağ Turgut Dibek Bulent Tezcan İlhan Demiröz Oktay Vural Alim Işım Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Ali Öz S. Nevzat Korkmaz Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0328par0024	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0326par0025	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0329par0026	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0326par0027	Mr. Vural, am I reading the motive?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0330par0028	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0326par0029	Motive... The state secret definition of this bill narrows the scope of the state secret, which is still in the legislation, such as the law of criminal reasoning and the law of learning. The bill considers secret information that can only harm the state's international relations or national security, while the state's secret is also part of the law, which can harm national defence and may pose a danger to the state's constitutional order and foreign relations, even if it does not harm national defence. If this bill becomes law, the definition of state secret in the CMC will be removed. If this bill becomes law, a committee will decide which secret information will be a state secret. This board, called the State Secret Protection Board, is chaired by the Prime Minister, consisting of Ministers of Justice, Foreign Affairs, Internal Affairs and National Defence. The state secret is unclear how to control the decision of the protection board regarding whether it is a secret or not. This will lead to a cover-up of all the irregularities of the ruling Justice and Development Party as state secrets. A scientific discovery can be protected as a state secret if it carries a property of national security. So that many scientific discoveries that can benefit the country can be concealed under the name of state secrets. An information protected as a state secret can be stopped from being a state secret because of its loss. The maximum time of protection as a state secret is considered 50 years. One information will not be protected as a state secret after 50 years after the Council decision was made. Many irregularities and corruption committed by the Justice and Development Party will not be studied, judged and spoken for 50 years.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0331par0041	Mr. President, it's written there, it doesn't say the Justice and Development Party. According to the current provisions, the issue of a crime will not be kept secret from the courts, allegedly a state secret. As a matter of fact, the search at a place called the cosmic chamber was made according to this 125 clauses. According to the bill, however, information, documents, and records of state secrets requested by the courts may not be given to the Court by specifying the grounds. This means that the CMK provisions mentioned above will be neutralized. Thus, for example, the information related to the crime will never be discussed, since the talks of the current undersecretary of the myth in Oslo will be a state secret, as the current undersecretary of the prime minister. In this way, as part of the current investigations conducted in private officials' courts, the prime minister and his working team will be closed to the courts. The agreement protocols, which include concessions to the terrorist organisation in talks between PKK-MIT representatives illegally under the Prime Minister's orders, will be overlooked by the public and the mighty Turkish Nation. Also, Telekom galaport, during gas and energy tenders or privatisations, has been asked to cover its information during talks between government representatives and representatives of domestic or foreign companies. With this bill, it is clear that the national interests of the Republic of Turkey cannot be protected. When the bill is passed, the state of the Republic of Turkey will lose its property as a legal state. For reasons revealed above, the removal of this clause from the draft text would be a more accurate and beneficial work for the future of our country and for the future of our nation.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0332par0052	Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0333par0054	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 5th Amendment. I salute you all. Dear MPs, the duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is to act under the rule of law under Article 7 of the Constitution. Our nation has assigned us to carry out legislation. Lawmakers of the ruling party are responsible for solving the country's problems because they have taken state authority, the state authority necessary to address problems. Our main role as opposition party is to bring public problems to the attention of the ruling party and to criticize the ruling party's policies. Therefore, this is a fundamental process that is expected to continue in a non-conflict, non-violent process, with no conflict, and its process. However, Mr. AKP Deputy Director Canikli, before this bill of law was discussed, I was forced to join the CHP Group and the conflicting process, which I didn't want, even though I didn't want, which I didn't want, when I spoke on the stand when this bill was being discussed. I'd like to point out that I'm deeply sorry about this photo. Because I don't think any of us, as MP, have the right to take this process of legislature in a conflicting and hurtful manner. However, it is the duty of all lawmakers, above all else, more and more of the duties of the ruling party MPs, especially the members of the group. I wouldn't dream of hurting or upsetting any of the fellow lawmakers, but I say I stand by the words I said in the political struggle to the end. I'm sorry that I've been left in this frame of discussion, forced to be a participant. I think, I hope Mr. Canikli is sorry too. So I think we should all be more careful not to have these kind of pictures. My dear friends described these talks as private talks, if I'm not mistaken, with former Chief of Staff Yaşar Buyukanit. I have here a document dated July 16, 2009, which Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Cemil Cicek has submitted to me on behalf of the Prime Minister at that time. Mr. Cemil Cicek says in response to his motion on behalf of the Prime Minister: "Mr. Prime Minister Dolmabahçe has discussed the issues of the state and the country in his meeting with the Chief of Staff in Dolmabahçe. Mr. Prime Minister, a soldier who has served on state levels in or informal times, has been discussing the country's basic domestic and external issues with civil authorities, sharing the country's negotiations, conveying the necessary, initiative and instructions to relevant authorities and authorities and authorities. It is not customary for the prime ministers to share the content of their current and informal talks with the state and the country on all grounds. So, Mr. Secretary, that meeting, as you pointed out, wasn't a private conversation. I asked the Prime Minister that question. Of course, I'd like to share another discrepancy here with the House immediately. Mr. Cemil Cicek, even though he was not present at the meeting and the parties were committed to taking the contents of that meeting to the grave, how and where did Mr. Speaker of Parliament, then Deputy Prime Minister Cemil Cicek, find that the issues of state and country were discussed between the two of them? I asked him that question, but I haven't heard back yet, it's been three years. I've given you five questions about that, too. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Secretary, you've been misled or lacking in information. Thank you, guys.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0334par0062	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions of the same nature on the 6th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 6 of the State Secrets Act of 287 rows in question. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan İkturk Ali Serindağ Turgut Dibek Mahmut Tanal İlhan Demiröz Oktay Vural S. Nevzat Unafraid Scholar Light Ali Öz Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0335par0080	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0334par0081	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0336par0082	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0334par0083	Yes, it's Oktay Vural, Izmir MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0337par0085	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, of course, we, the lawmakers, are here to present a statement. As Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk has just stated, we've made a statement regarding the Dolmabahçe talks, Mr. Secretary -- sitting there on behalf of the government -- that this is a private meeting. Here's the question motion I submitted on June 18, 2009, asking to be answered by Mr. Ba396şbakan. My question motion is exactly as follows: On May 4, 2007, media reported various news on the content of the meeting held by Mr. Prime Minister and Chief of Staff Mr. Yasar Buyukanit. Mr. Prime Minister, if Mr. Buyukanit explains those things, I'll explain them. He used his statement, and Mr. Buyukanit stated that the meeting was a state business. Now that it's been stated that the meeting is a government matter, I'm asking questions. Now, Mr. Cemil Cicek says this is government business. You call it private business. Which one is it?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0338par0089	Private meeting, private conversation.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0337par0090	Which one is it?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0338par0091	They're both true.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0339par0092	How are they both true?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0337par0093	I mean, which one's true? So when you're answering these questions here, you have to take the Great National Assembly of Turkey seriously. Really, if it's government business, why would it go all the way to the grave? If it's government business, why wasn't this discussed in the Council of Ministers? Why haven't the ministers been informed of this, the Secretary of State of Defense? So, all of this suggests that the secret of the Dolmabahçe talks is still unopened, and I'm probably taking that very seriously as a National Secretary of Defense, about the private conversation you just expressed about the outcome. You are the National Defence Minister of the Republic of Turkey. If private matters have been discussed in a private meeting as Secretary of State, then you know what these private matters are. What are these? Is there a file war, is there a war of knowledge? Who's using leverage on who? Such a state administration is not in the Turkish state tradition. If this is a matter of state business, shouldn't the Secretary of State and the Council of Ministers, who are politically responsible, be aware of it? In fact, this contradiction suggests that Mr. Secretary of State has stated that there have been specific issues discussed in this meeting. He knows. I don't think he talks without knowing, I don't think he talks without knowledge. Because if it was a government job, he'd have to know. Because the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Turkey is responsible for national defence against the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now that they're a member of the Council of Ministers, maybe there are traces of this mystery, maybe they have documents somewhere, maybe they have CDs somewhere, or what they want to be shut down? That's what these people need to know. What leverage has been used against whom a minister of national defence would say, "Special work." I think we all have a right to know, dear lawmakers. Clearly, this mystery has to be removed. In that respect, I took the oath on this occasion. Here is the answer to the written question motion that was just submitted. In that respect, Mr. Secretary, if you have to respond to this particular quality speech, perhaps, I suggest that you share these matters with the Turkish Grand National Assembly in a closed session motion immediately. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0340par0103	Thank you. Oğuz Oyan, İzmir MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0341par0106	Mr. President, the bill we're talking about is a bill of escape from a social audit, first of all. If there is social control in a democracy, the more a society is open to social control, the more democratic it is, the more democratic it is. With this bill, do you, by any chance, narrow down or expand the concept of the state secret? If you were narrowing it down, you'd be opening a wider place for democracy. However, by making the concept of the state secret very vague and giving it to the initiative of a board -- which is four ministers from the start of that board -- you sign a bill that fully expands the scope. So you're limiting democracy. "Democracy" is not a thornless rose garden, but a thorny rose garden of democracy. But if it has thorns, it has democracy. If you remove the criticism, if you remove social control from the system, then you don't leave democracy, you don't leave any room for the democratic tree to grow, you don't leave any land. Thus, anything that is not open to the control of democratic and mass organisations of society and the organised communities here, under the veil of the state secret, will narrow democracy. Second: The name of this law is the State Secret Law, but it is in fact the law of government secrets. Government secrets are the law because no matter what you look at, we're talking about a mechanism that's completely under the control of execution. It was, in its first form, and in its first government bill. Gene was the Prime Minister and four ministers, but there was one board. So, the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister and four undersecretaries were similar structures. Now, it seems that the field of secrets that the government needs to keep for its own actions is expanding. So the government needs a law like this because it needs to hide more things. This is certainly not the law of following some norms imposed on us by the European Union. This is a bill that is intended to be sold to those environments. That, of course, is enough for them. There may be a bill they can call you. Thirdly, it is a bill limiting freedom of rights. This is especially clear in Article 8 of this article. I can't get into details. Fourth: It is a bill designed to lock government secrets behind a 50-year curtain in a country where private living space is restricted, where publicised. So all of the government's economic interests and all of its economic interests, all of its political dialogues, are in there -- some government out there with the organisations -- are concerned about keeping all of this under certain cover. Of course, there are other concerns here. You see how the Deputy Prime Minister just showed up here, you can't do this with 20 people... you're going to stop and bring in the basic law on one side, you're going to limit our right of speech, and you're going to argue with the democracy of the deadbeater in five minutes. My dear friend, this is totalitarianism, this is the desire to hide behind the new law shields. You will be a secret against society as a government, but you will continue to be obscene to the outside forces. Turkish Prime Minister Wikileaks is a hostage in the hands of America. The Prime Minister of Turkey is a hostage in the hands of Germany because of the Lighthouse documents. You can always use these secrets against these forces, spread them out in public, but in Turkey, you will now conceal their publication behind a state secret. It's not a democracy. This AKP democracy is nothing more than laying stones in the path of theocratic totalitarianism. This bill is not on the path of democracy, but on the way back to the Middle Ages. We don't accept that kind of government. We'll vote no for that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0342par0117	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions of the same nature on the 7th article, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 7 of the State Secrets Act of 287 rows in question. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan İkturk Ali Serindağ İlhan Demirözüs Bkent Tezcan Turgut Dibek Mahmut Tanal of Bursa Aydın Cırklareli Oktay Vural S. Nevzat Korkmaz Mustafa Kalaycı Ali İlm Ali Öz Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0343par0136	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0342par0137	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0344par0138	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0342par0139	Sinan Okan on the motion, Iğdır MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0345par0142	Dear President, I stand before you to discuss our motion on Article 7 of State Secret Act 287. There's been a claim in the press for a few days. In this claim, the talks held in Oslo are said to be a trial of as many as a thousand officers fighting to finish the PKK in the southeast, in the agreement between the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and the AKP (AKP). So far, the government hasn't made a sound about it. I'm asking our Reverend Secretary, are you going to deny this matter, or are you going to take this law out tonight and make it a state secret? We sat at the table with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) during the talks in Oslo, but we will not judge a thousand of our officers as war criminals, we expect the Minister to say so.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0346par0144	There's cops, too.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0345par0145	Of course, you have to promise me that we will not judge our officers and police as war criminals in the wake of negotiations with the PKK, including the special operations police. You gave it to me today; you didn't; we won't be able to talk about it tomorrow. Why can't we talk? Because it can also be your state secret. How's he gonna get in? Mr. Prime Minister will say: "We cannot discuss this matter, my friends, it is a state secret. So, if this law is passed, you will be able to do whatever you want; your negotiations with the Kurdistan Workers' Party can be a state secret; your negotiations with Israel, your trade with Israeli companies can be a state secret. Therefore, this law, in Turkey, is not usually brought as the law of steps forward. ▪ No more laws are being made under the name of democracy. ▪ Laws are being made under the name of protecting the government, extending the government's power further. Of course, not before September 12th, but yes, the workers must also share their views on the matter in the press. What did you say at the September 12th referendum? You said more democracy, you said democracy, there'd be nothing left to talk about. So, what are you trying to do with this State Secret Law that you've just brought in? Let's not talk about anything, let's not talk about anything that's going to touch us, and we're going to escape power after a while, but you're saying that you're going to try to guarantee the process after we escape. On what grounds, of course? That's one thing to explain. On what grounds are you trying to do the secret of the state under the control of such a political adult? What the independent judiciary has to do, what a non-political-adjusted institution that constitutes the state should do, what the courts should do now is under the influence of you political adults. Your government has a deputy prime minister in charge of crying. There was a alleged assassination.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0347par0148	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0345par0149	In the military's kitchen, you collected all the people that peeled potatoes and onions one night. For God's sake, one of you get out of here and say, "This is the result of this assassination. Why don't you come out here and we'd like to know? Indeed, was there an assassination of the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of crying? Did you have one?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0348par0150	He wasn't curious, but...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0345par0151	In this country, you take people with anonymous tips and black out their future. In this country, you can call the head of the government a terrorist and lock him up. Potatoes, onion peelers, for days on TV for assassination of the Deputy Prime Minister. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you're playing with dignity in front of the nation.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0349par0154	He made them independent judgment, we didn't make them.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0345par0155	If you have any dignity, with the dignity of those people...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0349par0157	Dignity!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0350par0158	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0351par0159	Who's dignity and who are you?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0352par0160	Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0353par0162	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion to remove the 7th article from the text of the article. I salute you all. My dear friends, in this article, it is stated that the Court will decide that documents that have actually lost the quality of state secrets should not be a secret. Actually, I explained the nature of the board at first. The Council is the Prime Minister. So, it's a law of your own to cook. Everything... the board will make a proposal to the board to decide what should be a state secret, whether or not it should be a state secret, so the Prime Minister will decide. And if they're state secrets, they're the Council again, but therefore the Prime Minister will decide. And on the grounds that the state has lost its secret, the Prime Minister will again decide that it is not a state secret, so is there any defenceable aspect of this law in the democratic state of law? We've been telling it all along, so let Turkey be protected just as the state secret is protected in other democratic countries. While state secrets are being maintained there, people's right to information or other rights are not violated, rather, they are fully secured. On the other hand, my dear friends, the 5th article of economic secrets has been released in the Commission, but the 5th article of Article 5 has a declaration of bilateral and multilateral agreements that are not published in the official newspaper. That's a very dangerous statement. Especially the Sykes-Picot Agreement, Mr. Secretary... this agreement, as you all know, is a secret agreement between England and France on 16 May 1916... that envisions the sharing of Turkey's lands in the Middle East. It was done with the approval of Russia. After the October 1917 Revolution, Lenin revealed the contents of this agreement to the world. Again, an example of the invasion of Iraq, which was alleged to have been made between Mr. Abdullah Gul and US Secretary of State Mr. Colin Powell, which was later announced in the Vatan newspaper on 2 April 2003 and later announced to Sedat Ergin. The newest, fresh sample is about radar in the sphere. Now, there's no one who doesn't know that this radar was originally set up as a result of an agreement with the United States. So I gave the Minister, the Secretary of State, I think, over 15 questions about this. These questions are all motions, Mr. Secretary, which have been passed over by the State bureaucrats, both answers and my motions for questions. You didn't answer any of them right. You've given me answers that conflict with the statements of both the American authorities and from time to time by Turkish officials that don't match them. Now, look, this base was transferred to NATO at the NATO Summit in Chicago, where the last president attended. So when did this happen? It just happened a month ago. So, when was this base set up? It wasn't built a month ago, it was built a long time ago. I ask the Minister, what was the status of this radar base before it was transferred to NATO? Explain this, please, why don't you? Explain this. My dear friends, a secret business is not run by the government. In the name of democratisation and liberation, it's a contradiction that a political government, which talks about the coup and accountability of gangsters, has brought this law, a typical example of such authoritarian governance, and imposed it with the power of the majority. Therefore, your claim to democratisation and liberation is unacceptable. I thought the state would be democratized, the individual would be liberated, my friends! Does this law have the democratization of the state, the freeing of the individual? My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0354par0172	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The votes of the substances in the first section are complete. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter includes 8 to 13th Articles, including temporary 1 and 2. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Turgut Dibek is a Cyclarian MP.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0355par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I stand before you to express our thoughts on chapter two. First of all, I salute you. Of course, we'll be even happier if our friends actually listen to what we have to say. Now, all of the law, chapter one, is over. In fact, the law is not much, it's a 13-point, or rather a 11-point bill. It's a substance, actually, not a lot. I mean, there's no question that other substances matter within the law, but the very essence of the law is the 4th Amendment, which is the Council, which is always mentioned, which will define the state secret. I mean, there's a board of four ministers in the prime minister's presidency, and that's the bottom line, the rest of the stuff's a bit of a theme to me. Now, we've talked about this in the Commission, dear friends. Of course, this is being criticised by us, our friends from the ruling party, the MPs, insisted: What if you don't trust Mr. Prime Minister now, and you don't trust the ministers at work? I mean, are they going to wrong the people of this country who have been chosen? And so, of course, I gave some examples in my speech of this expression, and of course, we want to trust the Prime Minister. So the prime minister of a country should be reliable, the prime minister of a country -- as we call it -- should be a reliable person. I said, but dear friends, not very much, I came up with three or four examples, and I said them in the commission. Now I said, "Take our place, sit here -- I can tell you right now -- sit here, we'll sit here, think like us, what do you say?" Look, in October 2009, we had an incident in Habur. Of course, those who follow that process know that the terrorists have come from the camps to Habur. You know how they come, you know their clothes, you know their welcome there, you know what happened, you know the infinitive in Turkey. It's all over the place, it's all over the place, it's a group meeting. At the group meeting, the Prime Minister said, "Is it possible not to hope for this painting? I mean, there's even more. It's a pleasant development," he said. Now, not too much, fellas, two, two and a half years, so starting at the end, I've come up with a few things, and I'd like to share them with you. The recent trial on those terrorists has been concluded, a very promising development, is it not possible, that it is not possible not to be hopeful. You know, friends, the court committee, who have given ten years to those who came to the judge in response to the Prime Minister's statement? Why? Being a member of a terrorist organization, propaganda for a terrorist organization... Now, a painting like this... so if the Prime Minister of this country makes that statement in front of that image, we'll all be confused, my dear friends. So, let's get back to... it's been said again, before this Oslo thing, and I've said it a few times on this bench because I care, and I want to trust Mr. Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0356par0187	Don't you dare, Mr. Turgut, don't you dare!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0355par0188	So we all know that before this referendum, Mr. Prime Minister used the most nationalist rhetoric, the most nationalist rhetoric. Oslo was new, it wasn't in those dates, but it had a smell, it was public speaking. That's what we've asked you, and you say so, but there are some reports that you've been negotiating with this terrorist organization. It's very clear that Mr. Prime Minister's remarks have made us almost equal with the PKK. Here we are, the tail of the Kandil. I'm talking about the Prime Minister's remarks. Friends, I don't need to remind you of those attributes, so that's what they're saying. They've had their words. What did we meet next? We ran into some Oslo talks. Who went there, how they went there... I mean, the one who talked to the terrorist organization, the one who talked to them. What did the Prime Minister say after they came out, he said, "Yes, I did." He said, "What's wrong with that?" He said, "That's what he said." And I say, a trusted Prime Minister, dear friends, wouldn't talk like that at that time. I said it again from this stand, when the Arbitration Act was being discussed here, and I said it from this stand. The Prime Minister has a speech at the opening of the University of Marmara, and I think it's a celebration. Do you remember what the Prime Minister said in that speech? He said: "We are the heirs of different groups of beliefs making their own judgments, and hopefully, in the coming days -- that's the point -- we'll be the vanguard of this. Now, look, I talked about this here, and I said, "Now, the Prime Minister of this country -- friends -- is he in a position to be in a position to not know or to not know that the legal judgments of people, the beliefs of people, the gender of the citizens of this country would be any different? Or do we apply universal law equally to all, in accordance with the principles set by our Constitution and other laws? Now, this is what the Prime Minister of this country is talking about, dear friends. Oh, now, there's another incident, one that's very close, about this MIT Law. It's very important to me, too, because I said it in the Commission, because it was important to understand the Prime Minister's logic or the tides when he was running this country. You know, when the process of Oslo talks came up, there was a judicial action, a warrant for arrest, about those who left, about Mr. Hakan Fidan and the others, and they were called to testify, and you made the law here in three days. Before that law came out, the Prime Minister used the following phrases to defend that law, and he said: "I don't waste the chosen ones on the appointed ones. Now, who did he say that for? Hakan Fidan and others, here is the Sun of Disaster. It was sent by me. I'm the chosen one in this country. I'm the Prime Minister of this country. I am the man chosen by the people's votes. He also recently said: "Call me if you will, and take me if you will." To whom? To prosecutors. I expect the same from the Prime Minister of this country: I don't want to waste the chosen ones on the appointed. I expect the same from the Prime Minister for our eight arrested MP friends.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0357par0195	He said it, he said it.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0355par0196	I mean, what did he say about them? The work of the judge. He said, the work of the judge...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0357par0197	That's what he said.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0355par0198	He did. He said: "The work of the judge. Why did you nominate him? He's not saying that friends are the chosen ones. Hakan Fidan is not the chosen one, Hakan Fidan is the appointed one, but the will to send Hakan Fidan is chosen. If you're protecting him, if you're protecting yourself, you're protecting the people who were elected by the people's votes, and you're protecting the MPs. Then I'll trust that Prime Minister, dear friends. The prime minister of this country went out and attended the AKP's youth council meeting -- you know, with the conference -- gave a speech saying: "Be followers of your hatred, do not give up your hatred. People, like everyone else, we thought, rational, reasonable people, what does the Prime Minister of this country mean??"
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0358par0201	Don't forget we have a grudge, too.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0355par0202	Dear friends, if there are any such words, then, look, I've made it clear from here that, look, I'm going to make it work.... Because, look, to whom do we give the authority for this state secret? We give the Prime Minister plus 4 ministers. Who are they? The executive body of this country. I mean, who's going to benefit the most from the fact that the documents are classified as state secrets? I'm taking advantage of it? This country that's going to benefit, it's going to work for them. Who? It's going to work for the executive because they're the ones who run Turkey. The Dolmabahçe incident that often comes up in questions this afternoon. I didn't see him. The Prime Minister did. Who did he meet with? He met with the Chief of Staff. If this information is to be taken into the secret of the state, it will be taken by the administration. That's why you're giving such broad authority to run it. The part about the trial -- I don't agree with what the Minister said -- you'll see, sir, that the courts are suing for this... not at all. None of that will ever happen. My dear friends, then, look, someone has to tell the Prime Minister. Mr. Arinc isn't here, Mr. Secretary of Defense is here. So he has to say, Mr. Prime Minister, but you call and say, "Look, people don't trust you either, so somebody's going to say this, so if you don't, then we're going to say it. When I tell you, my dear friends, neither will you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0359par0207	Thank you. Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who asked for the National Movement Party Group to speak on the second part. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0360par0211	Mr. President, I'm here to present the views of the National Movement Party on the second chapter. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, we are talking about a bill that the AKP government has brought before parliament to lay a lid on administrative, political and economic collapses, leaving no fingerprints behind during its ten-year journey into history. We're dealing with a bill not only about the future, but about the past, designed to break things from the courts, from the courts. The government of the law, the transparent state, the justice they came to call it, has begun to calculate that they will remain in power forever, like any absolute power. The explanation is that the AKP is on the verge of its own end and Abbas is a passenger. By pushing even a little bit of his party's border, those who play the role of brotherhood, mastery of Turkish politics must carefully calculate where they come from and where they take themselves and their country. Let me remind you, it's going to be hard to listen, bear with it, but you'll have to bear with it. If a lesson is learned, I'm sure they'll be doing themselves and Turkey a favor. Dear lawmakers have been replacing the oppressors for centuries after yesterday's oppressed have taken power. Isn't it a sign that most people confuse justice with revenge? Can you speak of the legitimacy of those who do not submit their powers to the order of justice and who do not know where to stand? How can these people be different from cruel pharaohs, Abu Jahils? Yesterday, they had done these things. Is it possible that the rulers who persecuted the people who were in the trust of God, when the day comes for them, when the day returns, that they should beg for justice and mercy, especially for those who claim that they did it in the name of Islam, the religion of righteousness, forgiveness and peace, would cry out in the name of God without shame? Gentlemen, you use the privilege and power that people entrust to you without account, and unfortunately, you're becoming more and more ruthless, and the more you do this, the more you lose your legitimacy, the more you gallop to the end of fate for all the oppressors. Wherever you go, of course, it's your business, but wherever you go, you're dragging our country and our nation from their skirts to a dark end. In the name of our cry, our rebellion, the nation, that's why. Dear lawmakers, the state of law is also a transparent state. Trust in the state requires that the work and transactions be known and supervised by the citizens as well as by the law. The more work remains dark in the realm of government, the more doubt and insecurity, the more unlawful it becomes, the more it destroys the state, the poorer it is. On the other hand, there is an admission in the government, which is not very moot. Everyone in the state sector, especially the management department, knows that what he needs to know, he needs to know. Otherwise, information and information collection activities that sustain the state will also be interrupted. I mean, it's a bilateral issue. Transparency doesn't mean that everything is obvious, but the discovery of the baby doesn't mean that. I know the opening of this issue is disrupting your chemistry, but we, however, have to discuss this important betrayal as opposition. Oslo negotiations have fallen all the way to the Internet. There are many things in the reports, but the issue is very important: Hakan Fidan, the prime minister's special representative in those talks, promised one of the leaders of the European representative of the PKK, five years ago that the ministry's rural organization will be annulled, which will first be transferred to governorships and then to municipalities, he says. Then I must ask: who did your government promise five years ago? Number two: Should the Metropolitan Law, which frames the state system that you keep secret, be evaluated in this scope? Three: Is it a crime to discuss, assess, and discuss the Oslo talks tomorrow, as well as the state secret? I wanted to ask you these questions while we're on the subject of secrets. Public opinion is waiting for answers, first-hand. Not just these questions, of course, but our people are curious about Dolmabahçe secrets. Our nation is curious about the secrets behind the developments that have revealed Habur. The Lighthouse is curious about its secrets. He's curious about the ATV-Morning sale, the secrets behind it, the follow-up you're doing under the name Telekom PETKIM. He wants to know what negotiations are based on the missile shield system you placed in the sphere. He wants to know behind the scenes of your protocols between Armenia and Turkey. We can ask hundreds of these questions. The AKP government will be referred to as a number of years of secrets in the public conscience, but we, the National Movement Party, will not only remember, we will cover up all the questions you've tried to cover up, but we will certainly, certainly bring the responsible before the judiciary. No matter what laws you take out, there will be compensation, and we pledge it to our nation from this stand. I salute the Lord God's blessing to those who have robbed this country and robbed it of its sovereignty, its future, its integrity, its integrity, its sons, its blood, its blood cut bread, its terrorist, its bargain, its honour and its dignity, and its hatred against the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0361par0224	Thank you. There's no further demands.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0362par0226	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0361par0227	The question-answer process will take 15 minutes.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0362par0228	Mr. President, the speaker has just insulted our party by targeting our government.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0361par0229	What did he say and insult, Mr. Canikli?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0363par0230	What did I say?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0362par0231	For example, in the name of...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0364par0232	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0365par0233	Dear Private, please...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0366par0234	Sir, bring in the reports; I've made general descriptions, bring in the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0367par0235	You don't fall for cruelty.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0368par0236	If I gave you my every opinion, would it be in public here?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0369par0237	Dear Canikli...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0368par0238	Okay?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0369par0239	Mr. Canikli, please come in.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0370par0241	Sir, if you'd asked for the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0369par0242	I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0371par0245	Thank you, Mr. President. We really need to keep the common sense, the quiet. I know it's the ruling party, and I know it's his responsibility, and we're trying to stick with it. But as it was just now, there's no need to be in a constant, challenging approach. We've always said, I mean, there will be criticism, of course, but just now, the word "Zazilim" is...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0372par0247	I wish you'd read my speeches.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0371par0248	Let me... look, there's no concrete event in it. I'll get out of here, no matter what period it is...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0372par0249	No, no, no, no.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0371par0250	If you'll excuse me, I mean, look, I'll prove everything.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0373par0251	But isn't it cruel to shake the head of a thirteen-year-old boy who took the bus in Mugla, if you love God?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0371par0252	I mean, I can give you so many examples of cruelty and cruelty. Look, let me give you an example, just a simple example.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0373par0253	Isn't it cruel to have students locked up for 24 hours because Bozkurt made his mark?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0371par0254	Which is cruel, which is cruel, and which is robbing the resources of this country? I'm going to say something concrete, I'm not talking nonsense, I'm not talking nonsense.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0373par0255	It's concrete, I'm just stating the facts.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0371par0256	Look, privatisation...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0374par0257	Okay, answer Telecom and Petkim.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0371par0258	In Turkey... there's been talk of robbing, there's been talk of being robbed.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0374par0259	Give an answer to Telecom, and to PETKIM.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0371par0260	The privatisation began in 1986 in Turkey. Between 1986 and 2002, 174 state-owned economies were privatised and sold, along with their inclusion of 16 years. There's a bank in there, there's a GSM company, there's all 174 of them. How much is the price of the sale?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0374par0261	Look, tell me about Telekom and PETKIM.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0375par0262	Isn't it cruel to say so, Nurettin Bey?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0371par0263	Please, Mr. Vural. Look, how much is the sale price, I'm telling you all, I'm giving you numbers. Look, I'm sorry you guys talked so much, but I'm giving you a number.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0375par0265	Isn't it cruel to give officers 3 plus 3 percent?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0371par0266	The total number that has been privatized in 16 years is $7.7 billion of these 174 companies, half as privatized as it was during the AK PARTY, 85 companies... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...from the sale of $32 billion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0376par0269	Well, you're a book-teller, Nurettin Bey. You're comparing it to a number?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0371par0270	175 businesses, $7.7 billion, 85 businesses, $32 billion.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0376par0271	For God's sake, what's the point?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0377par0272	Mr. Korkmaz, please... Thank you, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0378par0274	Nurettin Bey, we're waiting for an answer to what happened before Telekom was privatized to Lebanon, Mr. Prime Minister, to the company that bought Telekom?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0379par0275	175 businesses, $7.7 billion...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0377par0276	Mr. Canikli, I understand. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0380par0277	It doesn't suit you to pick apples and pears.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0381par0278	Let him explain, what he's seen... isn't that our right? Don't you want to know?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0382par0279	We evaluate the country's resources, its resources, its resources, and we offer them to the public. That's how privatisations are done.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0380par0280	If only you'd made a nice statement, Mr. Nurettin, you'd have taken two minutes.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0382par0281	Therefore, there was no investment before 2002.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0383par0282	Mr. Canikli, please.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0382par0283	It's just that these people were watching nothing on the news but their robberies. The banks were privatised by the PM's phone at night, and the price was being given, but now the privatisations...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0383par0284	Mr. Canikli, would you please leave the bench?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0384par0285	Here comes Mr. Salim, just so you know.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0382par0286	It's made with cameras, it's being followed, that's the difference.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0384par0287	Look, here comes Mr. Salim.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0382par0288	Who is cruel and cruel? I'll leave it to you. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0385par0291	Behold! the eyes and the ears bear witness against the wrong-doers, and they are written down. The TRT doesn't publish them, but the eyes and ears bear witness.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0386par0297	Yeah, what else is there to say? No. The question-answer process will be done. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0387par0300	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how many victims have the Turkish Armed Forces given in total since 1 January 2012 in the fight against terrorism? Do you think PKK-MIT talks have any effect on this picture? Two: Last week, a social networking site on Abdullah Ocalan's behalf was sent a message that if security, freedom, and political promises were fulfilled, he would be able to take the guerrilla off the mountain in two months. Who does this site belong to? Is the government in control of this site? These words, these messages, are published on these websites by what means? What measures do your government have? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0388par0305	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0389par0306	Thank you, thank you. The question to the Minister is: "This law narrows down the right to information, contradicts the existing Constitution. Like the Constitution, it now travels to the province and country to change the Constitution. Now, wouldn't it be possible for you to take your time in the Constitution and make this law according to the constitution you've changed? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0390par0309	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0391par0310	Thank you, Mr. President. In the law of possession without prejudice to foreigners, the Minister said we would sell property in the interest of the country. Is it possible for this bill to be passed by the government's secret, considering the question of a place being sold? Another question: Do you intend to redefine the legal state and democracy if the State Secret Act is passed? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0392par0314	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0393par0315	Thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary very clearly and clearly: If, in the name of the Prime Minister's special representative, a delegation under the name of another delegation is under the arbitration of a foreign state, which is contrary to the Constitution and the law of today, is it possible that the adoption of the request for autonomy, the acceptance of the request for autonomy, the establishment of Kurdistan, would stop the statute of limitations, or would this be the case of the state secret of the state, which constitutes a crime in terms of the state? How's this going to be prosecuted from now on?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0392par0317	Thank you. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0394par0319	Thank you, Reverend President. Dear Minister, I just asked you from the stand. Many newspapers have brought up this claim, but no one has responded. Is there such an agreement with the PKK in the third country's vault? Is it true that our anti-terrorism soldiers and police are going to be charged with war crimes, and are they going to be a state secret in a few hours? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0395par0322	Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0396par0323	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, now, in Article 4 of the bill, the secretary will be acting as Undersecretary of the Prime Minister, regarding the information on these documents. Now, I'm curious, of course, that's not in the law: hundreds, thousands of documents, information from ministries, private institutions, from many places to the next Prime Minister. Now, we're talking about four people, except for the Prime Minister. There'll be a preliminary examination. Now, who's going to read all these documents, all this information, and who's going to look into it? If there are hundreds of people needed there, I wonder if there's going to be any more secrets. So what do you think of this? Mr. Prime Minister or ministers, will you sit down for days, including you, to read those documents, to examine them? There's nothing in the law.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0395par0325	Dear Private...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0397par0326	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is it cruel for a group of vice presidents to pretend they don't know and mislead us even though they know they're not using such a permit? Isn't it cruel for a group of vice presidents to leave this job unresolved and then say, "Is it not cruel that all parties who are arrested should not attend meetings, even though they are signed under the text, should they not agree?" He said, "Let's buy the possibility of not agreeing here, but when the agreement is reached, he finds an excuse and then he leaves it unresolved, and then he says, "It's a method that has no side effects?" Is it cruel that these people, the children of the children of these MPs, turn around every day waiting for my father to come out and not stand behind his signature again?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0398par0329	Thank you. Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0399par0331	Mr. Minister, in Article 7 of the bill, the President appreciates the nature of information, documents and records of the presidency. In accordance with Article 105, which regulates the irresponsibility of the President of the Constitution, the Constitutional Court does not apply to the judicial authorities for the decisions and orders signed by the President. You have said that the judicial path towards documents which have just been taken into the state secret is clear. Now, the president has a single decision, according to the Constitution, and according to Article 105, it is irresponsible. No judicial body, including the Constitutional Court, can be applied to, he says. Do you still support the same claim that the path to trial is open, or do you plan to change Article 105 of the Constitution along with this law?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0398par0332	Dear Canikli...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0400par0333	Thank you, Mr. President. Some of them can't read or write, Mr. President, or they don't know how to listen.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0398par0335	Mr. Canikli, please, you will ask questions.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0400par0336	The question just now is, how neat is it?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0401par0337	He's referring to the Minister, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0400par0338	I'm asking the Minister.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0401par0339	No, Mr. Secretary, but just because he can't read or write...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0400par0340	I'm asking, I'm asking the Minister. I'm not asking the president, I'm asking the Minister, just like the regular questions that were asked earlier. Some of them, Mr. Secretary, are either illiterate or unable to read or understand that they are listening.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0401par0342	So the Minister can read and write, my dear.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0400par0343	It is said that after twelve o'clock, some officers take the following day off. Some of them don't come into office at 9:30 the next day, because the bet is that the next day, even if they work until the morning, they'll start at 9:30, but we said they didn't start at 9:30, they took some time off. The records are here, so let's check the records.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0402par0344	We read it yesterday. You said twenty-four hours.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0400par0345	Look, in 24 hours... 24 hours for the tea people, less for the others. Loud and clear. That's why I'm saying, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0403par0347	Mr. Secretary doesn't know what tea people do.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0400par0348	Isn't he capable of understanding that he reads some? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0404par0350	They were talking about Kavas and stenographers.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0405par0351	Thank you, Mr. Canicli. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0406par0353	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, the PKK and the Republic of Turkey are not fighting a war. [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] The PKK and the Republic of Turkey are not fighting a war. The PKK is a terrorist organization. There's a war going on with the terrorist organization. Therefore, you, the war criminal, with whom you have struggled... we don't have that same expression. Therefore, since you are not at war with the PKK, neither is a war spokesman from them or from any side.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0407par0358	Mr. Ozkoch, please, Mr. Secretary is responding.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0406par0359	Another issue was that we had never lost so much in 30 years, as the PKK put it. This fight against the PKK is a bigger challenge than the battle in thirty years. The PKK is saying it with its own mouth.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0407par0361	Mr. Ozkoch, please...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0406par0362	Therefore, the fight against the PKK is not to go back an inch, but to go further. This has also been confirmed from the PKK's own mouth.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0408par0363	Yeah, you've already negotiated, that's how it is.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0406par0364	We have no negotiations with the PKK, nor with the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0408par0365	Oh, my God! Who was that in Oslo? The Prime Minister says I sent it.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0406par0366	Our people in the southeast are listening to their demands, and you sit here with representatives of the southeast people, and what are you saying? Let's hear what you say... We're not even afraid to listen. That's the essence. To another question, Mr. President, in the final joke of Article 5 of this law, the President determines the nature of information, documents and records belonging to the presidency. So...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0409par0369	Mr. Secretary, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0406par0370	Therefore, the judicial path to the actions of the President alone is closed. There's nothing to be done about it if the president says the secret of the state in what he has to say about a document.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0410par0371	Mr. Secretary can't listen, Mr. President, the silence is broken.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0406par0372	However, what we call a clear path of judgment... is open to the proceedings of the State Secret Evaluation Board, and the judicial path against the actions of the President alone is closed. Another issue: There is no such law anywhere in the world. I mean, it's kind of funny. The Secret Secrets Act in the United States, first released in 1889, changed in 1911, changed in 1920, changed in 1939, changed in 1989...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0410par0374	His name is similar, but it doesn't look like the content, Mr. Secretary. His name is similar. There are others with the same name, but that's not the context.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0411par0375	Congressman, please let's hear it.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0406par0376	Canada received England's law in 1889, and went through many changes again. Again, the seventh chapter of Australian penal law dated 1914 is about official secrets. Again, the Law of Marine Discipline of British law...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0410par0377	Minister, they're not like this law.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0406par0378	There's a law on that in 1957. Again, the Official Secrets Act, which New Zealand called the Official Secrets Act, was in 1951. It is possible to increase the number of these.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0412par0379	But after World War II, Mr. Secretary, they were abandoned; they were ancient, not new.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0406par0380	In other words, the Deputy has stated here that there is a record of some contracts being unpublished, and it says it's a very grave thing. It's probably just ignorance. According to Article 244's Article 244's Article 244's Article 244's Law on the Authority of the Council of Ministers for Compromises, International Accords, and Article 2's 2's 2's Article 2's Article 244's Article 244's Article 3's Article 3's Article 3's Article 3's Article 3's Article on whether it is based on an international agreement or on the rights of private persons, based on technical or administrative agreements made by the Council of Ministers and on the authority vested authority given by the law, it is not necessary to be published by the Council of Ministers and to publish laws of Turkish laws. Again, on the basis of what law did you make the contract in the Globecik? Again, the Council of Ministers has the authority to ratify the two or multiple-sided agreements with the states on which the North Atlantic Agreement was adopted in Article 244, dated February 18, 1952, and under the Law 5886.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0413par0382	Mr. Secretary, is your answer now about the Orbukik?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0406par0383	It's beautiful.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0413par0384	Is that correct, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0406par0385	It has a legal basis, it's true, it's a bilateral contract, exactly.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0413par0386	I told you. You just signed with NATO. I'm asking you about his old self.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0414par0387	Mr. Ozturk, please...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0406par0388	Another issue is the meeting between the Prime Minister and Mr. Yasar Buyukanit, each meeting between two people is a private meeting. What they're talking about depends on the secret between the two. However, I would say that Yasar Buyukanit has re-evaluated an attack by Fikri Rights on personal rights regarding this meeting -- as Mr. Deputy Director of the Group -- as he did -- as he did -- as he did -- as he did -- as he went to court, after the Supreme Court violated it, he reconsidered his rights of character, he was attacked and convicted. Therefore, if you say too much about it, you will be attacking the rights of the person of Yasar Buyukanit. What is injustice? Cruelty means covering up the truth, cruelty means not giving away the right to the right. Here the citizen expects our services, the citizen pays all the MPs of this House monthly, pays their staff monthly, pays their light monthly, their expenses. We're trying to get it running, but someone's trying not to, and people are seeing it.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0415par0390	Drinking tea backstage?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0406par0391	After that, people support the people who want to run...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0415par0392	Drinking tea backstage?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0406par0393	People see people who want to stop them. You have the right to block it, it's the Civil Code. But that's what we're going to tell the nation: either you vote for the one who serves you or those who want to serve you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0416par0395	He's become puritanical.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0415par0396	Do you serve backstage by drinking tea?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0406par0397	Again, Mr. President, one last thing... In Article 3 of this law, there is something very beautiful in the bill: the secret of the state cannot and cannot be interpreted and applied in contrary to the principle of the state of law and the requirements of democratic society. Is that greater security? There is a clause in the law that says respect for the rule of law cannot necessarily interpret the secret of the state against the requirements of law order and democratic society. That's what we're gonna do. I mean, who's going to do it if the politicians, the Prime Minister or the ministers don't? Is it the work of law or the work of judgment? It's an execution process, isn't it? Who performs the procedure? Admission. You leave it to the bureaucrat, or you leave it to the public ministers. Therefore, there is no sin in what is done; it is true. History will also show that in its place, there is no harm in it.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0417par0400	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0418par0401	Mr. Secretary, there are no subjective, objective elements there. If there were objective elements...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0419par0402	Mr. President has clearly insulted the opposition, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0417par0403	How clearly did he say and insult you, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0420par0404	In fact, you should punish the Minister.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0419par0405	Mr. President, it's not the opposition's job to prevent it, I want to explain that. He said we clearly blocked it.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0417par0406	Here you go, Mr. Slim. I'll give you two minutes. Please don't give me another pick-me-up.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0421par0408	You're not doing your duty by not answering questions, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0422par0409	He's not doing his duty, let another minister come.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0423par0412	Mr. President, my dear friends, here's the thing:
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0424par0413	No sound, no sound.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0423par0414	As soon as you're a congressman, that's how he'll explain it.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0425par0415	I can't hear it.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0423par0416	So, if he doesn't know the Civil Code here, if he doesn't know the order of the House here, a minister will make such a statement, that's true. We're not here at this time of night to prevent power, what kind of law you're making out of government lawmakers, come and learn. We're calling here, we're doing this. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Well, let me ask five of you two questions about this law, two people, two questions.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0426par0420	Mr. Slim, please...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0423par0421	If they come and respond here, I promise you, as Republican People's Party MPs, we will vote yes to this law. Are you up for it or not?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0427par0422	We're in!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0423par0423	Shall I show you? You, come. Look, my dear friends, here, and...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0427par0426	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0428par0427	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0423par0428	Calm down, calm down, calm down. Look, you'll be embarrassed if I show you. Some of you bow your heads, look, I see, you're embarrassed. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Congressmans, here...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0428par0431	We'll ask you.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0429par0432	Ask me, ask me.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0430par0433	Ask the question.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0431par0434	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0429par0435	Ask the question.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0431par0436	There's also something else here...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0429par0437	Ask the question.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0431par0438	...the egos of the ministers are so high that now the Council of Ministers sees so much burden...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0429par0439	Ask the question.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0431par0440	Sit the fuck down! Sit down! Sit down!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0432par0442	Mr. Slim, please...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0429par0443	Ask the question.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0431par0444	Do you copy, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0432par0445	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0431par0446	The ministers' egos are so high that they stop for five minutes without getting angry. Dear Arinc...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0433par0448	Question, question...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0434par0449	Ask your question, ask your question.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0431par0450	Question... come here, then.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0434par0452	You come.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0435par0453	Please, Mr. Slim, with that kind of language?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0431par0454	My question is, is there autonomy here? Who's throwing? Who put how many people on that board? Any autonomy? Come on, tell me all about it. Come on, tell me. Come on, tell me.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0436par0455	Come, tell me about Oslo.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0435par0456	Please, Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0431par0457	Green tie, come and tell me. Let's see if you can tell me.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0437par0459	I'll give you the answer.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0431par0460	The ministers' egos are so high that both Mr. Arinc and Mr. Yilmaz remain calm for five minutes and then the House...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0437par0462	You didn't ask the question, the question.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0431par0463	You haven't dried the ink yet. You were out there playing steel sticks while I was running for Congress.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0438par0465	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0439par0466	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0440par0467	Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Thin asked for a promise, it's been made. Yes, what do you mean?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0439par0468	Mr. President, I asked the question about the Globekic radar, and Mr. Secretary said that I didn't know about it, and he gave me an unrelated response. He didn't even answer my question properly. I'll make a statement about that.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0440par0469	Please sit down and let's hear from Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0441par0470	Mr. President, it's Mr. Secretary who's not doing his duty. He actually just called the Grand National Assembly a special meeting, and the answer to this is that it's a state meeting... is that the Minister is a well-advised minister who pretends to know things he doesn't know here. No talks about Oslo talks, he said. I sent the PM's special representative. So don't let the ministers come in like this, Mr. President, the ministers who know.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0440par0472	Mr. Vural, is the style correct or correct?
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0442par0473	Mr. President, there are also two international agreements in a moment. Look, we're not interfering, we're informing. If he wants a block, I'll show it to the Minister in a minute. I'll show him how to block it, if he wants it, but we have conversations with Mr. Canikli, and I stand by my promise, but I'll show him how to block it if he wants to.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0440par0475	Mr. Slim, please sit down. Mr. Ozturk, come in, I'll give you a minute, please explain in a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0443par0480	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, what I said on this bench about the Minister-Sphergy radar, my friends, I said, "There has been an agreement with the Globekic radar before, this deal was not made with NATO, it was made with the United States of America. However, you submitted this agreement as if it had been done with NATO, and the last time President Abdullah Gul had joined the NATO Summit in Chicago, this radar was transferred to NATO; was it or wasn't it not, Minister? If this deal... this radar was transferred to NATO in Chicago, what was its status before that? You stood up, telling me the name of NATO was opened, and based on it, you made a deal with America? Why don't you just tell the truth and make it look like what we're saying is wrong? The second issue, again, is the meeting with the Great Monument. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I read a document here. I read Mr. Cemil Cicek's document as Deputy Prime Minister: "This is a private discussion on matters of state and country, not a private conversation," he says. Mr. Secretary is still trying to distort the facts. I'll be damned!
tbmm-2012-06-21sit08spe0444par0485	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk, I understand. [[Continue]] Congressmans, talks have been completed on the entire second chapter. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit09spe0444par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 123th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 287. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Law Bill and Foreign Affairs Commission Report, which ranked in the 4th place, in accordance with the Common Transit Regime Convention. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 274 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit09spe0445par0010	Mr. President, we have a statement to make.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit09spe0444par0011	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit09spe0445par0012	Thank you, Mr. President. There are no international agreements, there are no opposition here, there are no unanimous jobs, these are the jobs of the state; we have no problems here to block, we have no talks, we vote, of course we support, but I want the Minister to hear them, of course. So we don't find that we're always present in the government's work, as opposition, as the main opposition, that we don't oppose them, that we don't block them, that we want to show them, that we want to inform Parliament, that we want to inform our people, that we're using the rights given by the Constitution and the Civil Law, that's not an obstruction, that's a right. The second is that the Interior Charter has given us the right to check with 20 MPs, and you have 184 from 330. The first is 164 from 164, and the second is 184 from 184, which is 184 from you, which is enough, and you don't have to come 330. If I were the ruling MP, if I were the ruling party's group's deputy, I'd bang 250 people here, CHP's Deputy Group Chairman Muharrem İnce stood up, and he said: "I want a roll call." Mr. President says: "There are 250 people, what do you want to do?" Here the number is done. There's no waste of time, it's that simple. You don't have to be mad at us. I think you should be mad at yourself. You should be mad at your friends outside, waiting outside, and I'm saying that logic is wrong. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-21sit09spe0446par0017	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. (x) 274 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. As to the fact that we agreed to agree to join the T.R.R.R.R.R.R. MADDE 1- (1) It was appropriate for us to participate in the Convention on the Association of Common Transit Regime, which was created to move the European Economic Community and the EFTA countries and the EFTA countries themselves. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) The Council of Ministers is authorized to approve changes related to the additions of this contract. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 3- (1) is in effect in the history of this Law publication. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you one minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the law, the bill of law on whether our participation in the Joint Transit Regime is appropriate has come to an open vote: ▪ The number of votes used: 209 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Özlem Yemişçi So the bill is accepted and legalized. We begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked in the 5th place, in accordance with the Simplification of Operations in Articles. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 275 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who do not accept... Sustained. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 275 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. RETURN TO CONTINUE TO CONTINUE THE CONTACT OF THE CONTROL OF THE PRODUCTION OF THE PROCESS OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE EFFECTIONS OF THE EFFECTION MADDE 1- (1) It was appropriate for us to participate in the simplification of transactions between the European Economic Community and the EFTA countries by giving a statement to the Charter. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) The Council of Ministers is authorized to approve changes related to the additions of this contract. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 3- (1) is in effect in the history of this Law publication. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, it is a clear vote that we are eligible to join the Convention on Simplification of Operations in Articles: ▪ Number of votes used : 217 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Özlem Yemişçi Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. According to the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (June 26, 2012) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
