tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 128th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There are enough meetings, we're going to talk. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can respond to these conversations. The government's response time is 20 minutes. The first word off the agenda belongs to Kars MP Yunus Kılıç, who wants to talk about the spread of Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever, the source of contamination, the measures needed to be taken, human deaths. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, for three reasons the Crimean Congo bleeding fever needs to inform the Assembly of its output and navigation in Turkey. I salute you all. First of all, what is the Crimean Congo bleeding fever, how did it get into Turkey, because I had seen lawmakers involved, questioned, wanted to get information in talks about it before, and secondly, after a busy work pace, we hope that our lawmakers will be able to benefit from a little bit more nature with their vacations, and in this period, I felt the need to have a conversation with a sense of being a little more cautious, a little more courageous. Respected MPs, Crimean Congo's hemorrhagic fever is actually a viral disease. It's created by a virus from the Bunyaviridae family, including the Nairobi group, but what's more important here and more important to us is that the disease is transmitted through ticks from wild animals to humans. Ticks are parasites. These viruses are also another parasite of ticks. So we're dealing with a creature that's a parasite. So, what caused this Crimean Congo bleeding fever to pop up in Turkey? Actually, epidemiologists say it's not like that, respected lawmakers. In 1944, after being seen in the Congo in 56, in 2002, he appeared in the province of Tokat with various muscle pains, headaches, digestive disorders, and entered our country's agenda with his epidemis. Later, samples of this were taken, sent to France, Japan, and first diagnosed with a disease called Crimean Congo, which was not diagnosed with a disease called ▪Q Fever. Later, however, in 2003, it was found that there was no q Fever, and the Crimean Congo was diagnosed with hemorrhagic fever. What was done in our country after that? The Ministry of Health has done especially serious work. He conducted a face-to-face education of nearly 1 million people, with the support of the Ministry of National Education in schools, training in children in particularly risky areas, teaching about 3 or 4 million children each year. After doing risk analysis of areas in particularly risky areas, the Ministry of Agriculture has studied in 36 provinces with an average of 4-5 million people each year and fought ticks on animals. Other than that, serious budgets have been set aside by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, and this struggle is continued each year by re-resolving and updating risk analysis of regions. Hospitals have been reinforced, staff trained, the blood needs of local hospitals have become rapidly affordable because, you know, Crimean Congo bleeding fever has a process that is not a specific treatment, but is being maintained by support treatments. And we have to be proud to say that if you do a scan of the Crimean Congo, it says that the mortality rate, the mortality rate, has changed between 25 percent and 30 percent of those infected. In Turkey, however, at the moment, the mortality rate among the infected is 5 per cent. Oh, at least it'll be better. Is that something to rejoice about? No, it's not, but our country has a reality like this, and Turkey is actually a country that fights the Crimean Congo very well, but we have better things to do. TUBITAK-backed vaccine studies continue. In a study conducted by our friends at GATA, 26 patients with a serum and a 90 per cent risk of death by themselves are almost healed. So even though our country is going through a serious process of this, 322 of the 6,392 cases have, unfortunately, died in our country due to Crimea Congo. So the Crimean Congo is a fact of this country, the country is in a good fight, and it means we have to go on increasing, and I give you all respect.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0003par0018	Thank you, Mr. Sword. The second non-responsive statement, regarding corruption allegations in Çorum Municipality, belongs to Chorum MP Balık Köse, who wants to stir up corruption in the tender and press charges against the President of the City Council and the President of the Contraction Commission. Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0004par0023	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, today I have made a promise that the allegations of corruption that I have made on this stand and through the press, which have long occupied public opinion in Çorum, will cease to be an indictment. On this occasion, I salute you all. My dear friends were elected Mayor of Chorum, a friend of ours who served as parliament during the 22nd term in the election held on March 29, 2009. After April, after May, rumors began to spread about him following the month he was chosen, and these rumors grew over time, making him public voice-over. There have been so many rumors that the Justice and Development Party's public opinion, the Justice and Development Party businessmen, even members of the Justice and Development Party, have become uncomfortable. In the beginning, my dear friends, the rumors of the development and tender corruption of the Sorumspor (orumspor) have become increasingly spoken without the use of the name of Corumspor. In time, the rumor was no longer a rumor, but also a subject of newspaper news. After that, there was a rumor that our friend, who is a candidate for mayor foreclosure from a public institution, was a partner in a concrete facility, and after a while, yes, I have a partnership in the concrete company. Now, I'm asking, what's a mayor's salary? How much is it to build a concrete facility, to be a partner? What's the explanation for being a partner in a concrete plant where he comes in foreclosure? The public is very curious about that. As these developments continue, his father, who received a tender from Çorum City Hall, filed a complaint with the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2002, that a friend of ours, who had been the first to take a turn for the Justice and Development Party in 2002, had first shared his claim with the press that he had been asked for bribes, and then filed a complaint with the Public Prosecutor's Office. In the past few days, he has filed charges against the criminal court on charges of contempt, bribery and bribery and abetting charges against the mayor's office, Muzaffer Ashcı, Deputy Mayor, two Councilmen, the Mayor's Councilor of Çorum Municipality Commissioners, and this indictment has been accepted, but the public knows that these crimes mentioned in the indictment are the face of the iceberg. I was referring to an inspector from the Ministry of the Interior. I believe the Home Office has sent an inspector to show off that he has returned without any further investigation. However, since 2009, the tenders had to be reviewed and the construction changes that have been made so far. This was supposed to be very important, but our call went unanswered. I call on the Home Secretary who raids opposition parties in the morning, searches for homes and businesses, even for abuse of office. In the interest of the investigation, the Home Secretary must remove the mayor of Çorum from his post. If he gets laid off, there'll be real corruption, corruption in real bids, zoning corruption. People can't speak out of fear. The Home Secretary is calling for a public service. By the way, there are three Justice and Development Party MPs that I know and like all of them. He's calling them to do their duty, too, mostly public opinion. As the Prime Minister often said, the thirsty one is the dumb one. I want to remind them of his coming. Again, the Critics do not consider it appropriate for any conscientious politician to try to keep his political position by covering his ears for injustices, injustices, and injustices. Last but not least, I'd like to address the mayor of Çorum, who was elected to parliament in the past period: You are the city of Çorum. The city of the stock means resigning, withdrawing from office and keeping the investigation safe until it is cleared. Drop your mission. He expects you to step down from your duties until you're cleared of your public charges. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0005par0035	The third non-responsive statement belongs to Isparta-Burdur MP Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, who asked for the reboot of the trains. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0006par0039	Mr. President, I have been promised to speak off the agenda about the re-activating of the lsparta-Burdur train flights. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the road means civilization, development; the end of longings means reunions and hugs. Starting on November 4, 2004, three train routes from north and west to south were cancelled; first the Isparta-Bur, then the Burdur-Isparta-Izmir Lake District Express on March 3, 2008, also the Burdur-Isparta-Isparta-Isparta-Istanbul Pamukkale Express on July 24, 2008. The last train to Isparta-Burdur was the train to Hurriyet in 2009. The home of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk (Ghazi Kemal Ataturk) has been given great importance to the railways of the Republic of Turkey and has written success stories all over the country. Burdur and Isparta train stations, which were launched on the same day by the late Prime Minister of the period, Inönu, on May 25, 1936, were one of them, but despite all absences, the railway line was launched in AKP power sixty-eight years later. Even the black train in the city has been seen many times in our province. The song has been sung. These claims have been answered, sir, like we're bringing a fast train. For one thing, this is not the alternative to the fast train. Did you build a fast train, and did someone tie you up? The people of the region were faced with the presence of the finders at home as they went to Dimyat. Both trains can be operated by loading different functions. We are especially bringing a fast train for those who know that the railways are a way of life, not only of people, but of all the material spiritual values created in the country, that is, a tool that carries culture, and above all, an option, so the answer is extremely inadequate. The distance between the two cities is down to half an hour. There are 50,000 students in Isparta, and 30,000 in Burdur. In addition, there is an airport between the two provinces, organised industrial areas, military units, and in 2004 there is a black aviation school project that will come to the region and allow for the circulation of thousands. When these facilities and developments are on the agenda, it should no longer be discussed whether the railway is random or not. And let's just say that if you can't operate with a business-wise merchant's logic despite these circumstances, it's your ability to be a government. When we meet with the Ministry of Transport officials, they say that these lines are not supported by citizens as customers, and ultimately, marginal cost and marginal profit analysis are not economical. But it's kind of like an egg or a chicken issue, the precious MPs. Is this line not profitable because the citizen is not paying enough attention, or is it because the line has so far low standards for both speed and comfort that the citizen is not paying enough attention? When you raise standards, it's very clear how citizens are wanted, how they can be sought out, in Ankara-Eskişehir or Ankara-Konya campaigns. A total of 22,200 signatures from Burdur and Isparta's people's signing campaign to reopen this line were submitted to the Transport Ministry yesterday with a delegation, including Burdur MP Ramadan Bey. First of all, I have a debt of gratitude to Mr. Minister of Transport and his Undersecretary. Taking a close interest in the delegation, he has informed the delegation that it cannot be kept silent, but the repairs on the line continue, and the renovations between Isparta-Burdur will be completed in November of this year, so that the trains between Isparta-Burdur could be rebooted from 2012 to 2012, and the Ispartalı has asked our Burdur citizens to keep track, trains, and railways. This positive development -- God willing -- will bear its fruit, and we will have our train back. Therefore, while thanking the authorities who are sensitive to the request of Isparta and Burdurlu once again, I would like to say that we expect the planned fast train to be activated on a route where both provinces can benefit at maximum. Once again, I express my gratitude to the president and valued executives of the consumer society that have launched this campaign, to all the non-governmental organizations that have contributed and collected signatures, and to all my fellow citizens who have signed, for their sensitivity, I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0007par0049	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. I'll promise our friends who are in the system for a minute. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0008par0054	Mr. President, the debate over the planned hydropower plant in Bayramören district of Çankırı is going on for several years. The report on the environmental impact assessment on the HES has been completed, although the report clearly states what damage the plant's construction will do, but it also has a report of compliance with the project. However, if that happens, the county and its environment will suffer major damage. The project requires about 8,000 trees to be cut down, and the project site is clearly listed on the North Anatolian fault line, which is the first-degree earthquake belt, the CED report. Given that there were around seven earthquakes in the area at that time, and that experts recently counted this area as an earthquake, I believe the project should be reviewed immediately. In addition, the plant, planting and organic agriculture that will be built on Melen Tea will completely kill the 1,99,000 square metres of agriculture. 25 settlements, 1 counties and 1 nahiya will be dehydrated within 62km. Is the electricity to produce worth this much damage? I'm especially inviting EPDK officials to consider the project before it's approved. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0009par0057	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0010par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as it is known, many courts have been closed in our country by the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, and in this context, the courts of our seven counties have been closed, and the Court of Judges and Prosecutors' Supreme Council on 22 June 2012 has not yet been extradited in place of three of our courts -- a correct decision -- but it is very important and very important -- and the Chekidddu and Shalpazar of our major counties. The idea is in Tripoli: Is it because the municipalities in this district are not from AKP? In this regard, all party members have come from Tripoli to Ankara and have discussed the issues. This must be corrected as soon as possible and the Shalpazari courts must be opened. I submit to the knowledge of the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0011par0064	Thank you. Your Grace...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0012par0067	Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief statement about what our Isparta MP has just brought up off the agenda. Burdur-Isparta trains were also removed when short-distance trains were removed throughout Turkey. So this happened in Alsancak, in Niğde Ulukış, in Erzurum, in Erzincan, in another province. Burdur-Isparta trains travel between Isparta-Burdur for about 55 minutes. There are no more than 20 to 21 people riding trains with 65 people. The annual cost also comes at a very high cost. Rather than that, a citizen of Burdur will have to go to the station in Isparta to go back to medical school or inside Isparta. So at this point, we also expressed that the cost of the train was too high. If possible, the municipality of Isparta and Burdur municipality could work in the form of a suburb -- with a joint study, as our Minister of Transport has expressed -- to buy its business. Besides, Burdur-Isparta is now 15 minutes away.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0013par0072	Thank you, Your Grace. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0014par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Monday is the 19th anniversary of the 19th anniversary of the Madimak massacre, which took place on July 2, 1993 in Sivas, in which 33 of our intellectuals were burned alive. It was a crime of humanity, a shame of humanity, but unfortunately, what happened after that was another human shame to have this case put on hold. It further deepens the shame that some of the defendants of this trial are still wanted with a red bulletin, but they are still in Germany and cannot be extradited to Turkey. Crimes against humanity shouldn't have a statute of limitations. Unfortunately, the statute of limitations on the five defendants has been issued, and even more painfully, after this decision, Mr. Prime Minister came out and said, "May this decision be good for Turkey." On the 19th anniversary, I remember once again with mercy and thanks our intellectuals who lost their lives in Sivas. I demand the immediate extradition of these escaped defendants to Turkey. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0015par0081	Thank you. Mr. Topstone...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0016par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, 146 courthouses have recently been closed across Turkey, and soon 44 of those closed have been reopened. As the Minister gave his opinion on the matter here, these closures were done according to objective measurements by the questions of our friends, he said. However, after these closings were done according to objective measurements, 44 of them were re-opened according to what measure? Two district courts have been closed in Afyon, one Sultandağı, one İhsecond. The Sultandağı and the Ihsecond have towns with very large populations, large villages. The distance between the courts between which these towns and districts are connected is far away if they are closed. Despite the distance, these were not measured, but the courts they wanted reopened were under pressure from some ruling lawmakers. This is injustice, and this matter must be dealt with seriously and the problem must be resolved. Again, it is also the bailiffs who bear the burden of the courts. Indeed, the bailiffs bear the most heavy burden of the courts. Therefore, even though they have a college degree, even if they finish college, they have no other staff to ascend than bailiffs. You really need to focus on the problems of the bailiffs who are carrying the burden of the court, who are taking the burden of the court. We've prepared a motion with our friends, so please, when the judgment package arrives, I want all our friends to be sensitive about it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0017par0090	Thank you, Mr. Topstone. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has its presentations to the General Assembly, I submit. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition, we propose the opening of Parliamentary Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th Civil Charter of the Constitution to determine the problems and proposals for solutions that have been raised over the years by the attacks and terrorism of our citizens in Germany. [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Aydın]] 6) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İzmir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Scholarship]] 13) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] 15) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Mughle]] [[Manisa]] 18) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Niğde]] 24) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] Your migration to Germany is 50. As we celebrated the year with events, seven Turks and nine others were found to have been killed by the racist neo-Nazi gang between 2000 and 2007. Germany has found that attacks on immigrants who have contributed substantially to the construction of the European economy, social well-being are not important enough to the German and European states. In 1992, in Mölln City, 3, 1993, five of our citizens were burned to death in Solingen City. In 2008, nine of our citizens were killed in a fire in the city of Ludwigshaven. The debate that the gangs who committed the killings in Germany actually had assistants in the state's "deep depths" has caused major trauma as a revelation of the secret known to the immigrant public. Arguing that those who want to terrorize immigrants, scare them, "willfully leave the country," are actually calling them to Germany to take advantage of the workforce, will cause a crisis of trust among communities that is difficult to overcome. President of the German Social Democratic Party, if these killings were committed by an Islamic organisation in Germany and the dead were Germans, all streets would be blocked, helicopters and all departments of the state would be deployed at the highest level. None of it was done." It does. Our migration to Germany, which began in 1961, has revealed a new Turkey in which some 3 million of our citizens live. Our citizens have contributed greatly to the economic development of the two countries. They played a major role in Germany's economic miracle development in the 1967s. Thanks to them, the middle class of German society rose to the top and began to prosper. German, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese foreign workers have taken on small-time, hard-earned jobs, first-generation Turkish immigrants. The majority of first-generation immigrants have migrated to work in sectors where jobs can be employed without any professional education, skills, if they look at their positions within the economy. As a result of technological change, the opening of jobs that require more technical and professional training has led to increased unemployment in Germany, in line with the negative developments of the global economy. The production-based economic system has reduced the need for unskilled labor, leaving the automation system, which requires no manpower to reduce the cost. With the second generation, the German-Turkish blend is a new culture. After third and fourth generations of Turkish immigrants, the number of Turks now becoming German citizenship has increased by more than 700,000. However, the new immigration law issued by the German state in 2005 has imposed many tasks on foreigners as they envisioned a number of rights. To those who want to become citizens, the test of citizenship has begun. The language is not required to become citizens from the United States, from England, from another Western country, but people from Turkey are obliged to take German courses before they arrive. According to studies, 75 per cent of the Turks living in Germany and 13 per cent of the Germans are in the lower layers. 21.7 per cent of Turks live in Germany between 8.8 per cent live between 8 and 15 per cent, 38.4% live in Germany between 15 and 30 per cent in 30 years. The German Institute of Statistics states that the number of Turkish people living in the country is more than 3 million. According to statistics, 20 per cent of Turks do not speak good German, but more than 45 per cent do not have an after-school degree. 15% of them live on welfare, with the help of the state created by the merger of unemployment allowance. Germany's economy has become a European giant with the automotive sector, the industry and the underpaid adult staff, the tradesmen, the Turkish entrepreneurs who have broken monopoly in the retail sector. About 100,000 Turks own businesses and employ about 500,000 people, including Germans. Turkish employers have an annual turnover of 35 billion euros. The scar of isolation, disintegration, alien hostility, racism, social unrest, democratic culture poses a serious danger to Germany and Turkey. The discovery of the existence of deep forces behind violence to immigrants will contribute to social life, co-existence culture. A parliamentary survey must be opened to investigate the problems of our 3 million Turkish citizens living in Germany and their immediate problems, including the racial attacks they face, education, unemployment, cultural problems, integration, dual citizenship and so on, to identify solutions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Constitution of the 98th Amendment on the determination and resolution of Adana's problems, the measures to be taken, and the implementation of practices that must be carried out according to this. Turkey's Grand National Assembly 104th of the Council of Ministers. And 105. In accordance with the terms of the matter, we would like to submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research. [[Adana]] 2) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Erzurum]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Kastamon]] [[Elizipt]] [[Yozgat]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Aydın]] [[Adana]] [[Manisa]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 15) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Inconceived]] [[Adana]] [[Paddles]] [[İstanbul]] The population of Çukurova is close to 2 million, and is in a very important position in the transport of Adana, the highway, the naval highway, the air and railway, both at the point of connecting different parts of our country and also at the prospect of being a door to the Middle East. Its textile and agricultural industry dating back about half a century, and the city of the south, which has provided our country with savings, has been the basis for modern industrial breakthroughs, has suffered from many problems in recent years. Adana lives in painful times in this area, both with its production values and its potential and its inexhaustibleness in agricultural production. Intense internal migration, which has a negative effect on the city's sociocultural tissue due to its harmonisation, is equally effective in the city's economic life. Although economic projects and applications, such as the Kerkuk-Egg oil pipeline, Botaş, Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan (BTC), the ovarian Free Zone, offer hope for the future of Adana, they are far away from Adana's expectations, including employment. The Lower Seyhan Plain watering project, which our producers in Adana have longed for, and will give thousands of new jobs to our people, a juicy agricultural potential, and a significant contribution to our country's agricultural production, has turned into a snake story. Unemployment is increasing every day, witnessing unwanted social events almost every day. Even in 2001, unemployment, 8.4 per cent, rose to 16.2 per cent of Turkey's average last year. In Adana, where the monopoly was sold, Aksantaş was closed, SASA had to change hands several times, Bossa had to shrink, Mensa was constantly remembered for the crises, unfortunately public investments have been regressed. Adana introduced 13 companies among Turkey's top 500 companies in 1996, while in 2011, the number of companies was even lower. From narcissist to cotton, from wheat to peanuts, our farmers are devastated in Çukurova, which is known in agricultural production as Turkey's warehouse, which should be rightly appreciated, but, in this sense, rather than supported. In the last four to five years, our farmer, who has seen an increase of 700 per cent to the prices of fertilizer, has been baffled by the price of diesel, which has been constantly climbing and making 1 ton more expensive than an acre of land. Despite such an increase in the inputs, our manufacturer is desperate to find only twice the price of sale in some of the crops he harvests. In the face of problems in Adana that we believe are well known to all concerned institutions of the state, our citizen is depressed. According to TÜİK data, 20 people committed suicide in 2000, while the number increased five times in 2011, making the word depression inadequate. The cure, of course, is no way for a citizen to take his own life. There is a cure, and the cure lies in the government's ability to look more realistic, fairer, more equal to Adana. Therefore, we propose the establishment of the Parliamentary Research Commission to determine the problems of Adana, the measures to be taken, the solutions to which some of them are tried to be explained and deepened, and that they may become more difficult or impossible to repair tomorrow. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, a Turkish Foreign Policy, which has become increasingly common, rather than a state policy called "Zero Problems With Our Neighbors" policy, is increasingly popular, with the Prime Minister and especially the Foreign Minister's personal and internal preferences. On this axis, negative relations with the European Union, the United States, Israel, Iraq, Greece, Armenia and South Cyprus were also added to countries like Egypt, Syria, Libya and so on. As a result, Turkey's Foreign Policy, historical obligations and processes have focused solely on singular preferences -- both on active, realistic, peaceful, and versatile -- leading international relations with our neighbours and other countries. The following relations include scientists from inside and outside the TBM and politicians, with respect to the establishment of a Parliamental Research Commission under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in the matter of review, reviewing, and determining the multi-directional Turkish Foreign Policy. [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 4) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 5) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Erzurum]] [[Inconceived]] [[Manisa]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Kastamon]] [[Elizipt]] [[Yozgat]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Aydın]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Paddles]] [[Adana]] Governments have political practices, power and power of power from the people, of course. However, foreign policy is an international, institutional relationship that requires the basis of independence and territorial integrity, with historical processes and obligations. It includes relationships that have the power to directly influence the future of the country and society. For these reasons, it is inevitable to address the principles of foreign politics, dynamics, facts, diversity, historical processes, history and universal interests beyond domestic politics. In foreign policy, with our neighbors and other countries, no matter how controversial, unresolved issues and issues there are, the solution, removal, destruction should be the primary goal. As a matter of fact, the "Yurtta peace, peace in jihanda" approach, which the Republic of Turkey launched with its establishment, reflects its policy, its encompassing, environmental, universal values. No Turkish state, including the Ottoman Empire, has dealt with its relations with its neighbours and other nations on a purely manipulative and colonial axis. For these reasons, the Turkish Nation, the so-called "democracy" that the imperial forces started in Iraq, did not believe in its rhetoric and, reluctantly, applauded the decision by the AKP government not to side with the invasion of Iraq. The imperial forces, who can only see and see human rights on the scale of their interests or not, are now managing with care and care over new goals, through Syria, Egypt, Libya and so on. European leaders who are not afraid to receive their share of every collapse and destruction, those who have been ruling Libya for years, who cannot help calling him my friend and brother, the hypocrite politicians, are eagerly awaiting the death of the so-called rebel bullet. Instead of bringing Libyan leader Gaddafi to justice, they are shamelessly watching in the indecency and shamelessness of dragging his dead body into the squares, neither democracy nor human rights. In fact, it's not quite clear whether Saddam's Iraq or Gaddafi's Libya, which is being dragged on the ground. Maybe it's a geography, a belief geography that's drifting on the floor. Today it's Iraq, Libya, Syria, who doesn't know who it's for tomorrow! Today, Turkish Foreign Policy represents an understanding that, in the name of national interests, personal views are driven by inner, inconsistencies, inconsistencies, incompatible, variables, that it is seen to be doing, in the inner policy-oriented, heroic instinct, that impulsive thinking and actions are dominated. What is the real impact of the Prime Minister and Turkey in Syria, Libya and other countries in this geography, which are praised for being the powerful leader and country of geography and territory? How should it be directed? In this area, what are the policies of the State Department? It's all about processing, reviewing, interpretation, reviewing, essential research for the future. In light of the reasons mentioned above, it is important to establish a Parliamentary Research Commission that will reveal the shortcomings of our foreign policy and what needs to be done. Congressmans, you have been briefed on parliamentary research motions. The motions will take place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. According to the decision taken, we are moving to the part of the agenda that comes from the Commission with the draft and proposals of the Law. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the third place, Manisa MP Recai Berber and Bart's MP Yilmaz Tunç and 6 MPs; the Proposal of Law to Change Some Laws; the Association of Republican People's Party Group Chair Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi; the Law Against National Education Ministry's Organization and Jobs; the Proposal of Law on Law on Law, Balıkesir MP Namık Havutççça; the Proposal of Non-Atracted Teachers to Deputies and State Officers' Law on Organizations and Orders' Law; the Proposal of Law on National Education and Orders; and the Responsor of the Minister for Law on the Law; We shall underline the Constitution and Undergraduration of Ministerships and Ministership of Education. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Health, Family, and Social Affairs Commission Report Against the Statement of the State of Emergency, and with the Law on Making Changes in Some Laws and Laws. Commission? No. It's been postponed. The 5th ranking of Milliyetian Movement Party Chair Mehmet Şandir MP Mehmet Şindır; 2004 Member of the Council of Justice and Self-Subjects for the Amendment in some Articles of the Law; The Peace and Democracy Group Group Group Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan's Law on the postponing and Postponing of Crimes Against Crimes and Punishments Against Prisons; the Proposal of the Turkish Penal Code on Special Life and Secret Areas of Life; the Proposal of the Constitution of the People's Party; the Proposal for Peace and Democracy Group Party on Charges on Charges; The Opposition of Peace and Democracy Group on Charges; The Opposition of Humanity Law on Charges; The Opposition of Security of Turkish Penalty; The Opposition of Turkish Criminal Law on Special Life and Secret Areas; The Opposition of Public Opposition of Humanity; the European Law on Charges of Humanity; the Constitution; the European Law on Humanity of Humanity of Humanity; The Constitution of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity; The Constitution; The Constitution of the Turkish Law; The Constitution; The Constitution of the European Council; The Constitution of the European Council of the European Committee of the European Council; The Security of the Turkish Criminals of the Turkish Criminals of the Constitution; the Constitution; the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution; the Constitution and the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Turkish Committee of the European of the European of the European of the Constitution; and the Constitution of the Constitution of the European of the Constitution of the Turkish Criminal Code of the Constitution; and the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the European of the Constitution of the Constitution; and the Constitution and the European of the Constitution of the European of the Constitution of the Constitution of the European of the Constitution; and the Constitution of the Constitution and the Constitution of the European of the Constitution of the Constitution and the Constitution of the Constitution; and the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the European of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the European of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution; and the Constitution; and the Constitution; and the Constitution of the Constitution of Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 278 rows. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have received...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0018par0283	Mr. President, sir, with this package of justice, of course, we will express our views, but today, while Mr. Justice Minister of Justice is here, there are very serious allegations that someone who killed the children in the arson and was sentenced to life imprisonment by the will of the Turkish nation is either in a house or in a guesthouse. So, I think it's important that the Minister give us some information about these important allegations. In that respect, it's moving forward...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0019par0284	I'll explain now.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0018par0285	You're going to announce the bench? Yes, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0020par0287	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Secretary is essentially demanding a word, and he'll explain it when I give him my word. Let me finish this. Congressmans, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, after all negotiations on the bill have been agreed to be completed and passed on to its articles, it will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Mr. Sadullah Ergin, our Minister of Justice, who has asked for word on the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Ergin.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0021par0294	Mr. President, I've been promised to explain the opinion of our government on Bill 278. I salute the General Assembly. Before we go to the bill, I'd like to say that all the allegations that Mr. Vural had brought to the agenda and that the leader of the terrorist organization, which was in some media organs in Imralı, was somewhere outside the Imralı, were unreal. I hereby declare that he has been in Imralı Prison for more than a decade now, as he has been in prison for more than ten years, from this bench to Turkey. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, there is no doubt that the state of law is the most important stage of democratic civilization. Individual development and social progress are possible only within a model of law enforcement. One of the assets of the legal state, and perhaps most important, is to ensure the fair and effective functioning of the judicial system. The most important aspect of the active operation is the conclusion of trials in a reasonable time. This is the only way that the judiciary can respond quickly to problems and conflicts, by setting up conflicted interests with the quality of arbitration. However, developing social and economic relations have also led to the diversification of issues and conflicts in the interest of judicial authorities. The right to judge during a reasonable period, which is an integral part of the right to a fair trial, both our Constitution and international rights for fundamental rights, is under pressure from a heavy workload that grows day to day. Dear lawmakers, when law and criminal trials consider that about 6 million cases come to court every year in our country, it will be better to cover the workload and limits I've mentioned, given that there are around 6.5 million follow-ups to the executive offices every year. The heavy workload that undermines and disrupts the functioning of judicial authorities has become a current problem not only for our country, but for the judicial systems of many countries around the world. The European Court of Human Rights itself, which condemns countries for this in appeals to the European Court of Human Rights on grounds of violation of the right to a fair trial, has begun to violate the right to a fair trial because of the heavy labour burden, and the ECHR has organised three conventions to resolve this issue. The solution to this current problem is vital in order to strengthen access to justice, activation of judicial systems, and answer society's demand for justice. Our ministry has shaped the third judicial package, which we are meeting today, following the 1st and 2nd judicial packages, on the basis of this social need, and has presented it to the discretion of the Grand Assembly. In this scope, many important changes have been made that will increase the capacity of high judicial bodies, reduce the workload of courts, effectively and efficiently run the services of justice, thanks to the earlier legal ones and the two-party packages. On the other hand, alternative institutions and operations worldwide are encouraged to achieve the social goal of justice -- to end conflicts in society as quickly as possible, with minimum cost, with the most effective and most satisfying. In the fall of 2009, our Ministry of Judiciary Reform Strategy, which was announced in accordance with the participation and opinion of all the participants involved in the European Union's accession process, was considered one of the main objectives to act on measures that prevent conflict and to develop alternative conflict solutions. In this regard, it was an important step in which the plans that allowed public supervision and law mediation could be passed by the discretion of our great Parliament, and not long ago with your participation. A democratic control mechanism that diversifies the struggle for our citizens' rights and the mediation agency, which allows some conflicts beyond the path of justice, will play an important role in carrying out the social purpose of justice. Mr. President, the bill, which has been held by the General Assembly today, which is called the 3rd judicial package, is a continuation of the regulations made so far in order to speed up judicial services. The bill, which includes regulations in the field of executive bankruptcy, punishment and administrative judicial legislation that will address many practical problems, also points out the content of the press that strengthens the right to defence, connects the right to freedom and security to stronger guarantees and extends the freedom of the press. So on the one hand, the effective functioning of the judicial system, on the other hand, is the needs of democratic society, the basic principles in preparation for the bill. Although the Emancipation and Bankruption Act, which dates back 80 years from its law, has had many changes during this time, its scope and impacts have been limited, while the institutional structure, which the law envisions, has been unable to respond to the need over time. The bill, which we have discussed, is intended to strengthen the number of staff in the executive offices as quality and quantity to provide a more modern service with a more modern organization structure. The inequity of household goods, such as household goods and household goods, or the inequity of household items that are difficult to maintain or live under the same roof, is included in the provisions of the bill, which can be made available to the debtor, the debtor, and the debtor. The revolutionary changes brought by this bill in terms of executive legislation and implementation include the executive agencies' provisions that cut off money and their regulations to transport foreclosures to the electronic environment. According to this, all collections and payments will be made through the bank, and executive offices will be completely eliminated, except in mandatory circumstances. The opportunity to move ads and proposals to the electronic medium will help reduce sales costs, while, on the other hand, ensure increased accession to auctions, making it easier to sell embarrassing goods from the real value. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the amendments the bill envisions in the field of administrative judicial legislation also include steps to address and speed up the judicial process. In this scope, some interim decisions can be made by the court's head or file judge in order to avoid wasting time in cases seen in the form of a delegation. In the courts, the petitions for citizens will be transferred by these offices and transferred to his court so that judges can focus on trial activities by getting rid of routine paperwork that causes significant work loss. The application also recommends some changes in the implementation of the cease-and-desist execution, which sparks debates and prolongs trial periods. Other than that, it is expected that the Court of State will be able to work on a fixed board for a three-year period, which ensures that the number of cases the State has considered as the first degree of trial can be reduced by a swift trial, and that the Court of State may be able to make a decision in the district administration courts, which does not need to be processed in the form of more than one delegation for a more effective and faster trial, as well as under a certain amount of prosecution. Mr. President, under the bill, some of the crimes involved in the criminal legislation have been turned into misdemeanors, and the authority to punish for some misdeeds has been removed from the judicial authorities and transferred to administrative authorities. In addition, new regulations are being brought to conclude some cases that are important to the workload more quickly and effectively. The violations of Turkish Penal Code, influence trade, privacy, freedom of privacy, communications, violation of the investigation's privacy, attempts to influence the judiciary, attempt to influence the fair trial, energy thefts and organisation membership, and criticisms from the European Union's progress reports and some international documents have been taken into consideration. I also stated at the beginning that the bill includes important arrangements that connect fundamental rights and freedoms to stronger guarantees. The amendment to Article 10 of Anti-Terror Law 3713 is also intended to bring to a reasonable point the restraining order of the defendant's case study authority. The envisioned arrangements for the arrest of the most important but most critical protection measures in the process of criminal reasoning aim to ensure that the right to freedom and security of the individual be linked to stronger guarantees. The amendments to Articles 100 and 101 of the Penal Code will no longer be issued for arrest warrants for crimes with no more than two years at the top limit, and the arrest warrants will now be based on concrete facts. Thus, the presence of strong suspicion of crime and the presence of arrests will be placed on a full conscience beyond the legal norms, and the arrest warrants will be written on the basis of concrete facts in which this measure is measured. On the other hand, the scope of the judicial control exercise has been expanded, making this establishment literally an alternative to arrest. Dear lawmakers, in light of all this data, the rate of detention in our country is 1.15 per cent of the annual, 3 million criminal cases. 27.1 per cent of the current presence in our prison consists of prisoners. A 76 per cent rate of prisoners in prisons is less than a year in prison. Three years and more are 3.22% of those who remain behind bars. Turkey is at a better level than many European countries, including the Netherlands, Italy, Switzerland, Belgium, Denmark and Greece, with the current rate of prisoners in prisons. In countries such as France, Sweden, Slovenia and Austria, the rate of arrest is close to us. But of course there are European countries that are better off than us. Given these current data, there is no doubt that our country will move to a far better place in the event the envisioned arrangements for arrest and judicial control are carried out. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, there is also an important arrangement for the expansion of the bill and the freedom of the press. Under the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights rulings, the amendment to Article 6 of the Anti-Terror Law to remove barriers to freedom of press and expression has been intended to end its implementation of a bow-stop measure, which has not yet been published, so its criminal content has not yet been published, which is intended to carry out the meaning of censorship. Again, a temporary clause added to Press Law 5187 will be invalidated by the fact that several courts have been issued on different dates, and some of which have been eliminated later, by the adoption of the law on printed artifacts. On the other hand, it is possible to postpone investigations and prosecutions or finalized sentence executions due to crimes committed by press and publication or by way of opinion and opinion and explanation, which require no more than five years in prison. Again, the bill aims to address criticism of amendments to Articles 285 and 288 of the Turkish Penal Code, about the violations of the investigation's privacy and attempts to influence the fair trial, particularly that the elements of crime expressed by the press are not apparent. Regarding Article 285, the fact that the crime is being committed through press and publication is no longer a cause for increase, and reports on investigation and prosecution proceedings are not considered criminal. Regarding Article 288, the elements of the crime are resolved by being made more concrete, and it is envisioned to be given a fine instead of a prison sentence. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the delay of justice, the address for the solution of social problems and conflicts, can make the judiciary a source of problems and conflict. Therefore, accelerating judicial proceedings without harmonising legal and judicial security is one of our basic priorities to ensure that our citizen's rights are reached without delay. I'd like to say that we've been starting to get positive and hopeful signs that, in this sense, will quickly come out of our agenda for a reasonable period of time because of the steps taken in line with this priority. Since September 2011, the number of files reached in the Supreme Court has been higher than the number of files that first came to the Supreme Court. Today, around 100,000 decisions are reached in the Supreme Court, which has reached about 40,000 decisions per month before that date. That's a two-and-a-half-fold increase. In January 2012, the number of cases expected at the Supreme Court was about 1,200,000, and the number was reduced to 880,000 as of June 2012. So the workload in the Supreme Court is rapidly melting. In the first five months of 2012, the number of files reached in the Supreme Court criminal offices is 3.5 times higher compared to the same period of the previous year; again, the number of files in all apartments has increased by about 2.5 times higher, the number of open scissors in the judiciary should not be overlooked as a sign that the stocks are closing and the stocks are melting. Mr. President, good lawmakers, the work of legislation towards the purpose of making the trial to a reasonable extent has brought our country to a period of close to international standards, as is the average of two years today. I'd like to take that time down to 12 months on average, including the final appeal phase of the ongoing work to speed up the trial, and share with you that we are determined to achieve that goal within two years. Our third judicial package, which we continue to discuss, is one of the complementary steps of walking toward this goal. This package aims to include provisions to speed up the judiciary, as well as to strengthen basic rights and freedoms, and to make changes that will positively affect freedom of press and expression. The European Court of Human Rights has made significant progress in preparations for the fourth package, as part of our work, which we co-operated with the Council of Europe, in light of the violation decisions made against Turkey, and this package has been presented to the Council of Ministers. In this package, measures have been drawn to the Council of Ministers to eliminate 2,404 violations and consequences that Turkey has taken since 1959, and to ensure that new violation decisions are no longer made, and, hopefully, it has been presented to the Council of Ministers for the development of our Parliament's autumn work. After all this work, I respectfully salute the General Assembly in Turkey with a wish to achieve a fair, effective, timely, reassuring justice.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0022par0332	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The first word on the entire bill on behalf of groups, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, is Ali Riza Ozturk, Mersin MP, Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0023par0336	Mr. President, I've been promised by the Republican People's Party Group on the Law Bill on the Retribution of Criminals Against Press Broadcast and Punishments in the Purpose of Enabled Judicial Services. I salute you all. My dear friends, there is a saying in our Anatolian saying, "Just don't trust your beauty, just a pimple, don't trust your wealth, just a spark." On the basis of the majority of the Justice and Development Party ruling Turkey's Grand National Assembly, it really upsets lawmaking and legislation; that is not true. The bill of law is being drafted -- the government is drafting the laws -- and it's coming to the commissions. In the commissions, it is quite true to ask opposition party lawmakers to correct with motions, but the initiative and effort of ruling party lawmakers to make amendments on the bill brought by their own government is actually not very elegant. That's not enough, it's coming to the General Assembly, and as it turns out in the General Assembly, there are no main elements that should actually be included in the bill, and these main elements are still being introduced in the Assembly General Assembly. It's not in accordance with the law-making technique, its manners, its customs, its customs, its customs, its laws. And look, about this package called the third judicial package, the government has pumped very serious, very high hopes into society, and expectations have been created. And in the meantime, suddenly, the agenda has been said to be the government's office for the past two or three days to lift private officials' courts, but such a serious issue has been discussed with a very narrow staff -- even some ministers at the ruling party do not participate in the debate -- without discussion in this Parliament, or even with relevant institutions and organisations -- and I think today they will bring their work on the motion. I'm the group spokesman for the Republican People's Party at the Justice Commission, and I don't know how to arrange it with special authorities, and I leave it to the Turkish people's discretion. So the elegant behavior here is that if such an arrangement is to be made, at least in that Parliament, we can all discuss it together with lawmakers or members of the parties with a group. Now, we're going to give you an opinion on something we don't know about. My dear friends, the government, in fact, have so far brought a lot of regulations under the name of the activation, acceleration of judicial services, or activation of public services. Look, I have a law like that, and this law is a bill designed to speed up judicial services. Again, here, another law has come in, and this is the bill for changing certain laws. Here, our friend from the ruling party, Mr. Yilmaz Junior, has made a promise, saying that the current bill and judicial services will be carried out quickly, efficiently and economically. Thank God it's been provided, and now a new package has arrived! Look, again, in order to speed up public services, some laws and laws have been passed to make changes in the decrees. My dear friends, so far, there have been a great number of judicial arrangements, packages brought in, but all of the arrangements have been brought in on the grounds that judicial services should be accelerated or activated, but the judiciary has not been activated, it has not been accelerated, it has not been launched, the problems in the judiciary have been scattered, it has increased. Each package has not brought law to this country, has not brought justice, has increased in lawlessness, pleasure. The number of arrested journalists who were around 30 at the time of the opening of the 1st judicial package was found at the time of the delivery of the third judicial package. I hope and wish that after this package is opened, the number of arrested MPs will not increase. My dear friends, this bill consists of 104 main items, 2 principal substances, and 106 essential substances, and 3 interim substances, including execution. In this regard, some laws are really required to make adjustments, to make changes in order to enable judicial services. In this bill, there is, in fact, everything you're looking for other than the fact that the judiciary has been activated, the right to a fair trial. There's only one thing that doesn't exist, and there's no purpose in the purpose of the law. There's a Bankruptcy Act in this law. I don't understand where the provisions of this Law of Bankruption speed up the judiciary, and what is intended to meet these problems and expectations in society. There's a Business Courts Act. I've also examined that substance, and it has nothing to do with speed up the trial. There is a law on foreigners' housing and travel in Turkey, the Law on Prosecutor's Law on Administrative Judiciary, the Law on Electricity Marketing, the Candy Law, the Law on Natural Gas Markets, the Oil Law, the Law on Banking, the Law on Electrical Accounts, so there is one. There's only one thing that doesn't exist, there's no justice. There is no justice in this package, my dear friends. Now, my friends, the workload of the judiciary will be increased because of the arrangements to make in this package in favour of law enforcement. The same is true in the case of a delay in cases and sentences related to crimes committed by the press through publication. So, really, with this package, the problems of the people are not solved. In fact, along with this package, there was an expectation that the problem of the arrested MPs would be resolved, as if widespread and systematic problems would be solved, but the problem would not be solved. The proposals proposed by the Republican People's Party for the solution and accepted by other opposition parties have been rejected by the Justice and Development Party. Since Act 5271 came into force, it has shown that seven years of practices have kept our country's agenda occupied by problems with arrests and other protection measures under the Penal Code. The numerous decisions of the ECHR stress that the detention institution in Turkey is not working well, that people are unjustly deprived of their freedoms. The European Court of Human Rights states that there is a widespread and systematic problem stemming from the judicial system and the law in Turkey, while deciding whether the courts should continue to arrest or arrest, the nature of the crime, the state of the evidence, use of an abstract, stereotyped reason for the content of the case, without conducting a controversial trial, without the grounds for arrests and arrests, as well as the implementation of judicial control systems outside arrests. They've asked the Turkish government to take the necessary measures to correct the situation, and they've asked many times. As highlighted by the Constitutional Court's decisions, the state of law can continue to exist on three basic principles. These are the fulfillment of human rights, the establishment of justice, and the securing of security. My dear friends, in modern law society, in countries dominated by the principle of democratic law, there is no need for swift judgment. We need a judgment that brings justice to the happiness of society. It is not really right to target a judicial system that makes society unhappy, which lacks justice by saying that I will make a quick judgment in Turkey. Indeed, it is not enough that the principles of the rule of law, which have essential principles, the fulfillment of human rights, the establishment of justice, and the establishment of security are in the legislation or in the Constitution. Therefore, in these days when the Constitutional studies are being conducted, our members of the Compromise Commission probably know that their efforts to write such fancy words to the Constitution would be of no use. The establishment of such a belief in society may prove that the state of law exists only in fact. Recently, there have been numerous concrete examples that require serious concern about human rights and freedom and violation of the right to a fair trial. Fair trial, human rights and freedoms and the concepts of justice have been reduced to the second position, not the original one. After the violation of basic human rights and freedoms, the superiority of these concepts should be accepted as the original before the mechanisms of compensation are run, and the necessary measures and control mechanisms should be effectively operated, but there is no such purpose in this bill. No matter what happens, I will find the material truth. In addition to the investigation of the truth and the punishment of the criminal, the defendant's protection is based on it. The lack of one of these principles results in a lack of judgment. Arrests are considered a prerequisite punishment in communities in which criminal reasoning was intended to punish the accused, which is considered a prerequisite punishment, whether imprisonment is arbitrary or indiscriminate in the terms of concrete events or exceed reasonable time are considered natural by primitive thought. In modern legal systems, however, arrest is considered a temporary measure to ensure that punishment comes to its goal, not a prerequisite. The arrest alone has yet to be finalized, since its guilt has kept the person from freedom before it is fixed, and is bound to strict conditions in both the Constitution and the laws and the international texts on human rights. In the criminal judgment of modern legal systems, arrests are applied only when all the conditions sought in the law occur and there is no other way to reach the outcome expected from arrests. The period of detention prescribed by the law is maximum. If the terms of the arrest have been eliminated or the goal of the arrest has been reached, the maximum deadlines in the law must be terminated immediately, even if they are not. According to Article 19 of the Constitution, those arrested have the right to be tried during a reasonable period and to ask for release during investigation and prosecution. The final joke of Article 141 of the Constitution shall be concluded with minimum costs and speed. According to the European Convention on Human Rights, it is necessary to prevent a person from committing or committing a crime or running away after committing a crime, and anyone caught or imprisoned for reasonable reasons has the right to be tried during a reasonable period of time or to be released during a criminal prosecution. In contrast to the legal regulations in our country, the practice eliminates the co-laws of crime, which can't be broken in unusual legal regimes, even in fascist dictatorial regimes. This is a note from the Justice and Development Party government that should be rationed. In this regard, we have a very long arrest period in light of the UAV application. The judicial mechanism in Turkey does not have a function that is suitable for carrying out justice; it does not have it despite the bags taken out; it cannot have it again if you edited it in a sack. In our country, the expression of justice is problematic both in quantity and in quality. No concrete or serious steps have been taken to speed up the judicial process. It's just that it looks like problems are being dealt with and problems are being solved. In the implementation of our country, imprisonment has been released from a temporary measure, turning into a verb punishment. These words have been expressed on this bench by Mr. President Abdullah Gul and have been asked by Parliament to take measures to address these problems, but so far the majority party has refused to take such precautions. The arrest has become an institution out of purpose and abused. The arrest has become a tool for the political government to intimidate its opponents, to silence them. The reason for the arrest can be assumed in the presence of strong suspicion of criminal crimes in the third chapter of Article 100 of the Penal Code. The regulation began to be understood and applied, as if it were an automatic arrest warrant. Even if there is a crime involved in the joke, even though there is no arrest warrant, even if the catalog in any crime is not among the crimes of the joke, the presence of more than two people is described as an organisation, which makes it a joke and goes to arrest. In accordance with the constitution and international agreements, freedom is the main person's freedom, the limitation is the exception. This arrangement has been reduced to mandatory arrest for every person brought before the judge by criminal charges mentioned in the article. In the course of the investigations, the arrest has been decided in advance, and the evidence is collected later, and there are resumptions, but in the meantime, the most basic rights and freedoms of individuals are restricted. The European Court of Human Rights states that people cannot be arrested or sentenced for reasons such as the weight of the crime, such as the quality of the crime. The CMK 100/3 joke is still not being removed, although the Law No. 5271, which brings a sense of the crime model by counting the crimes, has been shown by experiments in the application where the purpose of the crime model is not implemented. The European Convention on Human Rights, which is a part of our internal law, according to the last joke of our Constitution, which requires the spirit of the 19th Article of our Constitution, and the long arrest period of our country's implementation, is clearly in violation of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is part of our internal law. This has resulted in the fact that our country has been convicted many times in front of the European Court of Human Rights, and will continue to give birth. Therefore, it must be the ultimate goal to end the state of arbitrary and unlimited imprisonment, but I'm afraid that's not in this package, my dear friends. For crimes written in CMK 251/C, and for crimes committed in the field of heavy criminal court, the period of imprisonment is indeed far above the time prescribed by the European Court of Human Rights and undermines justice and undermines the public conscience. In this regard, he has not been able to carry out the purpose of the arrangement earlier in 2005, and with a non-libertarian interpretation of five-year arrests in five-year-old and special officials in five-year-old crimes that have been considered three years in severe criminal court with some comments and evaluations in the application. My dear friends, truly, the ideological approach rather than human rights is dominant. Here is a sovereign understanding based on the law of the state, which is based on the law of the state, as a continuation of the state tradition in Turkey, rather than the legal state based on the citizens of the judicial process. Dear lawmakers, in this package we're talking about, really, there is no effort or initiative to resolve the problems that society is expecting today. Today, in fact, the system of arrest has scorched the entire Turkey. Today, this Parliament will complete the first year of the 24th century, and will take a vacation in the coming days. But eight members of this Parliament, eight MPs, are still under arrest. Although there is no court order to deprive them of their freedom and there are no grounds for arrest, these MPs are unjustly arrested. The first joke of Article 83 of the Constitution stipulated parliamentary immunity. The second joke of Article 83 of the Constitution (the Constitution) provides exceptions to parliamentary immunity. Congressman's immunity concerns that an investigation and prosecution of a member of parliament cannot be carried out. Therefore, the exception of parliamentary immunity is that an investigation and prosecution can be carried out against an MP for the crimes he committed in Article 14 of the Constitution. Thus, the arrest is indeed an independent process of the main judicial process. Arrest decisions, decisions on the continuation of the arrest and objections regarding them, and all decisions made regarding this objection are truly independent of the main process. Here, the ongoing investigation and prosecution of an MP is one thing; it is another thing to issue an arrest warrant on the grounds that arrests exist. In international law and law, since the suspicion of arrests, escapes and blackening evidence can be submitted, what evidence do these lawmakers have or how will they escape? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's actually a violation of national will. The fact that an arrangement has not been made, indeed, is one of the basic shortcomings in this regard. We'll have motions as Republican People's Party to discuss the law. All of our proposals will really be aimed at solving these problems according to the sign of the ECHR.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0024par0363	Mr. President, give me a minute.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0025par0364	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Time's up. Please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0026par0366	Thus, it is our main goal to enforce the shortcomings of the bill and to enforce the expectations of society. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0025par0369	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Mr. Ayla Akat, Batman MP on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akat.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0027par0373	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the BDP Group to discuss the general issue of the Bill of Law on the purposes of activating Judicial Services 277 and the Responsibility of Crimes Against Press Broadcast Road and Postponing Penalties. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, of course we have criticism about the time of the bill's arrival. It's unfortunate that he was brought in on the last day of the last week of the year. However, the public's greatest expectation is democratisation, and it has repeatedly been the explanation of all opposition parties at the point that it can be done with a road cleaning equivalent to the constitutional process, but the political government has left the third to the final week of the year, after its 1st and 2th judicial package. In terms of history, we think it's unfortunate, given the process of discussion. Another dimension: we have a review of the contents of the package. The package also envisions changes in many different laws -- which have just been passed -- from executive bankruptcy law to criminal law, from private law of states to business law, from business law to administrative law. This has become a classic of the AKP (AKP), bringing changes to Turkey's agenda in some fundamental laws, even with a bag of laws and a sack of laws. The bag is not with the law, but with the original laws that must be changed, with the original laws, with the review and reviewing, and with the General Assembly, we repeat that NGOs must be evaluated and evaluated. Again, if the judiciary, the valued lawmakers, as it is known, is one of the three sacs of the parliamentary system, and democratisation as a whole finds life in all organs, it makes sense. Unfortunately, it is impossible for us to talk about the process of democratisation if the process of legislation, execution and judicial action is lacking democratic values. There are serious problems in these three areas in our country. The minimum democratic principles in judicial bodies are still followed by the state. In 2007, Mr. Mithat Sancar found that the overwhelming majority of judges and prosecutors first considered the state's bekat perspective when deciding or processing the profile of judges and prosecutors in Turkey. We have seen and experienced this antidemocratic mentality over and over in the past five years. The Democratic Society Party, which we previously belong to, has been shut down on grounds that do not comply with universal law; six of our MPs, hundreds of our executives, and thousands of our members are still in prison because of the reflection of this mentality. Again, with this mentality, Mr. Hatip Dicle, who received more votes than most of the MPs here, we think is still the legitimate MP of Diyarbakır, has been democratized. Again, we are no longer following the number of proceedings prepared for our group, lawmakers. Dear lawmakers are undoubtedly not solely responsible for the activities of the law, and political power is as responsible for the negative consequences as they are. It is the obligation of the law to determine the area of action of the judiciary, or to draw the legal framework. It is a demagogue that the AKP's government has often applied for to judge all responsibility based on the principle of separation of powers when it does not adopt the necessary democratic laws and does not suit its needs. Who today issued the Anti-Terror Law, which was based on the eradication of the entire organisation of Kurdish society, in 2005? Again, the AKP is in a position today that despite all our proposals and proposals, it does not lift the Anti-Terror Law and reduce it to universal measures. For these reasons, it is not possible for us to evaluate judicial activities independently from the government. As it is known, today we are in the process of building a new Constitution. Despite all the antidemocratic practices of the AKP, we see this as an important opportunity to address Turkey's permanent problems and to address the state's democratic functioning. We've been offering from a long time to clear the road so that this process can function in a healthy manner and to create the atmosphere needed for the establishment of social peace, and we've been recommending a quick change in law enforcement. This bill, commonly referred to as the third judicial package, could play an important role in this sense, but the content of the current bill is sadly far from playing the role. Why? Because the AKP looks like it's doing it, pretending to fight military custody, and in practice, it reproduces militant mentality. He treats public workers like he recognizes collective contracts and union rights, and basically he ignores the right to strike, which is the basis of the collective contract for the worker, and bans it at jet speed, as in the Turkish Airways strike. He pretends to apply the principle of positive discrimination for women, but he simply has no patience for free women. As we see in this law, it acts as if it democratizes and activates the judiciary, and as we're going to explore, this bill does not function. Dear lawmakers, the bill -- as we've established -- contains changes that will affect different areas of law. The most important of these are the changes envisioned in the Turkish Penal Code and Anti-Terror Law, which will directly affect social problems and solutions. The main skeleton of these laws aims to bring society into one form. It is the principle of these laws to suppress political and social opposition, to see all differences as a threat, to limit freedom of thought and expression, to disregard the freedom of organisation. Now the government has seen the need to change these laws. The changes of these laws and the removal of certain substances are important steps to be taken in terms of democratisation. First, we need to stress the damage and consequences caused by some of the articles of the Turkish Penal Code and Anti-Terror Law. Throwing water bottles at police, opening banners, three years of punishment, joining a rally, chanting slogans, clapping, singing, singing each one of them is a result of this mentality. This mentality is at the same point as the mentality that punished Moses Anter for whistling in Kurdish during the 80 military coup. It is also useful to apply numbers to see what kind of picture this insight reveals. According to the March 31, 2012 report by the General Directorate of Criminals and Inquisitors, 5,124 persons of political crimes are arrested and 3,846 others are convicted. There is no doubt that there is a significant problem with the functioning of democracy in a country with 8,970 political prisoners. In 2005, there were 31,012 prisoners in prisons, 24,858 prisoners, 55,870 prisoners, 54,792 prisoners in March 2012, 77,587 prisoners, 132,369 people in total. In seven years, a 150 per cent increase does not only show the level of hail in prisons, but also reveals the destruction that TMK and TCK have created in society. Dear MPs, the arrangement that we see as the most important of the current amendments is, of course, the provision of Article 6 and 7 of Article 220 of the Turkish Penal Code. A reduced sentence is envisioned, and discretion is left to the judges at the discount. Of course the judges appreciated it. The implementation of Articles 6 and 7 of Article 220 is not the result of the law of law; it is the result of the law of law. In 2008, it was reported that it would go to the Criminal General Assembly because of a file seen in Diyarbakır, and that it would be punished in more than one way, as a result of the same crime, although it was not a member of the organisation, it was also considered a member of the organisation, and a prerequisite for being punished in this framework. There is a law of law, and from 2008 until today, Parliament has not taken a position, has not fulfilled its responsibility. At the same time, he sees the method of dealing with the results revealed at a reduced sentence. The logic of being a member of an organization without a member of the organization is not a sentence that can be followed by any principle of criminal and criminal law. What's the point here? It's a way of suppressing all revolutionary democratic forces that have been fighting for years to end the violence, and that's the way it lives with these laws, but the conclusion that comes out with these laws today forces the government to force it to the extent of its capacity in prison, to force it to the extent of its perception in society. A student of society, an engineer, a lawyer, a doctor, a politician, could they all be terrorists? There is no such reality, but today, at the point of escape from this reality, there is a reduction in punishment and, again, an arrangement to leave it to the judge. Of course, we underline once again that the Article 220 of the Turkish Penal Code must be lifted altogether, and that this legal freak must be removed immediately. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the judges immediately appreciated it. It is important to point out that as soon as the current bill was on the Ministry of Justice website, the criminal courts in Diyarbakır -- we had a chance to follow it -- began to punish it from the upper border. When you punish him from the upper border, he falls to an equal level, as in the current arrangement, when you appreciate him by half. What does that mean? Whatever we do, if the legislature doesn't stop holding the ear like this, if it doesn't stop turning and holding it, if it doesn't get rid of the law quickly, unfortunately, the consequences of this arrangement will be more difficult to deal with tomorrow than today. Again, valuable lawmakers, we have stated over and over the past year, and the previous year, the arrangement in 2008, after the court's testimony has been released: it is clear what must be done, and it must be removed from Article 220. The conflict in the essence of matter is not a contradiction that can be resolved by changing the matter, and, again, in parallel with other laws, terrorism, organisation, membership in the organisation, the organization's propaganda must be redefined. No one who is not in a hierarchical and uninterrupted relationship should be considered a member of the organization. That's what universal law measures require. No one should be admitted to crime on behalf of the organisation, even though they are not members of the organization, unless they make concrete and serious contributions. Aiding and abetting the organization must be organised in a different matter. However, we may be able to take a step forward, at least for the sake of the process, where a number of consequences have been inflicted on the public conscience and caused by the arrangement, which is what we're talking about here today. Dear lawmakers, again, are punished in Article 73 of the bill, and as a member of the terrorist organization. Instead, the declaration in the regulation is lifted, but in the same way as in 220, it is considered a member of the terrorist organization. This is what must be done both in Article 220, and in Article (2/2) of TMK, which should not be counted as a member of an organization if no one is a member of a terrorist organization. As long as the connection is undetected, considering it a member of the organization reveals some of the consequences that we face today. Again, in Article 74 of the bill, the confidentiality resolution is legalised. Why do we call it legalization? Because there is also this: all documents are given according to Article 153, and, of course, the testimony report, even if there is a confidentiality clause, is called a non-disclosure report, and there is absolutely no confidentiality decision on the procedures in which the subject or the suspect is authorized to be present. And yet what happens? The special authorities of the criminal courts, yes, on the basis of the TMC, do not even allow the interrogation of lawyers to be handed over to them. How do we explain this? We've got TMK based on that. There's a bar here, and there's a very clear verdict here. This is not a process based on TMK. How can a lawyer not be given an example of his client's documents? It's being done, it's being tolerated, and what's to be done here? Let's at least limit it to three months. Give it three months, make it official. It's the government's last-term policy. Every practice he puts into the verb, they take out a law and try to make it official, and they go into the effort. For the last year, we've come across different examples of this, and if they can't handle it, they're trying to get the law out of it. Today, in İzmir, Ankara, İstanbul, Diyarbakır, yes, lawyers cannot access documents concerning their clients. The way to fight this is to open the way, to remove the relevant elements of the TMK. The way to fight this is not to find an official cover for the illegality that exists. Dear lawmakers, we will be able to assess the freedom of press and expression on the basis of the interim clause one, but there is also a delay because there is a statement of thought, freedom of expression, and a statement. Now how can we deal with this by delaying? The number of arrested persons detained in Turkey as part of freedom of thought and freedom of expression and freedom of organisation again is clear, in the middle, constant with the proportion of fullness in prison. We shall defer their punishment once and for all. Let's set a limit, and we'll delay the punishments of those who are punished for these crimes, who have been indicted and prosecuted until the beginning of 2012. And after that? As long as these laws exist, as long as these laws exist, as long as there are antidemocratic laws in front of freedom of thought and expression, can we deal with the consequences? We can't do this. It's very clear, and it's what needs to be done. All provisions that limit freedom of thought and expression must be lifted. You may have found a partial solution for this by delaying today, you might say, postpone it, but tomorrow you'll reach a point where you won't be able to deal with the consequences. The consequences of assuming a society as a terrorist, a terrorist for expressing its opinions, because it is organized, will be too heavy for this community, for the society of Turkey, not the method of delaying it, precious MPs. Again, valuable lawmakers, at the point of the secrecy of communications, yes, the punishment is increasing. In this regard, the bill envisions increased punishments for violating the secrecy of communication. It is also added to the provision of violation of the law. So in order for this to be considered a crime, there would have to be a violation of the law in addition to the fact that it's against one's will. In 79 and 91, the record of informal conversations also includes increased punishment and increased punishment for the violation of private life. However, there are changes in the administration's law that are being adopted, which again envisions significant changes in the field of administrative law. As it is known, the basic principle of being a state of law is that the process and actions of the state are in accordance with the law and the law. Under the rule of legality, every action of the state must be based on the law, and the control of this situation will be carried out on the basis of justice. This audit must be comprehensive, efficient and fast, according to the rule of law state. It should also be based on the principle of clarity. The democratic and modern state tradition of the years is shaped in this direction. The 125th Article of the 82 Constitution has generally drawn the area of the administrative judiciary. Under Article 44 of the bill, the search for the country's diameter requirement for the annulment of regulatory proceedings to enter the area of the Court is, of course, a legal obligation for prosecutors to submit opinions in the first-degree files, and to make it a legal obligation for the plaintiffs to submit their TC ID numbers to the petition. We're going to open this issue with our motions on this issue, but we'd especially like to share our thoughts at the point of making it difficult for the decision to stop the execution. The decision to stop the administration depends on making up for the difficult and impossible damage and being openly against the law. The new arrangement added the conditions for the decision to be made, in which the administration's defence or defence period expires. This is contrary to the nature of the decision to stop the execution because the defence period prevents the court from jumping to conclusions. This will interfere with effective judicial control. It is clear that limiting the power of the courts to stop the execution is contrary to Article 125 of the Constitution. The request to stop the execution has been denied and the administration's defence is not conditioned to be expected. This is an arrangement in favor of the administration. However, administrative judicial legislation must be on a citizen's axis. This arrangement will nullify the administrative judiciary. What needs to be done is to make arrangements to minimize loss of rights. The decision cannot be made to stop the execution without the defence. If it is to be insisted on, at least the court must be given the authority to shorten the administration's defence period and determine the form of notification. Dear lawmakers, there are also certain regulations in the Law on Bankruptcy. Some of these changes show job load mitigating qualities that allow the process to be done quickly and safely, but some are even contrary to the Constitution. However, in the first article of the bill, we have an objection to the regulation of the rights of equity, because it is a constitutional decree which shall be carried out by law, not by regulations. And we're going to make another motion on that. Dear lawmakers, no matter how much this law has been changed in 1932, it is not in its prime state. The main skeleton of the law prevents it from finding a positive reflection of changes made in implementation. Although the renewal of this law has been on the agenda for almost every government period over the years, unfortunately, it has been satisfied with changes in certain substances at all times. Datated habits have imposed partial changes rather than radical change. It is also clear that it is important in terms of the social state's principle that the law maintains the balance of debtors and debtors in business relations. It would hurt the public conscience to have this balance broken in favor of one side. Dear lawmakers, as a result, this bill brought by the government seems to be empty. We're dealing with a bill that doesn't touch the main source of problems, it's looking for temporary solutions, it's going to deepen the current problems from place to place. This also shows the political power's point of view of problems. It's about studying the public's expectations and pretending to be the answer to those expectations. Editings do not contain solutions. The activation of the judiciary is neither accelerated nor legally fundamentally democratized, but the bill contains content that would not be in harmony with the legal state. If the bill passes through the General Assembly at all costs, it will not serve democratisation, even if there are partial positive regulations. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0028par0408	Thank you, Mr. Akat. Third speaker for the groups, Mr. Faruk Bal on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0029par0412	Mr. President, I stand before you to announce the views of the National Party of Action on the draft bill, which is defined as the Third Judicial Reform Package. I salute the grand jury. At the beginning of my words, I have recently blessed our martyrs who have fallen one by one into the holy land of our country. While maintaining hope for the pilots of our plane that have yet to be found, I ask for patience and patience for their families and for the Turkish nation. My dear friends, the sensitivity and most important issue of the National Movement Party is that our citizens can protect their rights, law, justice and fundamental freedoms, as well as express their thoughts in the Turkish state and Turkish nation's background. Here we approach the bill in your presence within the scope of this basic principle. The bill includes amendments to legislation in the areas of labour bankruptcy, criminal and administrative judiciary, which bring provisions for delaying prosecution and sentences in crimes committed through the press. In general, when we evaluate the bill, the execution includes partial positive improvements in bankruptcy, criminal and administrative judicial legislation, which raise serious concerns in the field of punishment and administrative judiciary. In particular, there are regulations in the interim Articles 73, 84, 104, and Article 1 of the bill that can produce a serious result that we have described as "affected affliction." In Article 73 of the bill, the sentence of those who commit crimes on behalf of the organisation, even if they are not part of the terrorist organization, is lifted from the organisation to one-third of those who are not a member of the organisation, while those who commit crimes on behalf of the organisation and those who help the organisation intentionally and willingly are not part of the hierarchical structure. Article 13 of the Anti-Terror Law (b) with the third joke of Article 104 of the draft bill is being lifted from effect, a way for the release of the sentence in connection with terrorist crimes, the transfer of the prison sentences to alternative sanctions and postponement. If the bill is passed by law, the valued lawmakers will be subject to city buses, business shops, trade shops, and other sanctions that have been burned, injured, and damaged by many, if they cannot be identified as members of a terrorist organization, they will not be punished, they will not be punished, they will be reprieved, or other sanctioned by the law. The injuries taken by the security forces, the burns of those injured by the Molotov cocktail, the tradesman's financial and spiritual losses on the broken streets, will be spared. Since this clause has been removed, a more dire situation will arise because the change is in favour, which will be incumbent on others who had previously been convicted, and the workload of the judiciary will be doubled. The same will happen here, just as a court-martial that has been determined by the 2004 amendment to the Turkish Penal Code must be reconsidered on separate levels of the judiciary three or four times. My dear friends, if the bill is passed, it appears to be a covert, partial pardon to the members of this terrorist organization. It is a fraud against the will of the High Assembly that a veiled and partial pardon should be presented in front of you in the form of delaying or turning sentences into sanctions, in the pursuit of the provisions prohibiting the pardon of the Constitution. On the other hand, crimes committed through the press until December 31st 2011 with the temporary clause of the bill have been removed from the jurisdiction of courts and judges, and a sentence on delaying sentences and trials by the will of parliament has been passed. By this judgment, it is well known that certain people are being granted forgiveness. We're guessing who these particular individuals might be, but since the Justice Department has made this bill, they need to show who's going to benefit from it, who's going to benefit from it, and what verbs are going to take advantage of it, the House needs to know that they can make a solution to it, or they can make a decision to make it according to it. My dear friends, the reason for the bill is that this bill is designed to speed up the trial. That word is freaky, because whenever the Justice Department brings in a bill, it's named after fancy words, such as the speed of judgment, or the speed of judgment. However, the law he has already established has unfortunately not been able to reform the judiciary or to increase the speed of the judiciary. I'd like to ask the Minister in the presence of the Supreme Assembly: you've changed the shape of the judiciary with a constitutional amendment. The reason for this change was the decision to step up the judiciary, and there was reform for the judiciary. The result, as it now bothers you, has become disturbing to all parts of society, but the question is: the Constitutional amendment has been made, has the trial accelerated? We can't see an accessible speed. As we can't see, neither can our citizens. On the other hand, Law 6110 was predicted to speed up the trial. The law's out, the judgment's up? If it's accelerated, how many miles per hour, or how many cases a month, did it gain by finishing how many cases a year? You have issued the Law on the acceleration of judicial services 6217, which is the law of speeding up the judiciary on its name. Apart from being back on the roller coaster, what speed has the judgment taken, except for the death of more than 30 people on a speeding train? A amendment to Code 657 was also intended to speed up the judiciary, but rather to be kidnapped from the will of an organizational structure and staffing parliament, rather than speed up the judiciary, it has been brought to trial by the decision of the Council of Ministers. My dear friends, there is no expedited judgment. No one's thinking of speeding up the trial. I express to you clearly and clearly that there is a purpose for politicalization of the judiciary. The goal has been achieved step by step. The HSYK was first seized, followed by special authorities, then by the Supreme Court, then by the Supreme Court, followed by a re-designation of the Supreme Court, and the judiciary, in fact, was abandoned to the initiative of a certain group as part of a perspective within the scope of the horse's glasses. Thus, the Justice and Development Party initially took advantage of it. First, the appearance of a judgment as a weapon of a horror empire was used as a means of intimidation over AKP murky and opponents. In cities, merchants, representatives of NGOs, businessmen, ordinary citizens expect justice to be a safe haven. For what reasons will I be taken out of my home in the morning, interfering in my private life, and being arrested for what fabricated reasons? This concern has caused serious concern over opposition political authorities, and has been used by a serious transition, intimidation, intimidation operation. This, on the other hand, has been used as a major means of pressure on municipalities in local governments, as people who think differently, think differently within the judiciary, who are truly independent, really neutral, have carried out their own judicial duties. In Adana, Eregli, recently in the Belt district of Antalya, the mayors of the National Movement Party are among their most important examples. My dear friends, it has come to pass that a city worker in Eregli has committed suicide and had to commit suicide after entering the prison with the frightening properties of this judgment. The conscience of this will not be free from the moral responsibility of the life that committed suicide, including the HSYK, the judges who ruled there and the prosecutor and the law enforcement force who carried out this investigation. So the judgment has been corrupted, my dear friends. The balance and control mechanisms of the judiciary itself have been corrupted. The judiciary has also broken the balance and control mechanism of parliamentary democracy, the separation of forces in the legislative, executive and judicial trilogy. As a result, the judgment has been brought before you as a guardian. In the past, this judgment used as a unilateral sword against the opponents and the mulims of the AKP (AKP) and used as an instrument of the empire of fear has now become a sword that cuts both sides. As revealed by the MIT operation, the Justice and Development Party has been able to protect its own supporters from this frightening feature of the judiciary, based on the majority of votes in parliament, as it has previously shown in connection with the crimes committed in some sports activities, by establishing special laws for them, freeing them from this frightening attitude of the judiciary. What about the other simple citizens besides these? But what should those who have been wronged besides these do? Other than that, what good is someone who's trying to get burned by the dryer as an age? So, my dear friends, we need to put justice back where it belongs in a manner that is consistent with the nature of justice, with the precision of justice. Its place is this: The judge must be transformed into a structure that, as expressed in Mecklelle, judge, monument, text, future status, is free of all feelings, thoughts, political bias, and no external influence. That's what's supposed to happen in private court. In the past, the Justice and Development Party believed and trusted that everything that had been done, including special authorities, was being transformed into a sword that cut both sides, as it appeared in the MIT case, and now the special authorities have placed the courts on the target board. My dear friends, aside from the mistakes made by private authorities, aside from the individual errors that Turkey has been subjected to, with the threat of terrorism, the threat of separatist terrorism, as well as the citizens of the countries outside the country as we have created by drug lords, we need special authorities in the fight against gangs of threat and criminal organizations for profit, but not like this. My dear friends, special courts of authority must be rehabilitated. Special authority courts, individual judges, need to be removed from a position where they can decide where to commit a crime. There's only one way to do that, and that's to create their own internal control and balance mechanisms within the judiciary. So, as Mr. Pestilence said, a judge should not feel like God in a special court of authority. Again, as the Prime Minister said, a judge of a private court should not be a threat to let the Prime Minister in. Therefore, the President complains that the special authorities have made individual errors and that the Penal Code in their hands has used the powers of 250 and the following clauses mercilessly, wrongful arrests, long arrests, and arrests have turned into punishment. The president is the head of state and nation, and his complaint must be taken to the fort somehow. The state's Prime Minister is complaining -- he is also the leader of the Justice and Development Party -- the state's Minister of Justice is complaining, the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is complaining, the public is complaining. Those who are with you, as well as those who are with you, are complaining, but do not act in judgment. It does not move the HSYK hair that should be processed about judges and prosecutors who are doing wrongs; rather, it makes judges who touch HSYK's Zulfuya, who make decisions, to release them. I can give you dozens of examples. The most recent - 2,300 - is in the presence of the Minister of Justice, who has been nominated in front of them in the judge's decree, in the official newspaper, where they have put the prosecutors. My dear friends, the Minister of Justice is the head of this Council, he must correct this lawlessness, and correct it however he can. If we need our help, we, the opposition party, are prepared to contribute to the justice ministry's proposals for this purpose, the bill of law, to the truly independent, truly neutralisation of the judiciary. My dear friends, within this scope, HSYK had previously closed 136 courthouses in Turkey, now closing 128 more courts, leaving 652 of the 700 existing courthouses. The total number of closed courthouses is 348, and the judgment has gotten pretty fast. The rest of the 348 courthouses have been closed, Mr. Secretary, and if we shut them down immediately, there would be nothing wrong with the judiciary, just as the former Minister of National Education would say, "If the schools are closed, Turkey will not have a problem with education." Now, in 2004, the court was closed in nine districts of Konya, in Çeltik, in Tuzluçı, in Emirgazi, in southern Turkey, in Tashkent, in Barnlı, in Akören, in Derebucaka, in Yalihük. Citizens with legal problems here go to neighbouring counties. In addition, the courts of Doğanhisar, Sarayönu, Altınekin and Hüyük districts have been closed. Later, the decision to close the courts of Doğanhisar and the Court of Saray was waived. If the decision to close was correct, Mr. Minister, the decision to rescind the closure in the districts of Doğanhisar and Sarajevo is wrong. No, if the restraining order is correct, why are you shutting down other counties? My dear friends, these closing decisions only reveal the obligation to go to another county as long as the trials continue, not only to the defendant, not to the defendant, not to the plaintiff, but to the witnesses and everyone involved in that case. Now I ask: How will the Eceabat court be closed, and the citizen go to Çanakkale? How will this citizen get from Narman to Oltu? Could the cause of this persecution be a judge's saving for the people of the closed courts, could it be a prosecutor's saving? The most important service of a state is justice. Can a citizen be tortured for a small price? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, in your political jargon, there's a Garson state. Later, after changing shirts, you changed that expression, which is the state that serves the community. If the state that serves the citizen does not offer the services of justice, then come to me, and I will give you justice. This does not welcome your political past, nor your party program, which you have declared, nor your government program, nor the right nor the law, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0030par0443	Thank you, Mr. Honey. On behalf of the groups, the last speaker is Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın, deputy chairman of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0031par0447	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have made a pledge on behalf of our group on Bill 278, and I salute your grand delegation. Dear friends, of course, I listened carefully and carefully to the conversations of all the groups here, and I followed, and I saw that there was an injustice on one side, and there are certain right parties. If it wasn't for the right parties, we wouldn't be bringing this package in right now. Of course, it's a fact that cases have lengthened, the judiciary has been slow, and therefore there are problems caused by the lateness of justice, and at the point of solving these problems, some very serious steps have been taken so far, so let's not do anything unfair. Therefore, this package, prepared to ensure that judicial services can be maintained more effectively, more efficiently, faster, also brings very serious principles to the sake of democratisation, as well as the acceleration of the judiciary. When I really listened to our friends just now, even though all the public knew where the AK PARTY was carrying the bar at the point of democratisation, I sensed some injustice here, in that sense. In particular, I would like to say, dear friends: Of course, as man remembers some things, he remembers them as they are reminded. You're really forgetful; we forget about ten years ago very quickly, about ten years ago in Turkey, but unfortunately we forget about it very quickly.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0032par0453	Mr. Ahmet, there's no place to sleep in the prisons today. You were a kid ten years ago.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0031par0454	Demands don't stop, needs don't stop. Dear friends, look, I've sat down, I haven't said anything yet.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0032par0456	But if you talk like that, you'll ruin the peace of this House.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0031par0457	Wait, I didn't say anything, I didn't say anything yet. Wait a second... don't provoke it already.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0032par0458	Remember, there's no room in prisons, so you've made laws for check offenders!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0031par0459	Yesterday, dear friends, we spent a lot of things here that we couldn't imagine, that we couldn't even discuss, that they wanted to be talked about, that we had to make arrangements, that we had to do them together.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0033par0460	Yeah, people who want free education get thrown in jail, how do you talk?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0031par0461	We've broken all the taboos, dear friends, we've eliminated all the custody...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0033par0462	Oh, you really went to law school?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0034par0463	You just got custody.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0031par0464	...and unfortunately, while we remove these taboos, eliminate these custodys...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0033par0465	The shopkeeper was throwing away the cash register, and now he's hanging himself in the House, in the House!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0031par0466	Opposition parties, rather than gaining the speed of democracy, were unfortunately unable to contribute to these expansion processes that we've made, and they didn't want to give them because of the precious friends...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0033par0467	My hair, my hair! It's not an opening.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0031par0468	Look, I'm going to say one thing, since you forced me, I was actually going to skip it. Here, we, the package we spent at the September 2010 referendum, is a fundamental democratic package.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0035par0469	A lot, a lot!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0036par0470	You're trapped under that package, you don't know what to do.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0031par0471	It wouldn't have happened then, but we said yes. During the negotiations of this package, dear friends, here are the statements of all three opposition parties. A group didn't even trust the MPs in their group here and send them behind the scenes, a whole group said no, and a group boycotted them. Now, look, I'd like to talk to you about a few things from those arguments. I'm just saying, let the public know because while we're making such beautiful openings, while you're taking further steps at the point of our people's freedoms, you're actually here to find a little bit of them and whip us about it, unfortunately, what we're doing, you're trying to stop. Look, one of the provisions in that package was the temporary 15th article, and we said that if we removed it, the 12th of September, the coupgers would be tried. Well, what did you say then? Look, I'm reading from the text, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, president of the People's Party of Cumhuriyet, that with the removal of the Interim 15th article, Kenan Evren and his friends cannot be tried. The Prime Minister isn't telling the public the truth. Their own leader is deceiving his own base. Did they ask you for an account or not? No. Well, I'm asking you now: did we ask you for an account? Did we ask? Yeah.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0037par0475	What did you ask for? Let's get this over with.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0031par0476	Again, dear friends, former Chief of the JASAV, at the same time, Deputy Chairman of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Emine Gülter Tarhan: I wish they were tried, but I don't believe. It's an illusion. They're selling the illusion of freedom. I really don't see how they can be judged by this arrangement. Yeah, he's on trial.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0038par0478	You're fooling the public, he didn't come to court.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0031par0479	Again, dear friends, the president of the National Movement Party, Mr. State Garden, says before the public vote,
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0039par0480	Gardener, Gardener! Tell me the truth.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0040par0481	It's not garden, it's garden.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0031par0482	Before the People of the State Garden vote, he states: "They cannot judge September 12th. It's a trick. It must not be forgotten that one day everyone will see and realize that on September 12, 1980, the corrupt mindset, which broke the scales of justice on September 12, 2010, is clustered in the same area and carrying similar goals. Yes, everyone sees today, everyone understands, everyone makes a very clear decision who did the right thing.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0040par0484	You look like you're judging.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0041par0485	We'll see about the court results. You'd be ashamed to say that.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0031par0486	Again, dear friends... of course, I can extend them, but I won't prolong them. I also have a short quote from BDP's boycott statement. Those friends of ours, they talk about democracy, they talk about freedom, and they boycott this freedom package.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0042par0487	You're pretending to be everything.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0031par0488	The BDP states in its boycott statement that the statement that the boycott will be dealt with by September 12th is the biggest lie of all.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0043par0489	They're right.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0031par0490	The AKP, in this statement, exploits and harvests the victims of September 12th. So, fellas, who picked the rants? Who lied? Who did the truth? Who stood by what you said? On that day we will judge. We said, "He is being tried today." All of you, all of you, three groups... friends, there's a lot of them, but I'm not going to go into too much detail. Dear friends, yesterday cannot be judged. What you said yesterday cannot be arrested, cannot be questioned. What you said today, they all answer in the face of justice. Everyone is equal before the law. Whoever commits a crime in this country, no matter his title, his position, whatever his position, has to answer to the law, and we will answer to it, and we will follow it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0044par0494	You commit corruption every day, theft every day. You're stealing from the law.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0045par0495	You're all criminals.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0046par0496	Let's hear it...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0047par0497	Again, dear friends, of course, I'm not going to count the steps taken here at this democratization point, but I'd like to enter the contents of the package. Please, if you'll listen carefully... This package should not be contested, this package needs support. This package is a package that develops the rights and freedom of our people, a package that paves the way for freedom, a package that eliminates obstacles.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0048par0499	Read it again, read it again. We read it and came here.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0047par0500	So this package may have been delayed, but we've passed two from yesterday to today, and today we're passing the third package. But when you look at the point of democratization, dear friends, there are some very serious changes that have been happening since November 2002, when we started preparing our party schedule. The world is spinning, the needs are changing, the demands are changing, they're changing. What's luxury for us yesterday can be a necessity for us today. Therefore, the legislation must be updated in the face of these requirements, as well as in the face of these requirements. In the globalized world, let's not see too much of this democracy for our own people, friends, and let's not see too much of it while even the Arabs now have this democracy together with the Arab Spring.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0049par0502	What democracy? Is there a democracy in Iraq or a democracy in Libya?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0047par0503	Dear lawmakers, one of the most important goals of states since the past has been the active functioning of justice systems because it is only possible that social life can be maintained in peace and security. The most important effort we have today is the creation of a well-functioning justice system. What we understand from a well-functioning justice system is that it gives our citizens confidence.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0050par0504	It's not reassuring right now.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0047par0505	It is only possible for the justice system to reassure citizens in time and without delay. The lack of judgment in a reasonable amount of time is one of the most important factors that affect the trust of individuals and institutions in the judiciary. This bill aims to ensure that trials are carried out in a reasonable amount of time, without delay and without causing injustice.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0051par0506	When it comes to your work, you change the law when independent judgment doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0047par0507	In this regard, the EC PARTY has been making major changes since 2002, and we are continuing to do so. In addition to some of the changes we've made, we've recently spent a lot of time here -- especially developing alternative conflict solution mechanisms -- and we've spent a lot of time meeting with a number of institutions like public auditors. Again, dear friends, the 6th article of the European Convention on Human Rights commands that the trials end within reasonable time. Again, the 141st article of our current Constitution commands that the cases be concluded with the least possible costs and the fastest possible outcomes. We know that the late justice is not justice. Yes, there have been delays in justice, judgment has been slow. The steps to the judiciary, the work done. Our goal is to ensure that the judgment is in time and in the right way. That's all we're trying to do. In view of the European Court of Human Rights for violating the principle of judicial action in a reasonable time, our country has been sentenced to several times to compensation. Along with the two previous packages that have been taken into effect, dear friends, the judiciary has also gained considerable speed. Look, especially with the amendments to the Supreme Court and the Court's Law, as both the Supreme Court and the State's Office increase the number of apartments and the number of members increased, today, the files are now coming out of high courts more rapidly because these were the areas that extended the judiciary most. Today, for the first time, the number of files that came out of the Supreme Court began to be much higher than the number of new files that came to the Supreme Court, and the accumulated files started to melt around here.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0052par0513	He's on automatic, automatic!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0047par0514	Hopefully, Mr. Minister, in his original speech, our goal now is to ensure that the trials are finalized within 12 months, within a year, and that Turkey is heading towards him, hopefully. In addition to these two packages, this is the third package, dear friends, and we are predicting some very serious changes. We predict very serious, very substantial changes in our criminal legislation, in our executive bankruptcy legislation, and also in our administrative judicial legislation. When you take a brief look at what the innovations in the criminal legislation are, dear friends, the very simple tasks that weigh the burden of the courthouses, while the estate should be taken care of by the administrations, some of the small jobs are not always, unfortunately, enough for prosecutors or prosecutors, some of them we have put in the monopoly of the courts, and we have piled up the files in a very fundamental way. But, for example, driving without a driver's license, which brings a lot of workload. It's standard, actually. We gave these prosecutors administrative fines, but there are so many files that prosecutors were sort of giving up their primary job and taking care of these administrative jobs. Look, when you look at the number of files that came to the Bureau of Misdemeanor in 2010, there are 263,041 files in this case alone.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0053par0516	How's my brother-in-law gonna do that?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0054par0517	Doesn't my sub have anything else to do?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0047par0518	So 263,041 files will be deleted in an instant. We're thinking of letting the governors and governors take care of this, and the prosecutors get back to their original duties. Again, some verbs don't become crimes in the same way, so some of the things that happen in the judiciary, some of the things that are discussed in the courts. This time we take them out of crime and turn them into guilt. Like those who broke in and were arrested in the dorms, we remove many things that require relatively light prison sentences, such as those who want to enter the home after being deported, such as those who want to go back into the country without a document, and such as tourist guidance, we say, "Let these be solved by the boss." Again, don't let the citizen appear before the judge for simple crimes. Look, we're expanding the scope of the prepayment; there's a down payment in prison now, which is up to three months, we extend it up to a year, we expand it. As the scope of the prepayment expands, the workload of the judiciary will be reduced. Fugitive use of electricity... and there's a substantial number of files on it. We're turning this into a misappropriation charge. Again, friends -- especially since it's mentioned here -- we're bringing important changes to the arrest, important regulations. We're expanding alternative measures instead of arrests. Look, it's a very solid sentence, we argue all the time. All these arrests, the length of the arrest, are discussed because we know that arrest should not be a punishment; arrest is a measure; it is the last resort. So let's improve the methods of forensic control...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0055par0523	You made the arrest a punishment, it wasn't like that before.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0047par0524	And this is what we do: before, you know, when the top limit is up to three years in the current arrangement, only forensic control can be applied; we remove the upper limit.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0055par0525	There are people in this country who have been in prison for three years who don't know what their crime is.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0047par0526	Look, we're lifting the top line, so at least call it OK. It's the right thing to do, it's the right thing to do, it's a good thing to do, it's a beautiful thing, it's something that we go from the top curtain. So for the arrest, we're completely removing the upper border for the judicial control session, and so the judicial control session... so let's have other punishments instead of arrests. What'll it be? Prohibited abroad, released on bail. So arrest is a last resort. So, of course, it's the judges' discretion, which will always be considered. It's gonna be hard to get a warrant. Look, dear friends, I'm a professional lawyer. We've always seen that when the courts decide to arrest him, when they decide to continue the arrest, unfortunately, they use cliché words in the same way as when they decide to release him. What is it? The quality and nature of the crime, the case of the present evidence, is going like the evidence collected, in order to say that he should be arrested when he's been evaluated, or even when he's being evacuated again, the quality and nature of the crime is to be told and to be released. Same reason for the arrest, same reason for the evacuation. We say, "No, that's not going to happen." We say, "There's going to be solid causes." We say, "There's going to be a strong crime." So to arrest you, you're going to have reason to arrest them, you're going to have concrete reasons to justify them. And so, in this sense, the arrest will be a little more difficult, and the arrest measure will come in a very limited, exceptional way. Again, in the same way, we're limiting the restraining order to two years, so no arrests in two years. Again, dear friends, of course, we bring in very strict regulations that will help fight corruption more effectively: We expand the scope of the violation of public officials. We're redesigning the bribery charge based on GRECO recommendations. The crime of the population trade is being reorganized. The elements of the crime of affecting the person who serves as a judge are being rearranged again. Again, violations of the secrecy of the investigation are reorganised, and freedom of press and expression in particular is widely expanded. Again, it has been mentioned here, of course, that while not being a member of the organisation, the situation of those who commit crimes on behalf of the organisation, according to the Turkish Penal Code 226 (a person who commits crimes on behalf of the organisation even though he is not a member of the organisation, or if he is a member of the organisation, he can also be punished for not being a member of the organisation, as well as for the current regulation. We're predicting that this will be taken down by half. In connection with those who help the organization intentionally and willingly -- including those who aid and abet -- even if they are not members of the organization -- those who aid and abetted -- are also being punished for membership in the organization, and we bring in provisions that will reduce to one third. Special authority courts, of course, have been very controversial, dear friends, special authorities in place of state security courts. In the DGMs, you know, there were military members, there were no military members. Again, the DGMs, as you know, have eliminated the AK PARTY power. Let's hope that the special jurisdictional courts, this group, again, will eliminate the power of the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0056par0531	Of course, when he starts touching you, you lift it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0047par0532	These are always discussed, dear friends. On the one hand, the balance of freedom and security -- this is a very sensitive scale -- must be placed in a very serious balance, and therefore, the special competent courts were, of course, the courts of need, and in the process, they were very serious functions. But Turkey has raised democracy with the EC PARTY. We've brought serious, substantial changes to our subject. We've taken serious steps towards democratisation, and we're in a much better position today. Therefore, as of today, the special authorities must now be removed. And while the special-level courts are being removed, the current cases should not be harmed, and we need to be sensitive about that.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0057par0533	It's against universal law, Mr. Ahmet, how can you say that?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0047par0534	In the same way, we will also discuss some of the crimes that have entered the jurisdiction of the special authorities' courts with a number of regulations. We'll leave that to the criminal courts. Again, in these courts, you know, there were serious restrictions on the right to defend, you know. I mean, from the start of the investigation to the start of the trial -- it'll take a year, two years -- once the citizen decides what he's being accused of, what information, what documents, what he can do, he can't get information from the case, what he's being charged with, he doesn't know. We are in violation of the right to defend ourselves. The right to defend is sacred. We said, and they'll only be able to limit the secrecy of the investigation to three months after this package is released. In the same way, when they ask for a period of time for defence, they don't give a court of law, they can now give a court of law when asked for time. Again, in simple terrorist crimes of up to two years, you know, there was no delay, no money transfer, no choice sanctions. The declaration of the sentence was not withdrawn because it was a crime of terrorism, but now, with this arrangement, there could be such regulations in crimes of up to two years, and there could be sanctions in those of up to two years. Again, dear friends, in today's terms of the Law of Bankruptcy, the debt-borrowing balance is being radically altered, and there are good changes. Because there's a lot of solid files, a lot of files. In electronics, there are very, very good regulations, such as sharing them through UYAP, doing them electronically so that their tenders can be more transparent, the lack of executive clerkship staff, increasing the number of staff. Expansion of incarceration of household property. Because a citizen's in trouble because of a debt, it's foreclosure. But he's got kids there, family, wife, wife. So what we're saying is that we don't want any of his basic household items to be confiscated. This is a human, conscientious situation, a beautiful arrangement. Again, dear friends, I think it's a very thorough arrangement for executive agencies, for example, to lose touch with money. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Likewise, there are very, very good regulations in administrative judicial legislation.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0058par0542	You're taking over the prosecution.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0047par0543	Sure, I'm out of time here, but... Dear friends, I assure you, this package is a very serious, very fundamental package for both our democratisation to gain speed from the judiciary. And for that, and for your contribution, I'd like to thank you very much. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0059par0547	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. In the name of the bands...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0060par0549	Mr. President, the Minister has made a mockery of my name.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0059par0550	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0060par0554	In fact, we've already learned to read back all you've done, already and already. For example, when judges formed an association and tried to address their problems, when they were organized, you treated the organized judges as traitors, terrorists, and elements that needed to be dealt with. At the moment, one of the people you call a traitor is on the stand, sir. When we said, "Listen to the problems of judges from the field." When we said, "You listened to our association, our phones, and our homes, yes, you listened to us. We allowed judges to organize in Europe. When you boasted about it, you tried to destroy us with laws, annulments and vetos. That's when we learned to read everything backwards. Actually, we've learned what you mean when you talk about democratization, openings, justice. When you said organization, you were talking about isolation and silence. When you said freedom, you were talking about imprisonment, and when you said freedom of expression, you were talking about police beatings, you were talking about a kingdom of fear, you were talking about tagging and blood tests in those days. In fact, we learned from living that day to read backwards what you were saying. And when you talked about dealing with the constitution of a coup, it was impossible not to be afraid because you were actually talking about strengthening the spirit of the coup under the name "calcule and covering its tracks." And that's why, Mr. Aydın, that's exactly why you will not answer to the coupgers, who are your predecessors; it's an illusion, it's true. You have the impotence to bring the real coupgers, their torturers, their murderers, even to trial. You can't bring it to court... and that's why all you're saying is that it's just words, nothing else.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0061par0558	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0062par0559	Here you are, Mr. Aydın. Please, before you dare to pick on me again...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0061par0563	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I'm not going to stand for any more bullying, but I've only read his own statement here, and I've made no comment, but if we can be traitors with this, I don't know where you're getting this from, I don't know, I don't get it. Betrayal is to oppose the arrangements made, the good arrangements made for the country, for the nation, for the country. Betrayal is not about praising the nation, but rather about standing up for the people who are exalted.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0063par0566	You're full of shit! That's bullshit!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0061par0567	Look, dear friends, treason... it's about the judges, us -- their essence, their physical location, their staff -- every single one of them.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0063par0568	Treason is to sell it under America's control, Mr. Aydın!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0061par0569	We've made some nice arrangements from the opening.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0063par0570	Co-chairing American projects is treason!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0061par0571	Well, who's to say that I stand by it and use it with pride and pride?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0063par0572	Do you always declare those who oppose you a traitor?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0061par0573	Who's this? So you're going to come from the inside of a judge, you're going to accuse your other friends of militantism, which is not acceptable. We're asking the coupgers for an account. Today, for the first time under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Commission for Impact Research is being established. It's the AK PARTY Power that shows that heart, shows that courage.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0064par0575	You're a coupger, you are.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0061par0576	We're asking for an account on May 27th, we're asking for an account on March 12th, we're asking for an account on September 12th.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0064par0577	It's also a question of their institutions.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0061par0578	From February 28th, even from April 27th, this is the ruling group.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0065par0579	What happened to Dolmabahçe?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0066par0580	Do you plan to ask the Great Monument for an account?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0061par0581	We're the ones asking the coupgers, but I can't place an understanding that even when we're asking the coupgers to account for it, I mean, somehow it's been abused, dear friends. Dear friends, look, please let's talk in conscience, let's put our hands on our conscience.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0067par0583	You're a civil blow yourself!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0068par0584	You're making your own coup!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0061par0585	Yesterday we destroyed many things, many arrangements, that we saw as taboo, unspoken, untouchable yesterday. With the AK PARTY, Turkey has become normalized, democratizing, getting stronger, but it will grow stronger, whether you want it to or not, because dear friends, this nation is happy with these policies. If this nation didn't support these policies, would it be 47%? If he didn't, would 47% be 50%? If he didn't, would he be 53, 54 percent in current polls? (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Here, take care of yourself. What do these people want? What are these people's expectations? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] How can we respond to this nation? You question it yourself, please question it. Return to people's course, return to the nation's direction. I don't want to go any further. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0069par0590	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0070par0591	Mr. President, there's another taunt.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0071par0592	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0069par0593	The preacher mentioned a treason he'd made his description of, and according to that, we're all traitors.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0072par0594	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0069par0596	Now, Hatib, I ask you, do I have to follow your idea of beauty? Do I have to follow your truth?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0073par0597	Who is the traitor of the state, Ahmet Bey? Does it suit you?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0069par0598	You're the president of the group, you need to learn what you shouldn't talk about first. It's a shame!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0074par0599	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0075par0600	Mr. Tarhan, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0074par0601	Mr. President, you've heard there's been another taunt, I don't need to explain, I was targeted directly, and my statement, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0075par0602	Now, do you want to continue this discussion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0076par0603	No way, Mr. President!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0075par0604	One moment, sir...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0077par0605	Mr. President didn't even understand my words, the traitor, Mr. Sir, I'd like to tell you. So there's been a misunderstanding. Please, let me fix it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0075par0606	Deploy your position, and let's end this conversation, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0077par0607	Not in my place, there's teasing. There's bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0075par0608	Please... so there's no end to this, Mr. Tarhan. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0078par0609	Mr. President says you're a traitor! Can't you hear it? Don't you hear it in there?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0075par0610	There was also a mention of the traitor, and there was also a mention of the traitor. Please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0078par0611	He's calling all of his MPs traitors!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0075par0612	Mr. Ozturk, take your seat. Sit down, Mr. Tarhan can express himself.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0079par0613	No way! Mr. President, this isn't happening!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0075par0614	Mr. Hodja, you too, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0080par0615	Bring in the transcripts, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0081par0616	Mr. Ahmet, you don't know what you're talking about. Please, be a man...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0075par0617	Here you go, two minutes. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Please, he can express himself.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0082par0620	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0075par0621	My dear Ahmet, I promise you, calm down. [[Noises from AK PARTY and CHP rows]] Calm down, sir, calm down. Listen.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0083par0625	Now, I don't think Mr. Aydın understands that you're listening because you're overexcited. He couldn't understand that he was listening, so I needed an explanation.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0084par0626	You didn't understand what was said.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0083par0627	All those who don't know, please shut up. At the time, the objectors were called traitors, and they were called terrorists, and right now, a judge you call terrorists and traitors is speaking to you on the stand. I mean, you understand completely differently, but that's one.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0085par0629	No, we didn't say you were a traitor. We didn't use that word, we didn't say that.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0083par0630	Second: I am proud and proud to the end that I have always done so, rather than have the impotence to judge the coupgers, who are his own predecessor, but have an understanding of unstructed coups and a sense of work, rather than a desire to judge them.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0086par0632	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0087par0633	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0086par0634	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0087par0635	Mr. Ahmet Aydın has made an assessment of Mr. Emine Gülter Tarhan's term as head of the YSAV presidency, and Mr. Tarhan has taken the same oath on the grounds of bullying, but in the same speech Mr. Aydın has made a statement to our group to mention the name of Mr. Kemal Kildaroğlu. That's why I want your word, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0086par0636	Mr. Kilicdaroğlu repeated his words. So he said something wrong. Are you saying?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0087par0637	No, sir, but he used a different interpretation of the words against his will.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0088par0638	Mr. President, I said the same thing, I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0086par0639	Come, please, before you dare to pick on me again...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0087par0641	Mr. President, I must say, I'm surprised at Mr. Aydın. A scale that can measure patriotism is not in the hands of Mr. Aydın. Nor is it in the hands of the AKP Group.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0089par0643	The CHP doesn't have one either.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0087par0644	You can't have a scale like this, Mr. Aydın, and you can't have a scale like this.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0089par0645	People are going to measure it, people.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0087par0646	Yeah, people will measure it. If you're basing patriotism on the majority of Parliament here, if you're equating every decision the majority of Parliament has made with patriotism, I'm concerned about what will happen to Turkey if this is your idea of democracy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, Mr. Aydın has moved Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroğlu to a very different place in which he made his statement regarding the temporary 15th Article of the Constitution. The 15th article, which protects the coupters, has been put into a package of constitutional amendments at the April 12, 2010 referendum, with the full recommendation of the Republican People's Party, which we wish to be known for once. But the removal of this clause, in fact, is not an arrangement that leads to the trial of those who actually carried out that coup, but the removal of this substance alone is important for the end of the understanding of the coup in Turkey. Just because the prosecutors took action after this was removed, the courts are being sued, the case is being filed doesn't mean our claim isn't true. We have stated that it is not legal to judge by removing this. It takes a separate arrangement to be able to judge. You didn't agree to that arrangement then. Mr. Aydın says that whoever we say will be tried is on trial.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0090par0652	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0087par0653	This is a full-blown interference with the judiciary.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0090par0654	How did you come to such a decision?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0087par0655	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0090par0657	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0091par0658	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. [[Continue]] My dear friends, I will now make a promise to our friends who have spoken on behalf of the individuals. Isparta MP Recep Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0092par0668	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath to make changes in certain Laws with the aim of activating Judicial Services 278 rows and to hold back the lawsuit and punishments committed by the Press Broadcast Road. I salute you all. Everyone knows that the workload of the judiciary has grown in a lot of ways. This intensity extends the judicial process, prevents the right to trial at the reasonable time adopted by our Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights, and prevents the state from fulfilling its obligation to judge at a reasonable time. Given the violation of the European Convention on Human Rights, a significant portion of the verbs that our country has to pay compensation for are related to violations of the principle of judgment at a reasonable time, the importance of the judicial obligation is even greater. This bill, which is part of the continuation of regulations in order to speed up judicial services, contains some changes to administrative judicial and criminal legislation in the area of the Law on Deputisation.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0093par0671	Don't read it. Tell me.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0092par0672	At the top of the most important reasons for increasing the burden of judgment...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0093par0673	You were beating around the bush; don't read it, tell it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0092par0674	...unfortunately, our habit of solving every problem is coming to justice.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0093par0675	Don't read it. Tell me.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0092par0676	In some conflicts, the administration avoids taking responsibility, and even the issues that need to be resolved by the administration must be judged by a judgment. This is largely a victim of our citizens. The administration, the bureaucracy, avoids taking responsibility, transfers the problem to the judiciary, and the judiciary, as if by putting itself in the position of governance, makes decisions, and problems grow mutually. The administration should create solutions by taking responsibility, not transfer them to the judiciary; the judiciary should not be in the position and understanding that, as opposed to the government, they should not impose custody on one another.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0093par0677	He reads, he doesn't know anything.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0092par0678	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are the three main topics in the area of executive bankruptcy law, the area of administrative judicial law, and the area of criminal and criminal justice law. We can list the changes made in the area of executive bankruptcy law as the main topic: In order to make sure that the personnel working in the executive offices specialize and thus improve the quality of service...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0093par0680	You're studying, you're not working.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0092par0681	...only the staff of the clerkship for the executive offices.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0093par0682	Why don't you practice instead of talking back to Ahmed, Mehmet?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0092par0683	The rulings made in the executive offices have been filed as grounds...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0093par0684	It's on the record, so you should know that.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0092par0685	...the decision is now made without justification for the demands in the application, which is usually carried out using a stamp.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0093par0686	Yeah, you don't work, you read like that! Instead of taunting Ahmed, Mehmet, work.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0092par0687	The arrangement prevents the use of the stamp in the standard expression, preventing the enjoyment that can be made in decisions, and thus providing effective control.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0093par0688	Why don't you work instead of talking to Ahmed, Mehmet?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0092par0689	Now, at the point where I read from my framing MPP friend the other night -- I'd like to turn you back a little bit -- you came up here on the stand, and a friend of ours said to you,
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0093par0690	See what he's saying, he's got nothing to say!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0092par0691	He said, "Talk to the beginning." You immediately perceived him as an instruction to yourself, and as soon as the General Assembly was here, you made him nervous at 3:30 a.m.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0093par0692	You're talking to me.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0092par0693	But like I said...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0093par0694	There's the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0092par0695	Look, you've been talking to me ever since I started talking to you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0093par0696	There's the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0092par0697	I'm returning the same speech you had that day.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0093par0698	Tell me the truth, the reports are there.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0092par0699	What kind of statements did you make at this General Assembly that day...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0093par0700	Tell me what you know, what you know.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0092par0701	You made the General Assembly so tense at 3:30, at 4:00.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0093par0702	Look, the president's here.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0092par0703	...you're doing the same thing to us here.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0093par0704	Look, there's a report, there's nothing to tell.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0094par0705	What are you gonna do, beat us up?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0093par0706	There's nothing to tell, it didn't work.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0095par0707	You're doing the same thing to me here. I just reminded you what you did to us.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0096par0708	Mr. Recep, I'm a witness, and you're wrong about this.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0093par0709	That's it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0095par0710	Your Honor, he needs your exclusive testimony, but you're testifying in the wrong place, Special. The arrangement prevents the use of the stamp in the standard expression and thus provides effective control. The effective use of the UYAP, the National Judiciary Network system, in any business or transaction in the executive bankruptcy agencies, has made it more obvious to the judiciary that...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0093par0713	It's over when I'm talking!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0097par0714	Thank you, your time is up.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0095par0715	Wasn't it ten minutes?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0097par0716	Your special time is done, thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0095par0717	Ten minutes, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0097par0718	Yeah, they gave me five minutes, so I'm fixing it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0095par0719	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0098par0720	However, you've earned the rights of the Special Chair, let him speak.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0099par0721	We need to talk in democracies, promise me, sir, give me five more minutes. You have to give it to them in democracies.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0095par0722	Thank you, my free brother.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0099par0723	You just gave me five minutes, and if he has anything to say, we're ready to listen.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0095par0724	One of the greatest innovations in the bill...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0100par0725	How are you gonna tell me in five minutes that you can't tell me in ten minutes?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0095par0726	One of the biggest innovations is the money relationship and the minimisation of transactions in the executive offices. All financial relations are made possible through the bank by using bank account numbers. The balance of interest between the debtor and the debtor, the protection of basic rights and freedoms, the foreclosure of things that are not economically beneficial or difficult foreclosure and sale. In order to maintain the profession of the debtor based on his financial activity rather than on his physical work, all the necessary items for family members living under the same roof have been decided that property and rights which are banned from students' scholarships and other laws cannot be seized. As of the foreclosure, a year in moving goods is reduced to six months and a year in asking for a sale on the movers from two years to one year. In order to increase accession to the auction during the sale of the seized goods, to ensure the real value of the goods, and to reduce sales costs, sales ads are also available electronically, and electronically available to participants are also allowed to participate in tenders, wear and buy them. In addition, the implementation of the Bankruption Act is reduced from 40 per cent to 20 per cent, as well as some other compensation rates. Under the provisions of the administrative judiciary, part of his cases as a first-degree court are being transferred to the first-degree court's administrative courts. Instead of all regulatory procedures of the ministries, it is organised to be held only in the State Office for cases to be carried out across the country, which are expected to be left to the administration or tax courts for cases which will be brought against the regulatory procedures of these ministries. For three years, the structure and working procedure of the State Department of State's Offices is being changed. Because, as of the end of 2011, there are nearly 6,000 cases on the agenda of the Court of Prosecutors' Offices, which meet once a week, and only the number of people attending the meeting is 150. Since it is difficult for its members to make decisions, a delegation of 20 people will be formed for three years, and they will not be able to perform their duties in their own apartments, and they will be tried to be able to dissolve these files within a period of two or three years. At the end of this temporary period, the accumulated files will be melted, and the number of jobs that come in will be considered unsustained because there will be cases in the administration courts. The process of stopping the administration is partially revised, and the decision to stop the execution can be made as a rule after the defence has passed or after the term of defence has passed. The motion to stop the executive will be denied without the defence of the defendant's defense. Applying such as destruction and deportation will result in the end-of-effect administrative procedures, and after the defence has been taken, it can be decided that temporary execution will be halted until a decision is made again. It is also organised that there is no demand to be stopped for a second time based on the same legal reasons, thus preventing repeated demands of rejection from being brought before judicial authorities. In the event of a person's freedom of communication, his images being recorded, that they may be disclosed in violation of the law, and that they may be released in the media-release organs. The acts of electrical theft have been redefined, and actions in these and similar cases have been redefined as a crime of non-reciprocity, and the effective verdicts of regret of these verbs have been redistributed, and the use of effective regret has been made possible only until the verdict has been passed. Payment will not be paid until the sentence has been made, compensation for the damage will not be punished, nor will the sentence be reduced until the sentence is finalized or later on payment or payment. Embezzlement and bribery crimes have also been restored to a new arrangement, a new understanding. As it is known, the arrest is a protection measure that interferes with the rights and freedoms of the highest party. The upper limit of admin control will be brought to a certain level -- as an alternative to arrest -- thus preventing the inconveniences of the arrest.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0101par0738	He didn't make it, he didn't make it!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0095par0739	He's the one who listened to me, and he's gone, and he's in the back, and he's sitting down, and I pay him my best regards, and I give him my best wishes. I wish this law to be a blessing and auspicious to the Turkish judiciary.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0102par0742	Why don't you tell us about the change in the Anti-Terror Law, Mr. Recep?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0103par0743	Thank you, Mr. Special. On behalf of his subjects, second speaker, Ali İhsan Kokturk, Zonguldak MP. Please come in.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0104par0747	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the generality of the Common Bill of Law 278 rows under discussion. First of all, I salute the High Council. Precious lawmakers are said to have been prepared to reduce the burden of work, to ensure that the judiciary will be activated, to prevent rights violations stemming from the lack of the right to be judged in a reasonable time, to ensure basic rights and freedoms of expression and privacy, to address problems, to ensure executive bankruptcy, administrative judicial and criminal legislation. As a result, the bill, which was reflected in the public with a strong description of the third reform package, has been given a lot of meaning for the solution to the problems of the judiciary because of its purposes. However, valuable lawmakers, both in preparation and in its context, have been found to be far from fulfilling the amount of meaning the bill has been burdened with. Bars who represent the defence profession are outcasts while drafting the bill. The work taken by the Ministry of Justice has been carefully avoided by public opinion and has been shaped by a unilateral understanding of the AKP's government. On the other hand, the bill, as well as its content, is very inadequate to address the current and important issues of the judiciary. At the very beginning of the legal arrangements that must be made to enable judicial services, due to the structure and understanding of certain goals, the special authorities who have created chaos in the judiciary, such as secret testimony, secret investigation, foreign elements to the legal system, should be removed from the system, while the regulations that constitute a severe human rights violation should be included in the bill, not in a clear and concrete way, but in a clear and concrete way. Again, the bill contains regulations that do not comply with universal law in the areas in which it is in hand, which clearly contradict our Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. For example, the regulation of executive personnel, such as tests, transfers, changes of title, and regulations, is clearly against Article 128 of our Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, due to its rights to authenticity. Dear lawmakers, the bill ignores the fact that the administrative judiciary was created to oversee the administration's operations and actions, to strengthen and protect the individual's law and to ensure that the state administration remains within the legal limits. Instead of guaranteeing civil law in the eyes of the administration, there is room for regulations that eliminate civil law. The simplest example of this is the arrangement that redesigns the halting of the execution. A third condition, such as the birth of power or impossible harms and the passing of the administration of the Constitution, has been added, in violation of the Constitution's defence or the taking of the administration's defences, in order to ensure that the provisions of the Constitution will be halted, which is clearly in violation of the Constitution. The changes to the State's structure, such as the removal of the prosecutors' views as a first-degree court, have been very serious in terms of a qualified trial and the unity of the court. It should also be known that the main reason for the labour burden of the administrative judiciary is that the administration does not act in accordance with the law. Therefore, the administration, the Justice and Development Party's ruling party, I did it, I did it. As long as it maintains its understanding, it is not really possible to reduce the burden of administrative justice. Dear MPs, today we want eight MPs including our Zonguldak MP Mehmet Haberal, our İzmir MP Mustafa Balbay. University students who say, "We want free education." Press members, MPs, soldiers, civilians, thousands of citizens are under arrest. Long-term imprisonments, unjust imprisonments have now become a dimension of serious worry. Today, our country is a country that has one third of terrorist criminals all over the world, as a result of an understanding that it views all non-political or non-violence as terrorists. In the matter of freedom of the press, our country has fallen behind even Uganda, which we once knew with İdi Amin. Despite all of this, our proposals and proposals, which we have made to eliminate such negativity, have been rejected by the Justice Commission, which has led our country away from the understanding of democratic state and law state. At this point, its content is not brought to the Commission's agenda, but is expressed by the ruling spokesman, who will be brought to the agenda of the General Assembly with a motion to reshape special officials' courts, whose contents are not shared with opposition parties. Dear lawmakers are a very concrete indicator of the understanding of the understanding of the idea of the judiciary, which is the most important part of the problems in our judicial system, such as the private authorities, without discussing a matter with the legal circles, without the opinion of the opposition parties, without being brought to the agenda of the Justice Commission, with a final-minute motion to the General Assembly, far from the realistic idea of a solution at the ruling party, to consolidate the judiciary according to power and to absoluteity. Mr. Aydın has just expressed himself. Although the principle of implementing the legal provisions to ongoing trials is a universal principle, the speech of the ruling party spokesman, who say changes to the special authorities cannot be applied to the current trials, is a complete scandal, and it is certainly not appropriate for a lawyer, because its immediate implementation of the rules of procedure is a basic lesson in law schools. However, I can't even describe the testimony of Mr. Aydın....that this will not apply to ongoing trials....I can't even describe it to a deputy president of the AKP....who is a first-year student of law school. In addition, valuable lawmakers, the law, as in the example of the MIT Act, are not merely the means to rescue the Prime Minister from special authorities courts and special prosecutors. The right to trial in fair and common courts is the absolute and equal right of every defendant born of universal law. Therefore, resolving the issues of the judiciary in Turkey, shape and display, public opinion, outside environments and the Prime Minister, not by regulations for satisfaction, but by judges who have adopted the separation of men, who have embraced the independence of the judiciary and the limits of the man, who believes in the legal state, believes in the state of law, believes in it, not in its rhetoric, but in the voice of democratic power, and who listens to the voice of his conscience. Otherwise, Mr. Group Deputy President Emine Gülter Tarhan. Unless understanding changes, the change of form will never eliminate the problems of the judiciary and the state of law. For these reasons, I salute the General Assembly with the desire to live in a freer, more equal, fairer Turkey, with the desire to take into account our proposals and criticisms.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0105par0762	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk. Congressmans, the negotiations are complete. Now we're going to question-answer. I'll make a promise to my friends who are in the system in order. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0106par0767	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you just stated that the terrorist leader is in the Imralı. According to media reports, is it true that they claim to have been staying in the guesthouse of the MIT? The Prime Minister had accused those who carried these allegations of dishonor for the talks in Oslo, but then I sent them to him. If it turns out that the terrorist leader is staying at the MIT guesthouse in Burma tomorrow, did you know about it? Otherwise, how are you going to answer that? Secondly, how does your government view the removal of a violation of the commitment? Is there an arrangement to address the victim? And thirdly, can you explain to me what criteria have been closed and returned to the court, which has been closed and returned to the court a week later? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What about the Kütahya Province of Domanic and the Parole Courts? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0107par0774	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0108par0776	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in your presentation just now, you made a statement at the very beginning, in the Imralı. Has he ever left the Imran, made some calls, been in some places? Can you answer me clearly, please? That's my first question. You also made an arrangement in 2007 that everyone criticised for a change in the Law on Police Affairs and Legislatures, which in a sense led to practices that would destroy legal security. Why didn't you think to make a change in making such a large arrangement in Article 4/A of the Law on Police Affairs and Legislatures?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0109par0779	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0110par0781	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the AKP came to power, 1) How many cases have been raised in the court of law? 2) How many cases have increased in administrative court? 3) How much has AKP's understanding of governance affected the increase in judicial and administrative cases? 4) Have the number of judges been increased in parallel with this? 5) Did the terrorist leader ever leave or leave the Imralı for any reason? We expect a clear answer to that question. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0111par0789	Thank you. Mr. Vural... no. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0112par0792	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I hope this Imranian killer -- we respect your word -- hasn't gone on a yacht trip with Barzani. But I gave you a question before, and I didn't get the answer. Since this man led the PKK, since he contributed to the KCK formation, has there been an indictment against this killer, as such information has also been uncovered in the events related to last year's MIT crisis? Where's he on the TK case? That's what I want to know. Another question I ask is that on Article 56 of this bill, the Constitutional Court can't be used as the only reason why courts should go to the Supreme Court through deficiencies. However, Article 152 of the Constitution is very clear, and there is a provision of the Constitutional Court that will stop the courts from going to the Constitutional Court on grounds of violation of the Constitution. How do we resolve this conflict? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0113par0797	Thank you. Mr. Agha... no. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0114par0800	Thank you, Mr. President. The additional indicator of the editors of the court is 2,200. However, the chief editors have an additional indicator of 3,000, even 3600. Do you plan to raise additional indicators of the editors of the court? You have closed 144 district courts demanding that HSYK be shut down, and then 44 have been reopened, but Manisa Gölmarara and Bridgehead have been closed. Have you done an adjustment, impact analysis on the closure of these courts, how will it help the government in terms of financial or job performance? Have you calculated the suffering of hundreds of thousands of citizens, the financial burden they will suffer, the waste of work, production, and time? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0115par0804	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Dora...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0116par0806	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, over a year after the June 2011 elections, we still have eight elected members of the public's will under arrest. Do you consider the fact that the elected MPs are not being evacuated to a state that claims to be a democratic law state? Do you think there's a solution to the end of the House these days? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0117par0809	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0118par0811	Mr. Secretary, recently special official Istanbul 13. During Ergenekon's trial by the High Criminal Court, it was reflected in the national press where lawyers were blocked from meeting with their clients, the defendants, and the judges who object to it. Now, the Law of Law is the basic principle of both our Law and universal law that lawyers can't be prevented from talking to their clients in any way during the investigation, prosecution and trial phases. Do you intend to open an investigation into concerned judges and prosecutors as the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, who removed prosecutors overnight on the grounds of abuse in the Lighthouse case because they made evacuation decisions? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do you plan to dismiss these judges, change their positions?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0119par0815	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0120par0817	Thank you, Mr. President. Court and executive bankruptcy agencies' money is deposited in the bank. What are the interest and bonuses of the money invested in the bank in 2002 under Article 36 of the Law of Harçes? Have they been transferred to the treasure? Question 2: What is the interest and bonus of the money invested in the bank in 2003? Have they been transferred to the treasure? From 2006 to today, what are the deposits and interest and bonuses from each year in the bank? Have they been transferred to the treasure? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0121par0823	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Özdemir... no. Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0122par0826	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, my question to the minister is that the terms of the demand to stop running are being aggravated in cases, and isn't that an obstacle to freedom of rights? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0123par0829	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. Mr. Tin Man...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0124par0831	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, at your request as Minister of Justice, the closure of the court in 44 districts has been cancelled. However, the districts of Hüyük and Altınekin are not among 44 districts. Why is the court closed, even though the Altınekin district is less than 70km away? Why is the Hüyük court closed, even though the population of our Hüyük district is more than 23, of these 44 districts? Will you have an application for a review of the HSYK decision? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0125par0836	Thank you. Mr. Sakek... no. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0126par0839	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as some of my friends have asked, is Abdullah Ocalan still in Imran? Was it removed from the Imran? If it was removed, for what reasons was it removed and his records kept? Is this the beginning of house arrest if it has been removed and has been held at the MIT guesthouse in Burma for a long time? Do you intend to put Abdullah Ocalan under house arrest? In addition, you are re-opening 44 of the 146 courts regarding the closed courts, and what are your criteria for opening and closing them? The two districts of Ulubey are closed. Do you think that because of these closed courts, the boroughs would be in question, and that the social lives of the districts would go further back, as well as their economic lives? Do you intend to correct the wrong in this matter? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0127par0844	Thank you. Mr. Wolf, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0128par0846	Mr. Secretary, all the friends are asking, and I'm asking: Closed courts, Seyitgazi in Eskişehir, Mihalgazi and Mahmudiya in Eskişehir, address a total of 40,000 populations. In the process of accelerating and activation of full judicial services, isn't that a conflicting decision? Do you think the fixed closures are for Eskişehir? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0127par0848	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0129par0850	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm going to try to answer in the order of our lawmakers to ask questions, but there are a few questions that I think I'll be answering a lot of my friends at the same time, since all of our MPs are almost referring to them as partners. At the beginning of the session, one of them came up with a very different question in the form of Mr. Oktay Vural, where the division head was found in the Imralı Prison, where the National Intelligence Agency had sometimes gone to and from, or had previously left and returned to Imralı. I was trying to explain the general reasons for the bill from the bench. Again, from here, I answer these questions: I came to the Ministry in May 2009, and so far, we don't have any information from that day forward, which is that the Imran is out of existence.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0130par0853	You're not sure of your information! I don't know. You're saying I don't know.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0129par0854	Two: we have a warden there at the execution agency, we have execution guards. An Imralı island is declared a military security zone, declared a private security area under the control of the gendarmes. So, based on the data I had, I said, "Imralı is in prison right now." I asked myself, "Have my statement come out before?" According to our data, we don't know anything about him leaving prison, Imralı, and we don't know anything about him going anywhere else.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0130par0856	He didn't come out, he didn't. You don't say, you don't know... I don't have it, you don't have it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0129par0857	It is clear that you have executed your sentence as a prison in Imralı Prison, and this sentence is being carried out without interruption. That's all the information we have, the records. That's where I'm pointing out that other information isn't being respected. Other than that, one of the questions was the question of Mr. Yilmaz. That is not the way we think, nor is it the way we work, and I make that very clear. Other than that, Mr. Light's second question was, do we have any interest in removing the binding punishment for violation of the pledge? And that's a question that we've already addressed to our side by different lawmakers, and we're trying to express it from here on different occasions. I have to rephrase from here. There is no study in our Ministry at this time, Mr. Light. Third, the question that many friends of ours have expressed and asked Mr. Illum is about the courts that have been closed. What were your criteria? Later, the decision on the closure of forty-four of the closed courts was rescinded by the Council with the Ministry's objection. What were the criteria for these, and why did you do this? A assessment such as... Dear friends, first of all, I have to say that savings for the closure or merger of the courthouses aren't the cutest savings. These, of course, are not unpleasant and pleasant. There was a similar savings in 2004 around 130 courthouses. So, with the arrangement in the past 15 days, 149 were first proposed as a court of law, the board decided to combine 146 of it. I'll share the process with you later. At first, the study of the courts that were closed in the first place was based on the following: The average number of courts and prosecutors has been determined for the last three years. In those courts, prosecutors and courts, the number of cases and investigation files has been identified and their three-year averages have been taken. Human resources, distance from the nearest courthouse, the central population, total population, the physical state of the courthouse, whether or not the prison is found, have been evaluated by combining the data.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0131par0862	Has that changed in a week, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0132par0863	Does it change in a week?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0129par0864	No assessment has been made based on one or two data alone. So, from time to time, sir, according to this criteria, ours should enter, but it wasn't included here. Complaints can come in, so I'll put it to you, decisions have been made by multiple data assessments. Business situation, transportation, geographical structure, population, service building and housing situation...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0133par0865	Mr. Secretary, none of these places fit the application, none of them fit; don't say any of them.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0129par0866	...the level of improvement is considered.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0133par0867	We've made a political decision. Say, "We've made friends heroes in the finished places."
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0129par0868	You asked a question, wait for the answer. Dear friends...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0133par0870	It'll get you into trouble, none of that's true.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0129par0871	Now, I don't know if you asked a question about not getting an answer, but if you're asking a question to get an answer...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0133par0872	But, Mr. Secretary, what you're saying is not true.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0134par0873	Don't tell stories.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0129par0874	If you'll excuse me, wait for what I have to say.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0133par0875	If all this is true a week ago, then why did you change it?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0135par0876	What changed in a week?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0136par0877	Minister, you're not answering.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0137par0878	For the first time, 146 courthouses have been merged according to these criteria...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0138par0879	It changes in a week?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0137par0880	Courts, with an average of less than 500, are located within 15km of the most suitable legal agency, with a maximum distance of between 15 and 40km to the appropriate legal agency, but the average of work is less than 1,200. The central population is 10,000, and the total population is not more than 30,000.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0139par0881	Changed in a week?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0137par0882	Depending on these criteria, the decision was made to merge 146 locations, and it was then heard by a commission created by both NGOs and MPs, both from local executives and from our Ministry of Applications. As a result of the notes, the districts, which were justified in the grounds expressed in protest, were taken back to Kurula as an objection to the Ministry. Part of these objections have been evaluated by the Council, where the merger decisions have been lifted. Well, on what grounds has the board decided to unify it, and I'm coming to that. Dear friends, in the first assessment, although the distance between the counties was within the criteria, we had a county that was linked to the blood feud between the two of them, and the town that had been killed near 30. This has to be...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0140par0884	So everyone kills each other, Mr. Secretary? What does that mean? For God's sake, don't do this! At least don't explain!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0137par0885	Dear friends...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0140par0886	So in Kütahyaya, people should kill each other too? Is that how you want us to increase the number of files? What does that mean? Is that an answer?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0137par0887	Now, there's no dialogue like that, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0140par0888	No, but it's not! There's no such explanation.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0137par0889	That's the second time I've told you the criteria the Board has taken. Although the distance is more than 10 miles [15 km] above, the decision to merge there is lifted if the workload is more than a thousand. Over 15 miles [25 km] and unification has been removed in places with more than 700 things to do. There's a certain level of work that's over 35 kilometers long, with more than 600 things to do, and as the distance goes on, the number of jobs goes down. Such criteria have been assessed, and due to security, there are a number of savings under the influence of terrorism, pressure, conditions in the region and security sensitivity.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0141par0891	What will the islands be like, the islands?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0137par0892	Dear friends, these closed courts are intended for more efficient conditions of judicial services. No government will ever put itself in the hands of such a saving that will put him in political distress. From time to time, our friends were criticized for political reasons. Look, the municipalities of the currently closed, merged courts are at which parties, let me share this with you. I'm giving you the figures on 146 neighborhoods: 70 of 146 places from the AK PARTI, 30 of CHP, 21 of whom are MHP, one of whom is chosen from the DTP, I think it's going on now from BDP. There's the Ponzi Party, there's the Democratic Party, there's the ANAPP, there's the DSP, there's the independent, there's the EMEP. It's merged... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One last sentence... and then, this...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0142par0897	Enough, enough...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0143par0898	What about the islands, the islands?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0142par0899	Give him time and he has nothing to say.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0144par0900	Yes, dear friends, the most closed places are the AK PARTY municipalities. So, what about the place where the merger was lifted? When you look at the ratio here, the municipalities of the MHP took advantage of it at the most. As 17 EC PARTY municipalities reopened, 8 Republican People's Party, 9 MHP, 1 DTP, 1 Saadet Party, Democratic Party, DSP, independent and EMEP. From here on out, dear friends...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0145par0901	Mr. Secretary, is 9, larger than 17? Don't call it that! Say it as a ratio, as a ratio.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0142par0902	Big!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0144par0903	Your rates, Mr. Light, please. You know exactly what I mean. There's no political wisdom here, there's a study to make services more efficient. This is not the first time this study has been done in Turkey. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0146par0905	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. Now, I would like to submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0147par0908	Chapter one...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0148par0909	You should have told me to move on.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0146par0910	Sir, I said to move to the departments.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0148par0911	You called them things.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0146par0912	Now, coming up on chapter one, excuse me. Yes, it's called switching to materials, then into sections. I'm on my way to chapter one. Congressmans, we will now begin the negotiations of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 28th article. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Dilek Alagun Yilmaz, Uber MP. Akagun Yilmaz; excuse me. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0149par0919	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the High Council. Mr. President, I think you should know my last name by now.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0146par0921	It's handwritten. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0149par0922	Yes, I am. While the MPs were asking the Minister, I asked him where the head of the PKK's terrorist organization, Ocalan. I've also made a question proposal, and I've made it very clear in this question proposal why I doubt it. I gave you this last week. So after Mr. State Gardener asked that question, something woke up, and I said: "In January 2012 Mehmet Ocalan is going to Imralı to meet his brother, but his brother says, Abdullah Ocalan says, "It is not appropriate for us to meet now. In the same way, in 2009, Abdullah Ocalan's cell was moved to Turkey for 17 centimeters, as you all know, but he hasn't been interviewed in a year; he has no lawyer's opinion, no contact with his relatives. Now, if there's no catch here... there are a lot of illegal organisations or different people in Turkey who would protest, but I'm telling you this so that you know where my reservations are coming from. Now, what the Minister said is that we don't have any information. It's not an answer, Minister. You're the Minister of Justice and you're directly interested in prisons. It's in the paper, in today's Light newspaper, it says that when he goes to the hospital, he doesn't keep an entry and exit report. Now, when he goes to the MIT guesthouse in Bursa, isn't there a report, Mr. Secretary? You're the Minister of Justice, we don't have that kind of information. You can't run from it, Mr. Secretary. You have a very serious responsibility for this.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0150par0928	You're talking nonsense, it's empty!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0149par0929	So the fact that a heavily aggravated life sentence is not in prison, but in different places can never be forgiven, can never be tolerated. Mr. Secretary, if you have such a mistake, if you have such a intention or flaw, it is a crime to be tried in the Supreme Court. You can't let that happen.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0151par0930	So, how do you believe in news of such asparagas? Asparagas is news and you believe it!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0149par0931	So in order to eliminate these doubts, you must, Mr. Secretary, take the necessary care to remove these doubts. Your explanation isn't enough and it hasn't satisfied us, Minister. Other than that, dear friends, 44 courts were opened after 146 courthouses were closed on June 15th by the Supreme Council of Judges. The Minister is trying to explain these things, he says: the population, the distance from the city, the nature of the files... Now, friends, I count to you a number of the 44 courts opened on June 22nd: Antalya Gündoğmüs Courthouse, has 1,988 inhabitants; Ardahan Posof Courthouse, the district has 1,987 inhabitants; again, Tunceli Mazgirt, 1,619 inhabitants; Tunceli Nazimiye, 1,661 populations. Dear friends, I'm asking: Would there be around 1,200 files in a county of 1,600 people? Who are you telling this to? How can you say such a thing? None of this confirms what you're saying, Mr. Secretary. So the Prime Minister said at your meeting the other day, fix it. I'm not saying that ambivalent attitude. Are you going to fix this, Mr. Secretary? You need to fix this, because with the closure of the courts, these counties will turn into villages, their social life will end, their economic lives will end. Please, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you to come back from this as a representative of the courthouses in Butler, as well as as as as a lawyer, as a lawyer. Because even if there's no expense being made here, the costs of the citizen will be severalfold, Mr. Secretary, I want you to pay attention to that. Other than that, dear friends, if we're talking about such a thing as a judicial package, there's no way we can get past talking about our arrested MPs. In every case, the families of our arrested MPs, the children of our arrested lawmakers, are waiting for hope. The judge's package. It has been said that there will be a limitation on the arrest. It has been said that there will be a limitation on the special authorities. It has been said that the conditions for the release of the arrested MPs have been created. But unfortunately, we see there's no such arrangement here. You also ignored the Republican People's Party's proposals. But these people have children, and these people need to represent us here now, representing the nation. And we think this issue should be brought back into this package with a motion. Other than that, my dear friends, the death penalty has been lifted and the death penalty has not been carried out in our country, but you know there are about 150 people dying in prisons, and there are prisoners who are seriously ill. But you can't even bring the generals of September 12th to trial, the Kenan Universe and Tahsin Şahinkaya, and you say that they must be taken from the hospital. About 150 people are still dying in prison. You're not letting him go out for treatment, and the presidency isn't using amnesty. That pardon warrant is standing right there, my dear friends. Besides, Ergenekon, you know that Kuddusi Okrır died, my dear friends, from people who were tried in the Sledgehammer case and tried for false reasons and fabricated evidence. You must have seen him when he came to the trial. This man was a commander, who was the president of the Ataturkist Thought Society, but when he entered the prison, he suffered a cerebral hemorrhage as a result of the conditions and fall he lived in. He's like a child now. You also killed Sener Eruygur, my friends. There are so many people over 70 today, you're putting them to death. Although the death penalty has been lifted in this country, the AKP ruling has become an act of capital punishment, my friends. Hilmioğlu the Conqueror probably knows how heavy his condition is, but even for that reason, they're not being evacuated. It continues to hurt the conscience of the entire community. My dear friends, I have been promised to talk about the first chapter of the Executive Bankruption Act, but Turkey's agenda is so intense that we would not be able to proceed without mentioning these issues. Now, what I see is that when the executive bankruptcy bill started to be discussed in the Commission, and I received a public hearing that this was coming to the Commission, I got a call from so many debtors. There's a terrible lobby for debtors in this country, folks. The debtors are very powerful and they're doing serious lobbying, but the creditors -- the creditors are guilty, the creditors -- can't be held accountable in this country. I mean, where do I get this from? They're friends from years of arrangements. Finally, the fine was lifted, the creditors were victimized. The provision for the foreclosure of one / four of their pensions has been lifted, and the creditors have been victimised. The phone foreclosure and phone closure were removed at the request of the companies and the creditors were victimised. The prison penalty for not making a statement of goods has been lifted, the creditors have been victimised. Now it's been said recently that there should also be an arrangement regarding the violation of the commitment. Now I'm asking you here -- maybe the law knows more, but -- think you're in debt, dear friends: what are you going to collect it with? How are you going to collect this money? If the creditors can't collect what they're owed, then in this country, the mob and gangs will take over. The law of this country will be broken. Trust in the law will go away. This has got to be a good balance, guys. Of course, the debtors' rights will be protected, and the debtors will have to be dealt with in order not to harm them, but to keep the balance very well. I think there's a balance disorder here against the creditors. I wanted to get your attention on that, too. Now, with the amendments to the Executive Bankruption Act, the system and the integrity of the law are breaking down, my friends. For him, I must remove this text from the draft text. I have prepared motions because it is the truth. When you look at it in detail, friends, what do you do now in Article 1, when executive managers and other officers and other officers, our fellow workers in the execution, have to take all kinds of tests, upgrades, transplants, law enforcement? It's arranged by direction. You say. This provision violates Article 120/2 of the Constitution. That's exactly why this needs to be removed from the text. Please take our words seriously, and please let our fellow lawyers put their hands on their conscience and consider our motions. Friends, there is an arrangement in Article 3 of the article: "The signature signed by electronic signature is a deed. " [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0152par0949	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Now on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Sırrı Süzeyya Önder, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0153par0953	Mr. President, my dear friends, I'd like to begin with a request from Mr. Justice Minister: close all courts, if possible. I don't understand this either; every person who comes out is screaming, "Why did you shut down our court like you wanted a school, a factory, a road?" You know, I wouldn't be worried if there was justice around here. I don't understand why this court-opening hysteria when justice is no longer what it is. I'm asking you to shut down all the courts in my constituency, Mr. Secretary, put them on your schedule. I'm not going to come up here one day, so God bless you, I'm committed to this place.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0154par0954	I object to your request.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0153par0955	You've always done your job with the courts. This regime was not established in the battlefields, this regime was established in courtrooms, the republic itself and the courtrooms. That's what's going on, guys. Don't rely too much on such courts. And the MPs speaking on behalf of the opposition party are having a discussion on whether they are in the Obdullah Ocalan Imralı, or not? A self-responsive approach, where I'm going to say a few words about democracy, democratism, and being consistent, and then I'm going to get into it. In this country, there's no looking at the prisoner's identity when there's been a severe right violation of our history as the Koster case. When there is a Hursit Tolon or Abdullah Ocalan or anyone else, you must not change your mind. You're going to say: "Why is a prisoner not interviewed by his lawyer?" "He who does not ask that question on that day has no right to develop an approach today through speculation." I think there's a need to be more careful, more careful about the issue of democracy and consistency. It's customary to make a connection with bankruptcy. Yes, justice is bankrupt, and its executor is at the door. I'd like to make a transition by saying, "Ooh, I'd like to say something about these senseless and grave arrests." There's always talk of politicalisation of the judiciary in this country. I said something about politics being judicial when the 2nd package was discussed with this issue. There are two possibilities in the trial, my friends, whether you're acquitted or convicted, so your thesis is either justified or proven unfair. This is necessary for justice in one way or another, but politics is three possibilities. The third possibility of politics and another non-judgmental feature of politics is that the third possibility is a compromise; what is not in the judiciary is that it deals with its historicality. What would happen if you left a three-probability issue such as politics to the monopoly of the judiciary? That's why we need to look at history. What's in our history? What is today called special courts, regardless of what its name is, is no different from its framework, its approach, and its style, as well as its work. Black Ali or blind Ali, it doesn't matter. That's what's wrong with practice that day, and that's what's wrong with it today. He also has another partnership, which I would like to make a few reminders of for those who are often opposed, who are heavily opposed by Kurds and objectors, who demand rights, who have been victims, but who want history. This bald Ali, blind Ali, those three Ali, whatever they were -- God's mercy on them -- they were so desperate that I would build a court for you that brought them here. It's a polite thing to say for the revision of special authorities today, so don't get upset, we'll set up a trial for you. Why? Because he's turned to power, it's a battle, it's a struggle, it's going on. But it's a sociological thing, when there's no place to export the boredom, the scam, the Kurdish Mehmet watch, the Kurdish account, the leftists, the students, the women, the people who demand it, the burden begins to be exported. You don't have to be left-right here. When we have a little bit of a sense of justice, it becomes very clear where we're going to look at it. Why? Once injustice has been the way, when an institution called justice has begun to make injustice a sort of manuscript, it is unclear who will knock on its door. Yeah, that's all it takes to look at history. It's always been like this, and now it's happening like this. So what? Let me tell you about the trial of Sheikh Sait, and let this matter of the mother tongue be done. Zechariah Sertel tells his story in his memory; then a communist journalist tells them that on his way to court, Zechariah Sertelgil said: "The trials here are very fast, and the punishment is usually execution." • When Sheikh Sait is on trial, the court is history, and a line called "the execution of the accused, the continuation of the trial" has been marked with very bad colors on the judicial history of this country: ▪ The execution of the accused, and that is what has been done today. There it says: "The Kurds rejoice only because they know the execution, so there is no help." They've all been sentenced to death. We've passed the Supreme Court. Now, as the Commission for Research on the Impacts, we have visited Mr. Solomon Arif Emret. To take advantage of his knowledge of the past. Mr. Idris Sahin -- the non-Naim -- Mr. Feyzullah -- and I, in Bolu. May Allah grant us a long life, we visited Süleyman Bey. He said something like this, there's a lot of examples -- and we're at the end of talking -- that the court gave very disproportionate punishments in the assassination of Ahmed Emin Yalman. Who? Necip Fazil, Serden Pass, and many others who opposed the Democratic Party of that time. Do you know who led that Supreme Court office to Menderes when it was discovered that the Supreme Court of Appeals would break the sentence? Salim Başol. The same Salim Bashol decided to execute Menderes. And that's what's been done today -- people from the courts were collected, special committees were set up to suppress the Kurdish opposition, and now they say, "Come, let's see, we'll judge you too." That's what the whole case is all about. When it comes to the arrested MPs, Mr. Prime Minister returns and tells us: "Van Mayor's second fault line, the political line." Why? On the first day he made this decision, he said: "There is no help here. " Why? These are sending the money to the mountain. The sentence has been made beforehand, and it has been a long time since he tried to gather his evidence. Now, they're taking these. When it comes to arrested MPs, when it comes to Kurdish arrests that have reached 10,000, the Prime Minister tells us: "Trust in justice." But we ask you from here: Why should we trust the judgment you don't trust, Mr. Prime Minister? Tell me if you know anything, and we'll get a good night's sleep. When it comes to your staff... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in one night, you pass a law from this House. After that, you call us trust. I'll tell you one thing, Mr. President, you gave it to everyone, and you gave it to me for a minute...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0155par0966	I didn't give it to anyone. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0153par0968	Then let me show you a little bit of actuality. Look, guys, today's Morning paper. According to the state records, the number is CK....................................... It says here there are 8,000 prisoners. This isn't the Morning paper, it's not a left-wing newspaper, it's the government's semi-official broadcaster. Now, Mr. Huseyin Steel came out of nowhere and said: "These are lying, 1,100 people. There is no one in this cabinet who hasn't said the same thing. Here, look, it's shown here by numbers.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0156par0971	Mr. Commander, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0153par0972	I'm finishing, Mr. President, thank you. We want these courts eliminated. We demand that the shortcomings of this law be completed more and more fully, remove this plague from this nation's agenda. My respects to all of you, my love.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0157par0976	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, İstanbul MP Celal Adan. Here you go, Mr. Adan.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0158par0980	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with all due respect. Justice is a fact that should be in a man's entire life. Without justice, the country, the honor, the son, the mother, the father, the lover lose meaning, even the whole meaning of life. It's easy for honest people to get justice, but it's hard for the dishonest. My personal opinion is that any person who wants to carry the dignity of humanity must stand on the scales of justice, face facts. Only the brave can face the truth. Anyway, home, folks, honor becomes as much meaning as you can face the facts. Justice is not only the foundation of property, but also the cornerstone of life. Every unfair human being is judged by time, so it's important, in the life of our nation, in the life of all mankind. Our constitutional system has been introduced according to the principle of separation of forces, and state bodies have been given powers and responsibilities under that principle. The fact that men of law, conduct and judgment are in a position that is balanced amongst themselves, does not exceed its limits, does not meet with one hand, does not surround each other is indispensable to democratic methods. Compulsion of this principle, overcoming its jurisdiction and its mandates will lead to political crises in the state. An independent and impartial judiciary is also essential for the mention of a fully legal state. It is a fact that our nation shares the same ideas about the state of law as the universal values of the world. Throughout our history, we have found social peace and peace in the concept of justice. Our public conscience is satisfied with the concept of justice, hurt by injustice. All the republic's governments, who have worked so far to achieve the state of law, to ensure the full independence and neutrality of the judiciary, have done good work, made initiatives. In 2009, the Justice Department tried to track the road maps mentioned in the Judicial Reform Strategy. This document, stated in 10 main topics, prioritizes the strengthening of judicial independence, improving the neutrality of the judiciary, increasing the efficiency and efficiency of the judiciary, boosting trust in the judiciary, facilitating access to justice, improving the criminal execution system. Despite the recent constitutional amendment, which has claimed to solve the problems of the judiciary, there has been a radical reform change in the judiciary, which is in line with international contracts that meet the European Union acquish and does not contradict our historical and religious roots. We have to make this radical change in both minds and law enforcement. Today, unfortunately, we face many heavy paintings, which are far from meeting the acquisitor of the European Union, ahead of the European Convention on Human Rights infractions, which are busy at work, the prisons are packed, the cases are not finished in a reasonable time, the right to a fair trial, the arrest and the length of long imprisonment have been very intense disputes. The independence of the judiciary, the politicalisation of the judiciary, makes this painting even heavier. The current bill contains partial amendments to the Law on Bankruption, administrative law, the Penal Code, the Law on Penalty, the Anti-Terror Law and some other laws. The ministries, institutions and organisations are demanding a change of law in accordance with their urgent needs, as well as regulations for the European Court of Human Rights decisions. However, the bill was presented to the public as the 3rd Reform of the Judicial Reform, and great expectations were created. On the contrary, the bill is far from reaching the main goals we are trying to sum up above, nor the goals of the Charter Reform Strategy. There is no integrity, no strategy and no architecture in the bill. What's right is that the Turkish Grand National Assembly will be brought before them, each one of them a separate discipline, with separate regulations in the branches of the law. This bill, prepared in the logic of the bag law, is contrary to the technique of lawmaking and to the established practices of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The necessary contribution of Tali commissions, Plan Budget and especially the Constitutional Commission has not been reflected in the bill. The bill was not discussed enough in the professional community, particularly the Bar Association. It is seen that the government has often used digital power in a way that is incompatible with the policy economy to make law by taking advantage of the opportunities provided by the Parliamentary Council. This is far from a cognitive understanding of the process of making laws, not enough contributions from the communities, but the performance of the law in practice, monitoring and evaluation are not met. As a result, law production processes are not functioning well, they are often applied for amendments to the law. For example, like the change in the Turkish Trade Law last week, the change in the Czech Law, the changes in the fraud case. As for the parts of the bill, the amendments or changes made in this area should not upset the balance of rights and interests among the parties. The bill, which recently lifted the prison sentence in the face of illegal checks in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, is being debated by the public today. Market data shows that the use of checks in commercial relations has decreased and the amount of unpaid checks has increased. In addition, it is positive that any transaction in the executive and bankruptcy agencies should be performed within the IYAP system. The regulation of executive staff's rights is not in accordance with the law. The administrative judiciary for changes in administrative law is the authorities where citizens who oversee the legality of the administration's actions and decisions will carry out the freedom of rights against the state. Changes in the way that the Ferts will see legal protection against the state must not weaken that guarantee. Instead of suing the proceedings of all regulatory and regulatory boards through the proceedings of the ministries, it makes it difficult for some cases to be opened in district administration courts, to be restricted to administrative court hearings, to express opinion on the basis of the trial, and only the basis of the trial of the prosecution, to prevent the administration and the conduct of the citizens, to make it difficult for the decision to stop. The formation of the Board of Administrative Courts of Appeals is being reorganised in the interim Article 24 (which corresponds to Article 47). The structure of this Council has only been changed a year ago, is now being re-changed, and is completely conflicted with the regulation of the government bill and the subcommittee report. Under this arrangement, a power belonging to the Council of State will be transferred to the Presidential Board. It is against the rule of law state and legal security and judicial independence that judges will be appointed to serve in the Executive Court of Appeals, an appeals authority. It should definitely be removed from the draft text. In Article 104, the decrees have been dismissed. Article 13 of the Anti-Terror Law, which is considered among these provisions, prohibits the dismissal, postponement of the sentence under the Anti-Terror Law, and the conversion of the decision to alternative sanctions. It is not right to remove this clause in an environment where the fight against terrorism is intense and the attacks on our national unity and unity continue relentlessly. The ruling judiciary must be protected by 20 per cent quotas available for candidates except for those who have graduated from law school. In our country, as in other countries, the criminal justice mechanism is an intensive two-way interrogation. The victims of the crime complain that justice is not served, that criminals are not punished, and the accused complain that they are not judged fairly, that their rights and freedoms have been unfairly restricted, that they are not judged in reasonable terms. These demands need to be examined and interpreted. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is injustice that Turkey today is basically challenging the peace of state and nation. Thus, a political party with nearly 50 per cent of the vote is obliged to provide justice, the most important argument for peace between the state and the nation in the process. Istanbul has only 4,000 zoning changes. The injustice there also brings the conflict between citizens and the state to a terrible point. I wish that this bill would lead to the peace of the state and the nation, an opportunity for true justice, and I offer all of you with respect.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0159par0995	Mr. Adan, thank you. No further requests on behalf of the groups. On behalf of his people, Mr. Bulent Turan, the Istanbul MP. Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0160par1000	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the first part of the bill, which aims to make more effective use of judicial services known to the public as the 3rd Criminal Package. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTY has made serious changes in what we're talking about from November 2002 to today, with the support of our nation. In this period of time, with the awareness that justice is a matter of conscience, a matter of respectability, and the foundation of property, he carried out a number of legal arrangements in a row under the name "reform packages." As we have discussed today, the third package of judgments, which all of you have closely followed, which is closely followed by the public, has also arranged a serious step towards the correction of this troubled area that I'm talking about. My dear friends, in the first place, we have raised the Justice Department budget, which was around 1 billion in 2002, to over 5 billion today with the EC PARTY Power. In many places in 2002, we can see that there are all sorts of different places in the basement where courts, with judges in a court system, are being implemented today, called "a hundred and fifty. " During the EC PARTY, we watched together that there was a 20 per cent increase in the number of judges and prosecutors in order to speed up justice services, while staff needs increased by 50 per cent. We will also see that the National Judicial Network Project, which we refer to as the IYAP, which is an example in the international community, has been greatly accelerated, but will do even better. My dear friends, I would like to say that I would like to refer to you as physical examples that will increase their sample. However, despite the determination of the EC PARTY, despite all efforts to prevent it, the legal provisions that have been issued by morning are the best example of our sensitivity to the issue. For example, new ambitious systems have been established in many areas, from public supervision to the judicial control system, from the possibility of access to the records of the criminal records that have established too many victims in front of the courts until now. This law, which we are meeting today at the General Assembly, is an important study of the further activation of the services of justice. When we look at the third judicial package without prejudice, without bias, we will see that there are four main elements: one of them is about executive bankruptcy legislation, the other is about criminal legislation, administrative judicial legislation, and the study of freedom of the press. In this part of my speech, I made a general commitment to the first chapter, which covers the Law on Institution and Bankruption. With these changes, we've all been targeted by a more modern executive agency, a faster and more efficient system, a new executive agency that would never come up unless it was mandatory to deal with money. For example, new regulations are being made, such as the integration of all information and documents used in executive activities into the IYAP system, the electronics of executions, the impugning of household items, which are difficult to sell, and the impounding of property in the use of individuals and families, as well as the fact that electronics are now available in executive sales, the minimum wage of purchases is being completed by a letter of notice before they can be followed without a warrant. In 1999, a study led by Adrian Zuckerman, a law professor at Oxford, led by 13 important countries such as America, Britain, France, Switzerland. According to this study, three basic problems were mentioned in the book The Civil Judicial Crisis: one is that access to justice is difficult; the other is that the judicial costs are high; and the third is resistance to justice, the reform movement. So far, we, the AK PARTI government, have taken very important steps to overcome the difficult access to justice and the high cost of trial, but so far, we've faced very serious resistance to all kinds of justice reforms. With empty proposals, effort to tire us out, effort to keep the House busy until morning, we faced significant challenges.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0161par1009	That's how you look at the opposition, that's how you look at it!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0160par1010	But we have a claim that the entire conscience of 75 million people...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0161par1011	It would be better if there were no opposition. Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0160par1012	That style has been going on for over a year, but we know that doing the same things and expecting different results is not the attitude of a reasonable person.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0161par1013	Shame on you if you look at the opposition like that!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0160par1014	You do the same things, you expect different results, they haven't changed in ten years, they won't change.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0161par1015	That's your idea of democracy! Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0160par1016	Together, we want to make the issue of justice with his opposition better solved in our country, better results taken, and that justice is no longer a matter of conscience, pain.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0161par1017	You're the one who's corrupting justice!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0160par1018	The more you shout, the more we walk, the more you get angry, the more we do business.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0161par1019	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0160par1020	I wish this important law to bring blessings to our country, to speed up our justice system, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0162par1022	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Second speaker on behalf of his subjects, Kütahya MP Alim Ik. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0163par1026	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge on the proposal to change certain laws in order to enable judicial services in 778 rows. This proposal is well known to all the public and representatives of our beloved nation, including very different materials and regulations. However, I would just like to say that I'm concerned that the opinion of the opposition -- indeed -- has not changed in ten years -- with the testimony of valuable representatives of the ruling party. While this nation desires to reach the judiciary as quickly as possible and to meet the services from the judiciary in the best possible way, it is also a matter that we are deeply inclined to deny that the Minister has just presented certain criteria for the courts that have been closed and tried to defend the wrong done. Dear Minister, there's no point in defending it if the Justice and Development Party's governments are closing the courts at the foot of the nation as they take the PKK terrorists on trial in Habur. Now we look at the number of files, we look at the geographical length, we look at the nearest other courthouse, we look at the distance, we look at the municipalities, and we close it accordingly. If you say so, then the decision made by the Judges and Prosecutors' High Council on June 15, 2012 is wrong, and if the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors is wrong a week later, then the decision he made a week ago is wrong. Which is correct, Mr. Secretary? If you returned 44 courthouses, then by what criteria did you return them? I say that the Domanic district of Kütahya Province is the cradle of Osmanlı, has 17,500 inhabitants, is 40km from the nearest district, and many villages are victims. Then why didn't you return this? So, there's nothing to defend here, so if it's wrong, say it's wrong. Together it was wrong, and in this decision, the closure of these courts was wrong, and we corrected it. Say, well, I respect it, but if you try to defend it... 1,500 people are being extradited, not returned to the place that has a population of 17,500 people. So, if you project the court now returned to the public as the success of the AK PARTY MPs of that province, then those people are successful, and our other friends are failing? Is that even possible? So, we've made this mistake again, we're returning it all. Say, "Well, we've closed it all down." There's nothing to defend. If you look at the number of files, then is it a mistake or even a mistake, Mr. Minister, if my citizen in Kütahya did not fight with his neighbor, respected his state, his nation, took a gun to his waist and went up the mountain? How can that be defended? The number of files is not an important indicator. You need to look at the contents of the file. So let's get two neighbors to fight every day, go complain to each other, let's say the number of files in the courthouse increases. Let's win them back. Is that what you're saying? I mean, not this one, not this one. Therefore, the judgment has to be fair, it has to serve the citizen's foot, and the decisions made by the HSYK are being taken at the advice of your Ministry, so correct that mistake, Mr. Secretary. There is great benefit in correcting this mistake immediately, or the citizens of the state of Anatolia are about to rebel. He says, "What is my fault if I didn't take a gun in my hand and go up the mountain?" I'm telling you what's going to come after this: you're going to have to close the prisons, Domanic Prison will be shut down, notaries will be shut down, executive managers will be shut down, then the finances will be shut down. 80% of all the revenues of these small counties are already coming from cases related to the courts. Now, if you don't think about these things together and make this decision right now, you won't be able to stop these people from being victimized tomorrow. See, my illiterate citizen was taking advantage of this courthouse from a village in Karamanca district of Shaphane County, where he could not read or write for the child's child's child's child's alimony. Now he's going to Gediz. How will you end the suffering of this eighty-two-year-old mother who doesn't even know the name of the street in Gediz? Like this, we have many people in Anatolia. So, I think it would be helpful if at least these provisions were included in this package of judgments, and I offer you my regards again.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0164par1034	Dear Light, thank you. Congressmans, the negotiations are complete. There is a motion before the question-answer process. This is a motion issued on the part according to Article 72 of the Civil Code. I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Your imposition is 72. In accordance with the clause of the 278 Numbered Legislature, which has been discussed, We demand and demand that the negotiations on the department continue. Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz İlhan Cihaner Gürkut Acar Omar Suha Aldan Kazim Kurt In judicial practice, the law of criminal judgment is constantly busy with the country's agenda, as well as the problems of arrest and other protection measures. The debate over the Special Official Courts continues in an intense manner. The ECHR's numerous decisions stress that the detention institution in Turkey is not working well, that people are unfairly deprived of their freedoms. In Turkey, imprisonment has been removed from being a temporary measure to ensure the goal of criminal judgment, and has been reduced to a pre-trial punishment. The ECHR ruled that there was a "legal and systematic problem" stemming from the judicial system and law in Turkey, and that the issue was to continue the arrest or detention of the courts. " The nature of the crime, the state of the evidence, the content of the case, is an abstract, cliche basis for their lack of a controversial trial in the study of the legality of imprisonment, asking the Turkish government to take the necessary measures to correct it. However, the government remains unsolved, just seems to solve it. The arrest can only be applied when all the conditions sought in the law are in place and there is no way to reach the desired conclusion of the arrest with other measures. In our country's implementation, detention has been reduced from a temporary measure, to actual imprisonment. The arrest has become an institution out of purpose and abused. 100 of the Penal Code. Article 3. In his joke, the catalog began to be understood and applied, as if it were an automatic arrest warrant, in case there were strong reasons for suspicion that crimes were committed. Even if any crime does not remain among the catalogs of crime in the joke, the presence of more than two persons is described as an organisation, which is brought into the joke and brought into custody. In contrast to the legal regulations in our country, the practice eliminates the "profession of crime" -- which can't be broken even in extreme legal regimes. In this regard, our arrest period is widely accepted in light of UAV implementation. In Turkey, the judicial mechanism does not have the ability to carry out justice. In our country, the expression of justice is problematic in both quantity and quality. The judicial packages that have been announced thus far have not taken concrete and serious steps to speed up the judicial decision process. No problem has been solved. The arrests and lengthy imprisonments faced in our country's implementation have been created, but the problem with this package has not been resolved, as has been done in previous times. Law proposal for the amendment of CHP MPs to the solution to the problem has been combined with this bill, but the talks have not even been considered. 100 of the Penal Code. Article 3. In the joke, the reason for the arrest, in the case of strong suspicion of crimes, is that the cognitive arrangement has begun to be understood and applied, as if it were an automatic arrest warrant. Even if any crime does not remain among the catalogue crimes in the joke, the situation is referred to as an organisation of more than two people, which is referred to as an organisation, and is going to be arrested, as opposed to the legal regulations in our country -- which cannot be broken even in extreme legal regimes -- eliminates the "profit of crime." In this regard, our arrest period is widely accepted in light of UAV implementation. In Turkey, the judicial mechanism does not have the ability to carry out justice. In our country, the expression of justice is problematic both in quantity and in quality. The judicial packages that have been announced so far have not taken concrete and serious steps to speed up the judicial decision process. No problem has been solved, it is kept waiting. For these reasons, it is important to continue negotiations on part one of the proposal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Moving on to question-answer procedure on chapter one. I'll make a promise to our friends who have entered the system in order. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0165par1057	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, are there still criminals who have not been executed for lack of space in prisons, who haven't been taken to prisons? Also, since there's no room in prisons, can you explain how many suspended sentences have been made so far? My second question is, can you explain the reason why a government setting up a mobile court in Habur? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0166par1061	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0167par1062	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the polls on trust in justice in Turkey have shown that confidence has been dwindling. Do you think the Justice Department's practices have any effect on this situation? Another question: There are two courthouses closed in Mersin, one of our 16 great cities, one with Bozyaz, the other with Çamlıya. The population of Bozyaz is about 16,000 and its two towns and villages are about 30,000. Even Tekeleli, a village in the district alone, is 20 kilometers from the district. With pinelia, the summer population is a plateau, so it goes up to around 70 to 80,000 for four months. Do you have any idea that these courthouses might be reopened? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0168par1066	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0169par1068	Thank you. Minister, the number of prisoners and prisoners has increased by three times their capacity, yet the courts are closed, the courts are closed. Isn't that a contradiction? Again, on the other hand, we've changed the sign of state security courts and made a special court of authority. Deputy Prime Minister Bozdağ also said that special competent courts do not belong in the state of Justice. That's why I think special authority courts need to be shut down unconditionally. If you're looking for a name, I'll give you a name called MTM, a.k.a., you can change clients to arrest courts, if they stay. Again, on the other hand, on June 25th, you arrested and imprisoned the presidents and secretaries of all trade unions belonging to KESK, who opposed you. Therefore, these special courts must be closed immediately. Our Çelikhan district, Adıyaman, is 55 kilometers from the centre, and the winter roads are blocked from the snow. There are few cases. You close the court. Will the Steelhans make a scene to prosecute? Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0170par1073	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0171par1074	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, when you just made a statement about the closed courts, you counted three criteria: 10 miles [10 km] from the neighboring courthouse, 2) is a person with fewer than 1,200. 3) The central population is 12,000, with a total population of less than 30,000, We closed down the floors and opened up 44 places, and we opened up the ones that were found to be incompatible with one of them. You said. 1) The central population of Dalaman County is 25,000, the total population is 35. If you have opened the others according to these criteria, why didn't you open the Dalaman court, and why did you punish the people of Dalaman? 2) What's the profit of a citizen's interest in closed courts? 3) What did you gain as Department of Justice as a result of the closure of the court? We'd be very happy if you could put that in context. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0172par1084	Thank you. Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0173par1086	Thank you, Mr. President. With your intervention, I'd like to ask the Minister a question. One is, how much does the court have to spend, including wages, including security for a day in the southern district of Denizli? How much is a day's cost, judgment, and security in Habur? Secondly, do you believe that the bill is well studied? In the commissions, officials speaking on your behalf have made a statement that the reasons for the matter are deliberately written very short. Otherwise, more than one comment is said to be a problem. Is that your order? Reasons in the bill would not have been written when we looked at yesterday's Accreditation Institution Bill. Is this really your instructions, or are these reasons being written for work? The other question is, did you actually do the miles when you measured the distances to close these courthouses, or did you do the bird's-eye view?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0174par1092	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0175par1094	Thank you, Mr. President. In the districts of Karabük, the courts were closed. One of them is Eflani, a former military branch and a former county that has been shut down. We have a population of 9.673. We also have a population of 3,321 in the Ovacık. The closure of such places in the small towns of Anatolia, the closure of military branches and courthouses, is a major economic disaster in the trades. Do you believe they're being objective when they're being shut down? Also in Istanbul, Kadıköy, Beykoz, Chile, Skopjedar, Kartal, Maltepe, also in the Anatolian Side, which includes the city of Kadıköy, Beykoz, Chile, Seküdar. This is an amazing distance, especially from Chile, from Beskoz, from Skopdar. Here we believe that the citizen's application to the courthouse will be very difficult. There is a great benefit for another court to be built again on the Anatolian side. And the great challenges...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0176par1100	Thank you. Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0177par1102	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, do you think there's an arrangement in the Anti-Terror Law, in the Military Penal Code, and in public, in order to reverse the declaration of the sentence in the laws known as the Sikah Law, to make transactions such as registration, money-changing? The court of three districts of Çorum is closed, and the court of Bayat district has been reopened. Thank you for that. However, the courts of the districts of Ortaköy and Megitözü, which are miles away from Bayat district, have not been opened. The logic of this is that Mekitözu and the citizens of Ortaköy are unable to grasp it. We'd appreciate it if you could convince us to ask the bureaucrats who were with you by the mile account. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0178par1106	Thank you, Mr. Köse. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0179par1108	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, although it's about a clause in the fourth chapter, I'd like to know, in terms of interim matter one, the investigation, prosecution and finalized, how many people can be categorically involved in this sentence? Are there any class action cases involved? I'd appreciate it if you could fill me in on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0180par1112	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0181par1114	Thank you, Mr. President. The question of Mr. Scholar Light is: Is there anyone who is therefore suspended because his sentence has been finalized because there is no place in his prisons? For that reason, there is no delay in execution. There's a postponement on the part of the state's attorney's authority in order for those who have been suspended to prove the requirements specified by the law. According to the overall Turkish average, the filling rate in prisons is equal to the current capacity; it appears to be 100 per cent. But there are concentrations of dispersion in certain areas. At the point of balancing these concentrations, there are transplants. In the course of the transports, prisoners, prisoners and their families who do not wish to go to any other area other than the region are stepping in and expressing that the transplants would be a victim of themselves. In general, dear friends, an action plan has been launched in 2009 at the point of solving the density in prisons, and investments that will lead to a serious increase in capacity within the framework of this plan have begun. A significant portion of these investments are currently under construction; 22 criminal execution institutions will start, open in 2012, 34 of our penal institutions in 2013, and more than 50 of our criminal execution institutions will be activated in 2015. In that sense, Mr. Light, there has not been an execution delay as you speak. Other than that, you set up a mobile court in Habur. You said. Dear friends, Habur has been discussed in this General Assembly. In case there is a need, this government does similar practices, as it did in the past. Previously, there is a criminal execution institution in İmralı, but the Ankara State Security Court, as it was called that day, was later brought to the Ankara High Criminal Court, where the separatist organization judged its head. According to the security conditions and changing, changing environment, the opportunity given in the law of procedure has been used in the past, and if necessary after that, it will be used again. Beyond that, Mr. Oz, it is said that confidence in justice is waning. What do you have to say about this? He asked if it had anything to do with the policies of the EC PARTY. Dear friends, of course, this is highly controversial. Criticisms on the judiciary continue from far away in Turkey, and we have repeatedly discussed the fundamental problems of the Turkish judiciary in this General Assembly. These are intense complaints from the length of the trials, from the time of the citizen's meeting with justice; other than that, complaints from the lack of physical capacity; complaints from the poorness of legislation; complaints from the inadequacy of education. A planned study to eliminate all these complaints has been launched in the fall of 2009 -- we have expressed this many times -- and in this framework, these studies that have been going on for a long time in Turkey, under a specific plan in 2009, have taken considerable distances at the point of building physical infrastructure, but this is not enough, building courthouses, improving physical conditions is not the solution. At the same time, it was important to make legislation in line with the conditions of the day, to make it at peace with universal law. Important work has been done, and as far as the fundamental law, the important part of this General Assembly, the ruling opposition has been co-existed. Beyond that, the key step at the creation of trust in the judiciary was the end of trials at a reasonable time and the need for citizens to meet with justice. In order to solve this, we had important results with the arrangements we made in the first two packages. I said, I said, and I expressed it in my speech. In the first-degree courts in Turkey, the process of determining files is between 200 and 210 days, which is 6.5-7 months. 6 million files a year enter the system, punishment and law, 6 million files total. The average end time of these files is 200-210 days. But as a matter of fact, the appeals court is a waste of time. For this reason, the number of chambers of the Supreme Court and the State has been increased, and the number of members has been increased. I stated in my speech that, for the first time in the Supreme Court, from September 2011, more files began to issue. And about 1,200,000 in stock waiting on files. In addition, the regular files were riding on it, and the average 100,000 files per year increased as a workload in the Supreme Court. Now that increase has stopped, the current stockpile has begun to decrease from the existing files and 1 million 200,000 files have been reduced to 880,000. In the first five months of 2011, 68,000 cases were decided in the criminal offices, while more than 200,000 cases were issued in the same five months of 2012. This shows that there has been a significant movement in the Supreme Court, and with this progress, it is also intended that within two years of planning by the Supreme Court, within a year and a half of the sentence, the legal files will be finished and the cases from their first-degree courts will be sent to their territory within two to two and a half months. Which means that the first-degree court file in 200-210 days will be finalized in 11 or 12 months, when it stays in the Supreme Court for two or two and a half months. This is a hard result to imagine for us in Turkey. In that sense, a year and a half in law, two years in criminal cases, hopefully, when we get that limit, I'm also saying that confidence in justice in Turkey will rise rapidly. However, not only is there a delay in physical capacity or trial, but the absence of decisions that are incompatible with universal law also undermines the confidence in justice. At this point, we've shared the measures from time to time with you in this General Assembly. Judges in Turkey are being sent to work in Strasbourg courts; studies are being conducted outside Turkey; many judges, our prosecutors, are being sent abroad to education, and as a result, a criteria for how much our prosecutors consider the trials of the Court of Human Rights have been included. However, a significant portion of the 2,400 violation decision issued by the Human Rights Court against Turkey has been translated into Turkish and has been opened to the use of our prosecutors via the UYAP website. At the point when universal law comes to a peaceful decision, there is also intense effort. At the same time, I salute the General Assembly, saying that this confidence will rise quickly, along with a reasonable period of trial in Turkey, peace with universal law, and the resumption of physical conditions, infrastructure.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0182par1130	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0183par1131	Mr. Secretary, I've asked for some statistical information, can you give them to me on the matter of the temporary one? I mean, it's like a memo in writing.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit01spe0182par1132	Talks on chapter one are complete. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger before we get to section one.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0182par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 128th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 278. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now, the talks on chapter one were complete, and I'm going to submit the clauses in chapter one to your separate votes after I've done the motion procedures on them. There are three motions on article 1: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and supply to change the declaration of 278 rows of the 1st Article of the 1st Amendment to the 5th Amendment. 30.06.2012 Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat Sırrıyya Leader İbrahim Rider Fair Wolf Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 778-selected Bill of the Common Law; 1). Article 5 of the 1st Amendment to Article No. 2004. After the word "change" in the joke, and the addition of the word into the text, and the removal of the other words from the text, 2) * The bailiffs serving in the judicial body are 36 of the 657 Law. The article is assessed in the SINIFI section. We provide and propose that the sentence be added as the last joke. Faruk Bal Oktay Vural Muharrem Varlı Ali Self-Knowing Light S. Nevzat Don't Fear Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in the middle of a bill of 278 rows. We propose and propose that Article 1 of Law 2004, which is replaced with Article 1 of the article, be removed from the text of the 5th. Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Ömer Süha Aldan Gürkut Acar Mr. Commission, do you agree with the final motion read?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0184par0030	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0182par0031	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0185par0032	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0182par0033	Mr. Acar, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0186par0034	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge on the 1st Amendment to certain Laws in the Purpose of Enabled Judicial Services in 278 rows, and on the 1st Article of the Bill of Law on Postponing Trials and Punishments Against Crimes in the Way of the Press. I salute you all again. Dear friends, see, a spokesman for the Justice and Development Party here just now, one of our friends, the Opposition, does this, gives empty motions, and takes our time with empty motions. I couldn't stand it, so I had to talk about my place. Dear friends, look, if you view the opposition this way, the name of this regime is not democracy, it can't be. Therefore, you must tolerate the use of our rights here. My dear friends, look, you're in violation of the Constitution, you're in violation of the Constitution, and the reason for these constitutions all over the world, all constitutions and all administrative law systems, is only for the constraint of the power of sovereignty, which is a devastating force, so that the power, people, members, and individuals do not crush, and there is a violation of the Constitution. I'm going to try to explain my views on this substance, especially in five points. First: There is a violation of the Constitution, my dear friends, because it is strictly contrary to the Constitution's provisions of the second joke of executive managers and executive assistants, interviewing, transfer, title change, promotion and other issues. So, what does his second joke tell 128? The qualifications of the officers and other public officials, their appointments, their duties and powers, their rights and obligations, monthly and other resources are regulated by law. Now, tell me, is the opposition talking nonsense, or is it a serious criticism? My dear friends, look, you put a verbal exam here. What does oral exams do? I'm telling you briefly: oral trials help to organize the AKP at every level, at every level of the state. You look after your own people, your own allies, and you bring them in for verbal tests.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0187par0042	That's right, that's right!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0186par0043	Congratulations, you're doing so well; congratulations! Yes, and you must remove the justice of the Justice and Development Party because you did not leave justice in Turkey. Dear friends, secondly, decisions made by executive and bankruptcy agencies are written on the basis of the report. I'd like to point out the number of staff here. Dear friends, for thirty-nine years, I've been a friend of yours who's been an actual lawyer. The terms of work in executive offices are bad enough to exceed mercy, and there are not enough staff. Therefore, with this requirement written, it is of no importance to write this item if the number of staff is not done together. Third: Dear friends, this clause has to send an invitation to pay legitimately through registered mail to the last known address of the debtor. That would be a waste of time, and the creditors would be victimized for their notice costs. Therefore, this arrangement must be removed from the bill. Fourth: The provision of the bill is to expand the scope of irreparable goods, in which the property foreclosure is almost terminated. The balance of rights and justice between the creditors and the debtors has been severely corrupted here. This will undermine the trust of citizens who are unable to collect what they are about to receive. Therefore, the right arrangement here should be that the economic value is not foreclosure of goods that will not cover the sale and conservation costs of the goods. We demand that it be replaced this way. My dear friends, at this fifth point brought in by the bill, would ask for six months from the foreclosure and six months from the foreclosure, and from the foreclosure, to be sold within a year. The arrangement is not realistic. In real estate, in real estate, that's not enough time for a year. Because the gathering of information here in Article 100 will result in the lack of sufficient time for relevant information and other issues. Therefore, this substance needs to be rearranged and increased time. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0188par0051	Mr. Acar, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0189par0052	That's enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0188par0053	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... We'll do it with electronics, sir, since there's been a disagreement between the clerks. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 778-selected Bill of the Common Law; 1). Article 5 of the 1st Amendment to Article No. 2004. After the word "change" in the joke, and the addition of the word into the text, and the removal of the other words from the text, 2) * The bailiffs serving in the judicial body are 36 of the 657 Law. The article is assessed in the SINIFI section. We provide and propose that the sentence be added as the last joke. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0190par0065	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0188par0066	Mr. Government, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0191par0067	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0188par0068	Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0192par0070	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The bill stipulates that executive personnel will be held under written examinations, oral examinations, commissions, transfers, title changes, promotions in the mission and other issues under regulations. Other issues, such as where to start and where to end, have been added to an uncertain declaration. It is an abstract expression, and it involves the risk that anyone who serves in the executive offices can be clamped down and their rights of professional and autonomy can be replaced by an arrangement that can be easily removed from the Ministry. The executive staff also performs forensic procedures. The fact that those who serve in the legal state are forced to work with all kinds of political pressures and effective regulations is one of the factors that undermines judicial independence. That's why we want this statement removed from the draft text. Dear lawmakers, AKP's economy of rant and interest has put the country into an inextricable debt spiral, and even issues that concern the safety of our nation today have given birth to weaknesses such as the failure to raise our voice. There are interesting changes in economic and social life as well because of AKP's economic policies. Some sectors are becoming increasingly powerful and more decisive and guiding sectors. For example, it is a banking system where people are struggling to make ends meet, with high interest rates from citizens and with high profits from the smallest risk. Almost no money to the banks, no farmers, no tradesmen, no civil servants. Banks work at zero risks, and in any situation or profit, they get a lot of profits. The fact that more than half of the banks are in the hands of foreigners is also an issue of discomfort. The banking system has become a monster that sucks the marrow out of the country's people. Another example has been faced by AKP's economic policies and the country's children, the wages of poverty and the cheap labor brokership. The government, which says it's privatizing services, has given subcontractors power, power. Non-producing, making billions by al-sat alone, is one of the stars the AKP has raised. In the public sector, the same is true of the executive agencies, whose workload is increasing, economic and social, and in every stage of cultural life. As the AKP closes the courts one by one, the number of executive agencies is increasing exponentially in each province. Our colleagues here are not happy about it either. Our non-responsive citizen is almost out of action. Instead of the production economy, these are the natural consequences of AKP's rant and interest economy, where labour and sweat are excluded and easy gains and exploitation is the crown. The future cannot be mentioned in a country where executive agencies have broken working records. There'll be no peace at first. The officers in the executive office are also in trouble. The AKP continues to load new loads to executive workers doing a difficult public service. The Department of Justice issued a statement five months ago. Executive officers are assigned to court and prosecutors as duty clerks. As if they had time to breathe in their own apartments, their legislation is forced to work in areas that require different and technical legal information. There are also challenges in custody cases, child delivery and delivery cases imposed on fellow bailiffs. Children are an object, not an object. The procedures, which should be implemented by social services agencies, have been carried out by executives for years and are given the opportunity for dramatic events. These antiquated practices must be terminated. Again, according to Law 6183, there are also executive officers of the authority of the Treasury officers, and the Treasury foreclosures are being carried out by the Ministry of Justice. Tomorrow, in a matter that will become a matter of court order, the courts will be turned into sides to appeal to him for justice. Dear lawmakers, we can spend hours and hours talking about the modern construction of executive agencies and the resolving of their employees to a human-oriented working environment and rights, but we're short on time. While we are ready to support the work of the Justice Department as the National Movement Party on this matter, I wish to welcome the Grand Assembly with respect to an economic life where executive agencies have been unemployed and are not working.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0193par0080	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and supply to change the declaration of 278 rows of the 1st Article of the 1st Amendment to the 5th Amendment. 30.06.2012 Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0194par0087	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0193par0088	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0195par0089	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0193par0090	Mr. Sakık, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0196par0092	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. While these laws are being discussed today, these laws are not the laws that will solve Turkey's fundamental problems, but there is a improvement at some point. There are also groups that are seriously disturbed by this. Today, no one gives anyone the right to insult the representatives of a people and the children of a people, based on a newspaper report about asparagas. We simply say: You may dislike us, you may disagree with our thoughts, but no one gives you the right to insult us. The man you call Barzani (Barzani) represents 5 million people in South Kurdistan, where he stands with his government. The three and a half million people you insult, the one you insult... come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Speaker of Parliament in 2006...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0197par0094	What does Ocalan have to do with anything? Ocalan...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0196par0095	Wait a minute, there's something... Don't shout! You won't shout, you won't listen, you won't insult...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0197par0097	Who do you represent?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0196par0098	You won't be able to justify it. Don't shout! You're not gonna scream!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0197par0099	You're presenting the leader of a terrorist organization as a representative of the Kurds! Look at this place!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0196par0100	... and it's my will. It says.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0198par0101	So we're not gonna call the killer a murderer? He's not a killer?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0197par0102	Wasn't the baby in the arson Kurdish?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0199par0103	Please... please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0200par0104	Now, look, just yesterday, here, on this stand...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0197par0105	He did 338 massacres, wasn't he Kurd?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0201par0106	You're insulting the Turkish nation, that's enough!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0202par0107	Are we interfering while you're out there saying something?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0203par0108	...how the Iranian militant was photographed with the Queen, and how they held hands for peace.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0204par0109	You're making all Kurdish people look like terrorists!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0205par0110	Minister, where is Ocalan? Your answers are not clear at all.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0203par0111	...we've all seen it together, that's what happened in England, but you can't just come back here and do it with insults.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0204par0112	The man who shot the baby in the arson is the killer!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0203par0113	To us, when you turn around...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0206par0114	You're insulting the Turkish nation in the first place!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0207par0115	We call the killer the separatist, the traitor the traitor the traitor.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0203par0116	Back to those who taught us morality, back to September 12th, in the murder of 5,000 people, in the trigger of their weapons...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0206par0117	You insult the Veteran Parliament! You insult the integrity of the Turkish state, the unity of the nation!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0208par0118	Mr. President, step in, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0209par0119	Mr. President, why aren't you interfering?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0210par0120	If anyone's involved, look into them.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0211par0121	Mr. Sakık, please... please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0210par0122	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0212par0123	Are you Ocalan's lawyer?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0213par0124	Why aren't you interfering, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0214par0125	Please, please... okay... calm down, please. Here you go, Mr. Sakik. Go ahead.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0215par0127	Look, you may not like it, you may not agree...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0216par0128	Of course we don't!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0215par0129	...you're ruling us out. Because there are no Kurds, you say, the Kurds have no democratic rights.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0216par0130	If you identify with Ocalan, you don't exist for me!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0217par0131	A man who kills Kurds is a murderer, a murderer!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0215par0132	So you're saying that at this point...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0216par0133	You don't exist for me either, if you're pairing yourself with Ocalan.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0215par0134	And clearly... Look, Mr. President, would you step in, please?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0218par0136	Please, friends... please... please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0219par0137	Is that how you're gonna run it, Mr. President? Is that how you're gonna run it?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0220par0138	Let him speak according to the Law, and speak according to the Law.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0221par0139	Clearly, this is a terrorist organization's defense. You're the lawyer for Ocalan!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0222par0140	Look, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0223par0141	Mr. President, why aren't you interfering?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0224par0142	Mr. President, is this how you're going to run it?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0225par0143	I'm telling both sides to stay calm, ma'am, and you don't have to yell at me.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0224par0144	Why aren't you interfering?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0225par0145	I'm asking you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, sir. Please... please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0226par0146	Look, don't make us talk, don't make us talk. We don't give in to this kind of pressure. Turn around, before September 12th, we know whose fingerprints are on the murder of 5,000 people, whose prints are on the triggers, whose prints are on the government archives.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0227par0147	Whose fingerprints are on it? There was a PKK back then.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0226par0148	So don't give us that moral lesson.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0227par0149	We know who's got fingers and who's a murderer!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0226par0150	And because a people here were wronged, they went and took refuge in the mountains.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0228par0151	You're defending the killer of 40,000 people. You're defending the murderer of 40,000 people!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0229par0152	Mr. President, step in!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0230par0153	Mr. Korkmaz, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0231par0154	And we forbid you...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0232par0155	Are we afraid of you?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0231par0156	...we swear to you, no one has the right to act like this again, to insult you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0233par0157	50,000 times we say "killer" 50,000 times!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0234par0158	He's a murderer! How can you forbid it? How do you forbid it?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0231par0159	Look, look, look, look, look at who's killed this people in your past, who's out there in the mirror, obviously you're...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0234par0160	In our past, there is a struggle, no separatism, no treachery...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0235par0161	This is not the stage to praise murderers!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0236par0162	We're proud of our past!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0234par0163	This is not a propaganda place for separatist organizations.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0235par0164	This isn't a hall of praise for murderers!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0237par0165	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0238par0166	This isn't your father's farm either. This is the public's bench. The people's will is speaking here. You should respect the values of the people.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0235par0167	It's not the bench to legitimize the ones who killed Kurds in the first place.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0238par0168	You can't just turn around and insult us! Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0239par0170	Mr. President, Mr. President, would you step in, please... step in, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0240par0171	Ma'am, I'm interfering and I'm saying it. Beyond that...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0239par0172	You're not interfering, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0241par0173	Why aren't you interfering? Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0239par0174	They won't let the preacher speak. What kind of a thing is that? Are we interfering with them?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0242par0175	The petitions are waiting in the Assembly's archives, Mr. President, and those petitions are in the Assembly's archives.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0243par0176	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0244par0177	Sir, there's nothing we can say but ask. I'm asking you, and you're hearing it. Please... please. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0243par0179	Now, all they have is rejection and denial, only PKK and weapons. Of course, we don't expect anything from the understanding that only martyr literature and martyrs are being despondent. But we're giving you a clear warning. Look, we...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0244par0180	Mr. Sakek, please don't stretch...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0245par0181	Don't wait, no one says wait.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0246par0182	We have nothing to contribute to you!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0247par0183	Don't. We're not waiting.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0248par0184	We don't need any.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0249par0185	Mr. President, please, I beg you...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0250par0186	Please... please... please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0251par0187	You go and have a road trip with the AKP, never mind.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0249par0188	You can't just treat yourself like a master and treat us like slaves.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0252par0189	Talk to your partners, don't talk this way!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0249par0190	Look, we're telling you clearly, you're not the master of this country. And you'll know your place, against us...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0253par0192	Go talk to your partners.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0254par0193	You'll talk in Oslo, you'll negotiate, we'll fight here!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0249par0194	You will respect the will of the people.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0253par0196	Go talk in Oslo, come on!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0255par0197	Mr. Sakık, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0256par0199	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0255par0200	...the ones who don't agree...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0256par0201	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0255par0202	The motion is not accepted. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0256par0204	Mr. President, we need to underline something. The secretary pointed to 3.5 million signatures from the bench that are now in the archives of the House. These are in the archives of the House. The citizens of this country have signed their opinion to Parliament, and this Parliament has shown responsibility and has not done its duty. Such interference in Hatibin's speech should have been avoided by you, not by you. We condemn you in this matter.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0255par0205	I, all our friends, and you heard that I asked as much as I could...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0257par0206	What if he gets seven heifers, seven heifers? What the hell happened to them?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0256par0207	Mr. President, are we doing a seven-digit thing? What happened?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0255par0208	Please... please, ma'am, calm down. Please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0256par0209	Intervene, how do you call me lady? Look, he says seven duvets, so don't be silent.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0258par0210	Shut up, shut up!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0256par0211	Don't talk!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0259par0212	You're yelling at everyone who talks.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0260par0213	I didn't stay silent, ma'am, I didn't stay silent.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0261par0214	Yes, the seven heifers have come, and we have always been one in this geography, thank God, to the east, to the west, to the north, to the south; and we shall be so again.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0260par0215	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0261par0216	No one will interrupt, no one will separate! Everybody put that in your head!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0262par0217	No one will be able to divide this country!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0263par0219	What division are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0264par0220	Mr. President, look, you say stop talking about us, why don't you say anything to them?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0265par0221	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0266par0222	Everyone has to pay for that one day.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0267par0223	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0268par0224	Mr. President, at this rate, they'll be hard to fit into.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0269par0225	Is this how you're going to make peace, and this is how you're going to bring democracy to this country?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0270par0226	We don't speak in the jargon you understand.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0271par0227	Racist, monogamous, nationalist policies will divide this country.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0272par0228	Congressmans, please, calm down. Article 1 of...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0273par0232	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0272par0233	Sir, you've been asked to make a roll call as you submit item number 1 to your votes. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Ööner, Mr. Firat, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Pine, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Kart, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Değirindereli, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Acar. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 2: 278 Orders of Law Proposal 2. We propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Decisions made by executive and bankruptcy agencies are recorded in the reports along with their reasons. Bahattin Şeker Seyfetttin Yilmaz Alim Light Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 2nd amendment of the 778-tiered bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Ömer Suha Aldan Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0274par0260	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0272par0261	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0275par0262	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0272par0263	Who will speak, Mr. Hamzacebi?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0276par0264	Mr. Ilhan Cihaner...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0272par0265	Ilhan Cihaner, Denizli MP. Here you are, Mr. Cihaner.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0277par0268	I salute everyone. And first of all, I'd like to say something about these closing courthouses. Of course, some courts had to be shut down, he might have been right, but there was no common, objective, mental criteria. The only thing that can be said to the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice is, "You don't know this business, so if you change a decision a week ago after a week, there's a serious problem here. Everyone pointed out the economic aspects of the courts -- the closure of the courts -- but there will be a result that opens the door to multi-laws, especially if it is evaluated with the new regulation of law conflicts. So it's going to become a multi-law structure of local values in remote residential areas, which is actually the first step in neoliberalization of the privatisation of the judiciary. You have to see it as the most important step in transitioning from a court of justice to an unjust trial. Just as a mosque's congregation is few, do your worship at a mosque 40km away. If we don't say, or if we can't calculate profitability about running water, it can't be acted on commercial concerns about the most important sense of justice in human need. For him, the matter of closed courts must be considered from this point of view and reassessed. I said, "You don't know this business." I said, "Because there's a court of law that's been waiting for almost seven years." There have been loans from the European Union regarding the court of law, buildings built. The key instrument for reducing the workload of the judiciary is the resumption court, which is currently not being implemented. If there are no court of law, such bills will be brought up very often, there will be debates. For the first time, the Justice Minister said that the file from the Supreme Court was more than the one that came in. This, of course, is not a realistic assessment of quantity and quality, which is very good for the neoliberal view, which should not be involved in justice. We know that the Supreme Court's Attorney has given instructions to the judges, prosecutors and Supreme Court prosecutors who have come for training, not to make a disparity-in-the-substantial debate on cases that have been appealed to. Clearly, this kind of acceleration would not be fair if the assessment of work-related work alone entered statistically. And one of the speakers, in connection with this September 12th trial, was a critic of the talks that our president and Republican People's Party had said earlier that September 12th could not be judged. The trial is not about the court, the prosecutor, the indictment. Judgement is a process in accordance with the principles of fair judgment, in accordance with international law, in accordance with universal law, and in the purpose of actually accountability. There's only one judge. There's only one charge. There's no prosecution. Especially when it comes to settling the score with the mind of September 12th, the people who are going to settle with the mind of September 12th shouldn't be the children of September 12th. 6. Those who make the fleet's ships their qiblah probably won't be able to settle on September 12th. [[Applause from CHP rows]] If we're going to do a comparison with September 12th: September 12th means dissolution of the House; there are arrested MPs now, which also means partial dissolution of the House. September 12 is Diyarbakır Prison; there are still torture-like isolations in F-type prisons, in Silivri, in Kandira, in many prisons. September 12 is the arrest of intellectuals, opponents, students; at the moment, intellectuals, students, even lawmakers are under arrest in prison. September 12th was done against the left, and the biggest damage is the left. September 12th means martial law courts, which means DGMs; special officials, special officials who replace them, perform the same function. September 12 is the burning of books; now we are at a time when unwritten books are collected and books are considered crimes. I repeat, the children of September 12th cannot be dealt with by September 12th. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0278par0277	Thank you, Mr. Cihaner. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. 278 Orders of Law Proposal 2. We propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Decisions made by executive and bankruptcy agencies are recorded in the reports along with their reasons. Bahattin Sugar and her friends Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0279par0285	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0278par0286	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0280par0287	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0278par0288	Mr. Bahattin Sugar, Elekt MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0281par0291	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a commitment to present law proposals in the present day, when the setbacks in the justice system have marked our country's agenda and become a social injury. At the beginning of my words, while I wait for it to contribute to the solution to the accumulated problems, I find that at the point of further deepening the problems, there are also great responsibilities to our Minister. All our friends have told us that the closing of the Courthouse of 146 districts and the opening of 44 courthouses have disturbed us and the community. This will be a very serious decision, given what problems it will cause in the near future when it is now in need of explanations and debates in terms of cause and outcomes. In addition, the question of which criteria have been made has left the explanation of decisions and practices in question, as well as the questionable situation in which the decision has been cancelled with political concerns. The district of Bazayeri, Bilecik Province, is one of these districts. In terms of population and work density, the Marketing Court is closed as well -- if it does not have the criteria -- where there are less than 20 districts in our district. I'd like to make a note of it in the presence of your grand delegation, that it will victimize our citizens and further deepen the problems that have occurred. This has been a disappointment in Bilecik province, where we bring up a new courthouse building, a new courthouse and a new open prison in Bayırköy district. So I'd like to ask you, what problem, for God's sake, will it solve, to eliminate the existing gain, as we await healings and radical solutions? Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to remind you here, Mr. Secretary, that the victims of the execution guard, who, in particular, shared their problems with us on this occasion as we were discussing the pains of the justice system, were trying to make their voices heard. This is also the case of the execution guard who served without the rights to the rights of military, police, security and police officers serving as police officers. Some improvements must be made to include in the general administrative classroom of staff officers whose staff issues are unclear, their wages are low, and they lack the compensation of weariness. Such issues as bonuses, overtime, social rights, and holiday holidays are also among the problems collected. This is our friends in a situation that lacks union rights, organizational rights, and organizational rights. Given the fact that they may and may be threatened, they do not even have a service. Dear friends, I believe you should look after your children, these friends of ours, who have no control over their homes and security, where families will live in peace. Dear friends, these have always been seen as guards, and their image has been badly damaged in movies and shows. But I think the Minister has ignored these issues while he's dealing with prisons. Dear friends, in the final chapter of my speech, I wish to our country and our nation, God willing, peaceful, hopeful, and stronger futures, where injustice, injustice, and injustice, and injustice, and injustice, have been carried out in the streets, and terror has been forgotten, and violence, and killings, and our consciences have been brought to the wrong, and injustice, and persecution, and to our nation, I hope, peace, hope, and strength. As lawmakers, we need to remember that the path of unity, integrity, and brotherhood is through the determination of a conscientious and righteous political will. No one, especially those representing political will, can ignore the plague that falls on him. It must not be forgotten that everyone will need the power of law someday. The foundation of Turkey, the strong and great, is to have a sense of justice and justice. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0282par0302	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. There are two motions on the third article: To the presidency of TBM, 278 Orders of Law Proposal 3. Article (2). We would like to add the signage of the wet signature to come after the euphemisms mentioned in the joke. Seyfettin Yilmaz Bahattin Sugar Scholar Light Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 3rd draft of the 278 rows of the bill we're discussing. Article 2 of Article 8/A added to Law 2004 According to the article, electronic data generated by safe electronic signatures is under bond rule. We offer and propose that safe electronic signatures be removed from the text with the same evidence power as signed by hand. Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Omar Suha Aldan Kazim Kurt Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0283par0319	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0282par0320	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0284par0321	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0282par0322	Kazim Kurt, Eskişehir; come in, Mr. Kurt.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0285par0324	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding the 3rd Amendment. I salute you all. First of all, we have to discuss whether there really is a fair and real justice system at what we call the basis of justice property, but we have to evaluate an electronic signature and the security of the UYAP system. Prisoners who entrusted themselves and their safety to the state in prison, while prisoners were on fire, while prisoners were burning in prison vehicles, the Ministry, who held their hands still, wants us to bring this bill in order to speed up justice services. All our friends have just tried to tell us that in a country where hundreds of courthouses are closed, justice services cannot be accelerated. Electronic signature is in the form of a bond, yes, but I think we need to discuss what kind of justice service such an application would speed up in a county without an executive agency, which would activate the services of justice. One of the courts closed in Eskişehir is the Seyitgazi Courthouse. If you close down the courthouse in a town of 2 boroughs outside the centre of 15,000 populations, which is internationally important, what will speed up the service of these villages to the Eskişehir Courthouse, to the Eskişehir executive office, to the Eskişehir executive office, which service will we effectively spread to the public? I think we need to discuss this. If justice is the foundation of the state, justice must be operated effectively and widely in all districts. The way to run this is to get the personnel reinforcements from justice services -- especially what needs to be done -- to be brought to justice. While there are hundreds of staff who deserve to be appointed editor-in-chiefs, even though they have won their editor-in-chief exams, it has to be made very clear to everyone that there is no right reason to try to close the courts without having their staff and appointment. The executive and bankruptcy law can't function unless it's fully restored. From time to time, the changes in the law of labour bankruptcy have made the Law of Executive and Bankruptcy a form that allows it to act according to psychology at the time and regulates it with different logics. And now, with the changes that are being made in the Enforcement and Bankruption Act, it's trying to create a sense that the process is being accelerated, but the main thing here is to manage the economy well. If you can't manage the economy well, you'll need the Executive and Bankruptcy Law, and it's really trying to buy time by taking advantage of all the negatives in the broken trade, merchants, industrialists, Emancipation and Bankruption Act. If you make Turkey really effective in the world and Europe one of the number of economies, increase production, improve the welfare level of our people, then there won't be much work in the Enforcement and Bankruption Act, there will be no work, there will be no employment, and there will be effective justice service with the current staff. Without considering these facts, it was only and only us who did it. It is not wise to bring these laws in a very dominant way and by acting with logic. We'd appreciate it if you'd support this motion. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0286par0336	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the presidency of TBM, 278 Orders of Law Proposal 3. Article (2). We would like to add the signage of the wet signature to come after the euphemisms mentioned in the joke. Seyfettin Yilmaz (Adana) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0287par0343	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0286par0344	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0288par0345	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0286par0346	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0289par0348	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding Article 3 of Law Bill 278, which is currently under discussion. I salute you all. Now, I'd like to point out, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Mr. Minister of Justice, that even if you make the most beautiful laws in the world, I would like to point out that the laws you've made have no meaning, even if the executives you've appointed prevent you from implementing them. Now, I want to tell you about an incident in my own constituency, Adana. Adana Demirspor went from Second League to Asia for the first time in eight years, and in the process of exiting, the President of the Demirspor Club entered the prison, the council members took the team to a certain point, and then, for the first time in many years, a dedicated group of businessmen from Adana Demirspor had taken Adana Demirspor, a dedicated member of the People's Party of Justice and Development, and a deputy from the Party of Justice and Development was appointed as the leader of Mehmet Gökoğlu. Against this list was pressured at the withdrawal of the leadership that made the Mehmet Gökoğlu team the champion and the election with a single list. Against these pressures, the Demirspor executives said: "We are candidates, let's go with a double list, and whoever wins will be the head of the congress. The mentality that he was going to lose the convention... was that a number of events broke out at the convention on Thursday. Look, dear lawmakers, I want to draw your attention to the following. That's Thursday, two days ago. On Thursday, right after the convention was cancelled, a number of institutions in the Associations Directorate and Adana have seized the papers of Demirspor. On Monday, there is a convention, not tomorrow, but after tomorrow, and the documents began to be reviewed. It wasn't enough. They said: "We are withdrawing it, you too, go to a government chair of the Justice and Development Party's two-term presidency. What will happen if we don't go?" I'm just saying, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, I'm saying what a governor and relevant officials say, and they say: "If you don't comply, you're all businessmen, there's no guarantee that your papers won't be examined." You can't get any help from the governor's office, from the city. Now Mehmet Gökoglu, the head of the leadership that made this team the champion, withdrew from running for president, but a number of businessmen in Adana, against the horror empire, against oppression and oppression, are still preparing a list against the governor's list and the administration. I'm calling to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice, and I'd like to submit to the Parliamentary report that you can't use the resources of the state to create fear empires and pressures on anyone. I'd like to point out that the Governor of Adana has been responsible for any further incidents that may have occurred to them or any hostile attitude towards the management of Adana Demirspor at this time, and as his follower, I'd like to say that I will follow him as the Adana MP.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0290par0352	He thinks he's a dictator? That's a disgrace!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0289par0353	I mean, that's unfair and illegal, and that's not going to happen, precious deputies. So Adana Demirspor is a historical club.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0290par0354	He's already admitted to doing illegal and immoral operations, Minister.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0289par0355	It is a team of the workers of Adana, and of the merchants, and of the officers, and of the industrialists, and of Adana. We have two teams called Adanaspor and Demirspor. Adanaspor kidnapped Super League in the final match with Kasympaşa. Adana needs morale and motivation. Now I appeal to your consciences, and I really expect an answer from the authorities. Is that the authority of a governor of Adana? I don't want to put this kind of pressure on...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0291par0357	Where does he get his instructions, his instructions?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0289par0358	Where does he get this power and power? Now let's figure out what clause we're going to take out here, and how will democracy get to this country if those who possess its power do this kind of persecution? Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Mr. Secretary, I want to be asked and I want your answer. Look, you can call it this. The Deputy Group President, who I believe is objective, is here. For God's sake, have an audience with Adana, it's crawling with Adana. There is a serious reaction at the point of this work, which is being directed to the people's team in Adana. I mean, that kind of injustice, that kind of illegality, that's what the Adanaan's going to answer to. I'll be a follower, but... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice to follow this in the context of judicial reform.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0292par0363	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 4 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 4th draft of the 278th row of the bill we're discussing. Article 2 of Article 9 of Law 2004 replaced with Article 2004 Or the addition of his lawyer's statement to the joke, which is followed by the following declaration of interest. The first joke will be adopted by the Ministry of Justice. We propose and propose that the statement be added in the state banks after the declaration and the statement taken out of the text in the banks. Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Ömer Suha Aldan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0293par0375	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0292par0376	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0294par0377	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0292par0378	Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0295par0380	Thank you, Mayor. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Today is June 30th, Retirement Day. On June 30, 1927, the Great Leader Ataturk decided to retire, leaving the uniform he carried with honor. The founder of the Republic of Turkey, the unique statesman, Ataturk, retired June 30, 1927, each year we celebrate the day of the pensioners. Unfortunately, in our country, our pensioners don't get the living standards they deserve. I celebrate this day when the current political power is trying to fight for life under the poverty line and ignores the problems they're going through, with a sprain in my heart on the 30th of June Retirement Day of all our pensioners. While celebrating the Day of Retirement, civil servants' salaries at the public institution pay promotion fees, banks pay promotion fees, pensioners are also denied this promotional fee. In order to address this inequality from political power, on behalf of the pensioners, I would like to ask that the promotion fee at least be paid at the banks where the pensioners' money is laid. When we look at the amendment to the Law on Bankruptcy, the valued lawmakers have been changed 16 times, including today, since the Law on Disposal was first adopted in 1929. The date of 1929, 1932, 1940, 1956, 1962, 1968, 1981, 1965, 1985, 1988 and 2003, 10 times; from 2003 to 2003 -- including today -- has been changed twice in 2003, 2004, 2005, 2005 - 2005 - 2005, and as of today, 16 times in 2012. So from 2002 to today, six times in ten years of power have been changed by the Criminal Bankruption Act, but from 1929 to 2002, it has changed nine times. What am I trying to say here? I'm trying to say this in terms of an indication that the political power has decided on the law without enough research, without enough research, without consulting social services, without reviewing it. And why do we say in this 9th article, precious friends, that the money of executions and courthouses should be deposited in state banks? For this reason, we say: Up until 2005, all the funds of the court were being deposited into state banks, but after 2005, the Minister of Justice, Cemil Cicek, was decided to be transferred to Akbank. By 2005, the income of the Law of Harçs was also registered to the state in accordance with Article 36, but after 2005, sir, the dates of the generalisation of the bank, which was co-advised by the general administration of the Ministry of Justice and the transfer of money to Akbank have been recorded. In this sense, from 2005 to 2008, after the sale of the ATV in 2008, because of the loans to the Peoplebank Group, and from the Bank of the Foundations at that time, due to the lack of cash at that time, the funds have been placed in the Foundations Bank without interest. So, the 36th article of the Law of Elevens, the interest of all the money that lies in banks, belongs to the state. From 2005 until now, even among my questions, I asked the Minister, from 2005, how much is the interest of justice, justice, the money that the courts have invested? The question has not been answered. The goal here is that we have districts in Turkey where there are no agricultural banks, and we have districts where there are no other banks except the Bank of Agriculture. The interest is paid according to Article 36 of the Law on Earnings; the interest of the money invested by the court is not paid outside the Bank of Agriculture. Here we have one, unfair competition; two, inequality; three, one loss of public income. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In this regard, we've offered to invest money in government banks. I urge you to support the motion. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0296par0393	Mr. Tanal, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 5 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in the middle of a bill of 278 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Omar Suha Aldan B. Suheyl Batum Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0297par0404	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0296par0405	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0298par0406	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0296par0407	Mr. Batum, Eskişehir MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0299par0410	Thank you, Mr. President. Very valuable lawmakers, dear friends, we're talking about the law on improving and activation of judicial services 278 rows. Now, as we talk about this law, first of all, as this bill is discussed, on June 12th, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ says: (In a legal state, in a normal legal state, there are no private courts, there are no courts, there shouldn't be any courts. We're looking at the law: there's nothing to say when you say that he's brought an arrangement for special authorities to improve judicial services. Later, Mr. Ahmet Aydın did not mention the law when he explained his views on the entire law; instead, he talks about treason, resisting coups. Well, why? What should he do, dear friends? What's he gonna do? There's nothing in the law they bring to improve judicial services, nothing to improve judicial services, nothing to speed up judgment. Then there will be no such courts in the state of law, to speak of coups, to speak of treason, or to say what has to be done. My dear friends, this coup commission, the 9th President, Mr. Süleyman Demirel, of those who listened in it, said to those who made up the coup commission, "We were called here because of the certainty, and we are speaking because of the uncertainty." The most important, even more important, is the treatment and the value of the AKP MPs, the very precious ministers, here you are, for what you have done, for what you have done, for what you have allowed, for what you have done, for what you have done, for what you have done. You're guilty of that treatment, but we're not talking about that treatment today. Dear friends, when we make the law, let us make it very clear that you are guilty of making Kuddusi Okrır. You are guilty of having the Explorer Kozinoglu killed. You are guilty, guilty, for ignoring what has been done to Hilmioğlu the Conqueror. You are guilty of causing 13 people to burn alive in a prison in Şanlıurfa. (CHEERING) You're guilty of ignoring them. Now that you've arrived, what are you doing? You're trying to change the judgment, not the answer. In fact, you're not changing it, and you're trying to paint us by claiming you've changed it. For the last time, dear friends, you have made these laws, these reasonings, the laws that bring this treatment, and you have brought it. You brought in the special jurisdictional courts. You put him on probation for ten years. In 2006, you brought the law that allowed all judges to be appointed to power by five bureaucrats of the Minister of Justice. And ye brought 250, and 51, and 52. After that, what did you say to us? What should we do? The judges decide, we don't. You said, "We're not giving it to you." But you all used those friends over there together, and you said, "No way, don't touch the same judges when something is being done for Hakan Fidan overnight." I thought those laws didn't change. How did you change the law in five years and six years in one night? Can we change the rules? What do you say we switch prosecutors? You tried to fool us. Then what did you do? You changed it all in one night. What do you call us now? Honey, it was all a joke. Now we'll change the wisdom, not the perfection, not the treatment. You say that. Dear friends, I'm just saying this. We're going to talk a lot more here today on other substances. I'm not saying this to make a difference or anything. It's there anyway... and I'm not telling the ministers to tell them. But let's just say that these days. Tomorrow, even when you're looking at your children's faces, let's at least say that to our children's faces. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I say we should not be ashamed when we look at the family of these Kuddusi Okrır, the family of the explorer Kozinoglu. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0300par0424	Thank you, Mr. Batum. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. Congressmans, there is now a motion for a new clause violation. The motion for the new clause is, as they know, the fourth clause of the Article 87 of the Interior Charter, which requires a amendment to a clause that does not exist in the commission text, but is very closely related to the bill or proposal. Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the Commission. If the commission joins the motion, mostly with 14 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and Adding the accompanying framework clause to come in after Article 5 of the framework of the Law Bill on the Prohibition of Cases and Punishments Against Some Laws in the Purpose of Enabled 278 Numbered Judicial Services and Proposaling the following framework clauses in the Continuation. Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Halil Mazcıoğlu Mehmet Altay Hussein Flitz of Firstnur Denizli The first joke of Article 18 of Article 6-2004 has been changed as follows. The issues presented to the administrative court are considered immediate work and are carried out by a simple process of judgment. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0301par0442	The Commission participates in this will on the axis of sufficient numbers on the 45th and 87th Articles of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0302par0443	Sir, let them raise their hands and count them.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0300par0444	Since the commission has only participated in the motion, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Anyone? No. I'm reading the motive... no need for motive, no need for that. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0303par0448	Mr. President, I don't suppose you've made me read the reason?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0300par0449	Now that it's been accepted, the following items will be identified, but we'll continue to process through the existing materials. There's a motion on item 6 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 6th amendment of the 278th row bill we've been discussing. We move and propose the addition of the unmovable declaration to the article after its declaration. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Mahmut Tanal Ömer Suha Aldan
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0304par0457	You didn't make me read the reason, the reason.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0305par0458	Mr. President, have you opened the item that was just added to the debate?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0300par0459	I asked him, sir. He didn't ask for a word, so...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0306par0460	But you didn't open it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0300par0461	I did.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0307par0462	Sir, we're starting to see each other. You're going to say, "There's no talking." You can't say that.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0300par0463	No, no. Now, look, he's on the books, you'll see.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0308par0464	Sir, there's a question-answer.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0300par0465	I said it was only accepted by the commission. ▪ We are starting interviews. Anybody want a word? I said.. No one came out, I voted on it, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0309par0466	Question-answer...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0310par0467	I take it you haven't moved to the QA, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0300par0468	No one's been in the system, no one's asking. You can see it in the transcripts. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion on Article 6?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0311par0470	We don't care, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0300par0471	Does the government agree, sir?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0312par0472	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0300par0473	Who will speak in the Republican People's Party motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0313par0474	Mr. Ahmet Toptaş.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0300par0475	Mr. Topstone, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0314par0477	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to explain my views on the bill, which is known as the 3rd judicial package, which the Supreme Assembly is discussing with the number of 278 rows. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear friends, before we go into the package, I'd like to express my discomfort over something my friends have just said -- Mr. Justice Minister is here. Mr. Minister of Justice has made a statement regarding the closed courts, while in today and days before, the decision to close them according to objective criteria has been made, but they have announced that 44 of the 146 places that have been closed on their objection have been reopened. So, by what objective criteria did you reopen one third of the places you closed a week apart? None of the criteria the Minister says are credible to me. For example, the Ihsecond Court has been closed in Afyon. This is a town in the middle of the valley known as the Frig Valley, and it has very large towns. Opium's connected to the center, and it's 30 miles from the opium center. It's already restricted by the laws you impose on the citizen's freedom of rights. Even though you have restricted the right to sue the poor who have no chance of depositing money, you will come to the Afyon centre 50 kilometers away from here, where you will sue, where the expedition from here will go to explore 50 kilometers ahead... this is an inoperable system. Therefore, Mr. Secretary, you can't tell us a fair measure of closing the Ihsecond. Again, there are large towns of Sultandağı, which we had just bought in cherry yesterday, which is branded "Tadikiί, which is 30 per cent of Turkey's cherry exports are covered by this district. He'll come 50 kilometers from here to the nearest precinct, and he'll look for his rights here. So people in over 20,000 populations will come looking for rights 50 kilometers away. It means nothing more than obstructing freedom of rights. Dear friends, today's bill is called the activation of judicial services. You can speed up the trial, you can activate it, but if the judge doesn't distribute justice, act as fast as you want, it won't do any good. Justice has never been considered or taken into account in all of the AKP's practices so far. How can I make my own practices easier by doing what quickly? But when the work turned around and turned into a boomerang, it started again with a new acceleration, with a new activation. Dear friends, we've been reading in the papers for days how much the Justice and Development Party has to do with justice. Now, there was talk of a third judicial package, and it came to us. However, the President of the special authorities has complained, the Prime Minister has complained, the Minister of Justice has complained, all citizens have already complained, but the talks that remove or convert these articles are unfortunately not held in the Ministry of Justice, these talks are held in front of Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay. The Ministry of Justice, the Justice Commission are unaware of these negotiations. Tomorrow, perhaps as a motion, the AKP lawmakers have no idea what's coming. We're learning that from semi-friendly media. So you're reforming justice in a country, you're taking down or converting a Gabrielut court in a country called special authority courts, but the lawmakers don't know it, even the ruling lawmakers don't know it, but we're learning from leaked media groups. It's disrespectful to the House; it's disrespectful to the national will. Bring it in, let's discuss it here; let's set up more mature, positive, more justice-launching, more general principles of the law; if they have problems, let's solve them together, let's turn them into justice-distributing institutions. You're not doing this, you're bringing in a law, you're closing the courts a week later, you're facing Parliament with new challenges. Please, to work together to create a mechanism that distributes justice, not by smuggling these from representatives of the national will... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...I call on you to find a solution under the roof of the military and to create courts that will distribute fairer justice. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0315par0487	Thank you, Mr. Topstone. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 7 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 7th draft of the 277th row of the law we've discussed. We submit and propose the addition of the adjudication of the application of the non-responsible. Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Omar Suha Aldan Attila Kart Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0316par0498	It doesn't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0315par0499	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0317par0500	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0315par0501	Here you go, Mr. Card.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0318par0503	Mr. President, members of the law, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 7 of the first chapter of Bill 278. I hereby salute the General Assembly. My dear friends, in this arrangement brought here, we see that a few fundamental laws have been made, and changes have been made. Before expressing my assessments of these changes, my findings, yesterday, the Supreme Court 11. I'd like to share with you a painting we've seen and observed at the Department of Corrections. Yesterday, Supreme Court 11. We've all watched, together, an exemplary, embarrassing case in the criminal department, where Zahid Akman and his co-conspirator, his suspect, and three prosecutors investigating the Lighthouse corruption. Those in their position there were people with a number of concrete evidence that they were protected by government influence, with the influence of the government, with the influence of the government, and they were protected at the highest level by the government; they were brought to special and exceptional tasks in public administration, the RTÜK, the higher boards. In fact, we were looking at the core of the issues of the judiciary that we discussed today, and we were looking at it, ironically, ironically. What was that? At the end of nine years, during the tenth year, during the Justice and Development Party's rule, we saw the sad picture, the dramatic picture, where the judgment came and brought in. It's a picture of people who are corrupt, who are corrupt, who are corrupt, who are corrupt, who are corrupt, who are corrupt on the rights of charity money -- who have cases of corruption, who are accused by prosecutors who question them. This is the picture where the judicial mechanism, the justice mechanism, came from this period of political power, the photograph, the essence of that photograph. Speaking of which, I'd like to put it this way. Dear lawmakers, the economic and social facts of these arrangements, which are brought in with this bill, are actually required to recap, once again, to reassess. The common feature in all regulations related to executive bankruptcy is that you see the economy of Turkey shrinking, it shrinks, people's revenues shrink in real terms. You see a picture like this, where basic expenses, basic needs, and material possessions are under foreclosure and threat, and it's getting narrower and narrower. It's not worth the property, it's not worth the property. Movers lose their value; even in the 60 percent, they can't find buyers, so they need to reduce that rate to 50 percent. Even in the 60 percent, non-registered capital and non-registered construction are no longer a profitable business. It's the power that makes it possible for people who are desperate and doomed to close their property cheaply, to create this mechanism by the power of power. Power becomes the instrument of unfair gain relationships, making off-the-books legal. The bill, in fact, is a painting that demonstrates the inability of this understanding of governance and confesses it. So I would like to add that another aspect of this bill is that it is not possible for corrupters and separatists to establish justice, in a sense it is a confession of its precious MPs. With these evaluations, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0319par0512	Thank you, Mr. Card.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0320par0513	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0319par0514	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... There's a disagreement between clerks, electronics...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0321par0517	I mean, what kind of disagreement is there, Mr. Clerk? Oh, my God! I mean, is that ever gonna happen?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0322par0518	You're here till morning, and we're here.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0319par0519	We'll do it electronically in two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. Now, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the matter is accepted. There's a motion on Article 8 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in session with the 8th Amendment of the 278th row. We propose and propose the release of the document's tax ID number from the text after the first draft of the document's identity code. Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Omar Suha Aldan Attila Kart Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0323par0531	He doesn't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0319par0532	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0324par0533	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0319par0534	Who's gonna talk? Mr. Card, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0325par0537	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, once again, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a promise to discuss the motion given by us on the 8th Amendment. I salute the General Assembly again. My dear friends, the common goal of these proposals has always been to establish effective and fair trial. We need to see this: There are real injuries to the legal system in Turkey. It's not just today's problem. It's not a problem that comes out of nowhere today. It's a long time ago, but you have to admit that the 1961 Constitution had taken a serious distance to ensure the independence of the judiciary in this sense, to maintain the rule of law, to make serious legal and constitutional arrangements. But with the influence of various factors and elements, and later, as a result of the process leading up to the 1980 conflict, the 61 Constitution has been wiped out, and there has been a period leading up to the conflict. The main feature of the 1982 Constitution, which continued in this process, was the 1982 Constitution, which built a structure that was bureaucratising the judiciary and the judge. In the period beginning with the Justice and Development Party, this period of bureaucratisation has turned directly into the construction of party officials and community officials over the past ten years. This structure was dominated not only by bureaucratic structure but also by the judiciary. That's why you have to see it in these dimensions. Look, in a moment, we're going to be sharing all of this with concrete examples, concrete documents, concrete documents that we can't get answers from. With the Justice and Development Party's rulings in Turkey, a period of organisation, based on direct power and community reference, has now ruled out merit and success from the taking of judges. Together with this power, we face the reality of Turkey, with its economy, politics and political methods, with reform programmes in the judiciary and law enforcement, with the construction of employment, with its unregistered governance and not under its own free will. Look, in an unregistered place, in a structure, in a government that can't use its own free will, we need to see this: there's no law, there's no justice, there's no social peace, there's no protection of social and national interests. Hamasset becomes -- just like in Turkey today -- demagoji, doodles, hate speech. Dear MPs, the current power, it must be acknowledged that Turkey has always claimed to take over the state, not to rule it. Unfortunately, this is the reality of Turkey. Its claim to take over the state and its purpose is to take over Turkey for more than a decade. You're taking over the government, you're running it on your own. No, you don't run it of your own volition. That's where the problem is, that's where the problem is. That's where it comes from. That's what's sad, that's what's dramatic. Look, it's the understanding that you don't use your own free will, that those who exercise judgment in society, who use judgmental authority, who use judgmental authority, are trying to exercise judgment in a word of hate, a word of hostility, a word of revenge, directly dependent on power. What happens after that? There's a dissolution in the judiciary. In the judiciary, we see a series of revenge processes, a series of feudal processes, which have raised one another. This structure brings with it a vicious cycle. There's no justice coming out of this structure, there's no social peace coming out of it, precious MPs. Please have some judgment on your conscience, question them a little. This bill, at least for the benefit of this interrogation, I'm considering it, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0326par0550	Thank you, Mr. Card. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 8th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 9 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 9th draft of the 278 rows of the bill we're discussing. The addition of the sum of the declaration shall be specified after the notice on the second draft of the clause,, and we propose the removal and removal of the decimal between the words, or collateral. Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Omar Suha Aldan Attila Kart Does Mr. Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0327par0561	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0326par0562	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0328par0563	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0329par0564	Mr. Attila Card...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0326par0565	Mr. Card, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0330par0567	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, once again I salute the General Assembly. My dear friends, in my evaluations of the 7th and 8th article, I used very, perhaps harsh expressions, strong expressions. I know very well that you're considering these things in this way, but I'm actually doing these statements, these evaluations, and of course I'm doing these evaluations based on nine years, ten years of experience, concrete events. You know what? We're taking a pass from a lawyer to a judge. We've been telling this for a month, we've been telling it here, we've been asking questions, we've been telling it to the press conferences, but it's just that the Minister of Justice hasn't made a sound. Speaking of which here today, let's say it again, once again, let's ask you directly, maybe we'll find a challenge in the name of the dignity of justice. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, sir, there's gonna be a court of special authority. Where are those days? I wish we could see them. Unfortunately, in this understanding of management, private court courts don't end, private jurisdictional courts work periodically, one staff leaves, another staff comes in. An example? What are you doing? You're taking a pass from the lawyer to the judge's office, the results are announced on May 30th; 15 days ago, information drops to the websites, the first one is reportedly named, and the names of the people who will win the exam are reported. We, here, at the General Assembly and press conferences, mentioned their names, husband and wife relationships, and gave you around 40 names, Mr. Secretary. My dear friends, there is A of the 1st. K. It's obvious, who's the second? He's not enough, sir, and since his wife is a lawyer, he must be the 2nd. You know how many people are like that? There are 10 of us, my dear friends we've identified. So, you're looking, not just between the husband and wife, but, sir, it turns out that the ruling was successful in the trials, as well as in Merzifon, Kahramanmarash, Çorum. Fifteen days ago, 15 days ago, 15 days before the results of the exam were announced by the Justice Department, it was announced who was going to win with what score! Then we rise, sir, as we have done in the past nine years, as we have done in the past ten years, as we have been in the theatre of judicial reform, justice reform. Is there a credible side to this, dear lawmakers? I mean, get out there, at least in the name of the government's seriousness, in the name of the state's responsibility, say something in the name of the people's respect, bring some explanation. We name them there, we give them an office address, can there be an explanation? Sir, you're sinking. Look, it's a really heartbreaking painting. And they all got 40 points from previous exams, 45 points, 50 points, but so what? They all scored 80, 85, 90 points on this test. These people are asked: "How did you succeed? How did you succeed?" Sir, questions came out from the places where we worked. Involuntary, irresponsible answers, such as... E, of course, 271 people here, in this way, winning the test, my dear friends, 271 people.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0331par0577	You've put 5,000 people on trial before.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0330par0578	Look, my dear Congressman, let's discuss the account for thirty years, shall we? Let's talk about that, too, Mr. Congressman. Would you answer me that? Doesn't that make you feel guilty? Doesn't that make you feel bad?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0331par0580	You're lying!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0330par0581	I'm not lying. I've been telling you this for a month now, but your consciences are so callous, you don't answer. There he is, the Minister of Justice, unable to answer. He's standing right here! You can't answer.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0331par0582	Tell me about Industrial Holdings!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0330par0583	What cheap ways you take.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0332par0584	In a place where the Deputy Prime Minister says there are illegal and illegal operations...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0330par0585	Look, you're showing how insensitive you are, how far away you are from the sense of parliamentary responsibility. Look, you admit it. What a sad picture this is. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I give you names, office names...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0333par0588	Thank you, Mr. Card.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0334par0589	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0330par0590	And you still stoop to defense based on demagogues, abuses, 30 years ago. In Turkey, the misfortune of AKP power is already tied here.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0335par0591	Demagoji, don't!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0330par0592	That's what's causing us to be depressed and anxious at this point, my dear friends. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0336par0595	Mr. Card, thank you. The Minister of Justice would like word for a two-minute statement, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0337par0598	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, Mr. Kart has voiced from the bench that the trials regarding transition from the profession of attorney to the profession of prosecutors are the examinations conducted by the President of the SNS.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0338par0599	That's the problem.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0337par0600	To determine the results of these tests, to explain them, is entirely PTSD. The Department of Justice doesn't have the slightest authority here. After the allegations have been brought up, the CPS President examines these allegations. If any evidence of these allegations is found, it will be reported to our side, and it will be carried out. However, many of the statements expressed by Mr. Kart (Mr. Kart) on this stand or in the press conference hall are, unfortunately, unsteady statements.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0339par0601	What about the previous exams, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0337par0602	Mr. Kart has recently made statements that there have been frauds in the National Lottery raffles. Again and again, from this bench, the Ministry of Justice has raised allegations that foreign judges, agents, were working, and questions have been submitted. Despite each of these questions being written and verbally answered, over and over again, these slanderous allegations...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0340par0603	It's not a bet, it's a fact!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0337par0604	...he would not hesitate to speak from this bench. So I'd like to point out that claims about the exam are being examined by the SNS. If there's any evidence of that, it'll be carried out.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0341par0605	What did you do to the replicators?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0342par0606	Who gave you the questions?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0337par0607	However, we have no means to leave work and respond to Mr. Kart. For Mr. Kart said such slanders every day. I offer it with respect.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0342par0610	That's your job, what else are you doing? Your work, your justice...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0343par0611	Mr. Secretary, you might as well have saved 13 people.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0344par0612	Congressmans, I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will look for a sufficient number of decisions. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... There's been another disagreement between the clerks, sir. We'll vote with the electronic device.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0345par0615	Mr. President, is there a disagreement between the clerks?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0344par0616	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0345par0617	Don't they ever get along?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0344par0618	It happens when they deal.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0345par0619	I've never seen it before.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0344par0620	If you didn't see it, it didn't happen. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. Now I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 9th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 10 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 10th draft of the 278 rows of the bill we're negotiating. In the matter, we propose and submit the addition of the statement that will be removed after the declaration of the case. Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Omar Suha Aldan Attila Kart Mr. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0346par0632	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0344par0633	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0347par0634	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0344par0635	Mr. Attila Card, please, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0348par0637	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the General Assembly again. The Minister asked some questions - Mr. Attorney General - but for some reason he left the hall immediately. I'm hoping that another Minister will follow these issues with the necessary sensitivity, which will explain these issues, because the Minister is a minister who is no stranger to those issues. What things? Changes programmes with the United States have been made in the judiciary by judges and prosecutors to change with the United States. That's what we're asking Mr. Minister of Justice, Mr. Prime Minister. We've been asking for years, and we say, "Who are the Susanne Haydens who have served in the Ministry of Justice since 2006?" We've been calling it the illegal headquarters since 2005, 2006. We're asking the Home Secretary. Over 3,000 people. What does it say, Minister of Interior of the Republic of Turkey? The Minister of Interior of the Republic of Turkey says I don't know either. Doesn't that answer bother you, dear lawmakers? Doesn't that answer bother you, my dear friends? From here, we say: since when do 882 judges and prosecutors go to America, what work does the change program do under the name. Why just America, why not another country? Why has this process been going on since 2005-2006?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0349par0640	I thought we weren't discussing the past!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0348par0641	We ask this by combining this with other concrete events, other concrete findings, the Republic of Turkey is not responding, it's being published on the list of Documents. Do you know where the answer comes from? Where does the answer come from? The answer comes from the United States Embassy! The US Embassy is sending invitations to members of the Constitutional Compromise Commission, and on June 14th, we invite you to the reception in honor of judges and prosecutors serving under the amendment programme between Turkey and the United States. The U.S. responds, why don't you answer, why don't you answer, why can't you? Is there something you want to hide, an illegal structure, a structure you can't explain, a situation you can't account for? Why can't you answer? Shouldn't we be answering these, dear lawmakers? Is it only our responsibility to be curious about the answers? It's your responsibility, isn't it? Aren't you a congressman? Look, Mr. Attorney General, we don't talk indiscriminately when we say "Illegal headquarters." There are mechanisms that are effective in arrests, evacuations, except for judges and prosecutors. We're describing these with concrete examples, and we say, "There's a journalist named Sea Lightning. As of the second month, the prosecutors have submitted an evacuation debate on Deniz Yıldırım, sir, and the court rejects 2/1. Maybe it's a court order, we call it above our heads. We call it the judgment of the court. Well, is it possible that there's someone else in that document besides the judge and the prosecutor, that he's got an opinion, that he's entitled to that kind of thing, dear lawmakers? Doesn't that bother you?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0350par0643	It bothers me if there is.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0348par0644	We presented his document, my dear friends. We've submitted this document, but we're not getting any answers, my dear friends, and we're not getting any answers. Who are we going to ask?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0351par0645	Ask the D.A.'s office.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0348par0646	Shouldn't you be asking that question, following it? But you're not asking, you're making it dark. That's the problem. You don't realize that you have a mission to oversee what power says, what power does, that's the problem. You don't realize you have that responsibility. Unfortunately, this is the main problem before democracy and law in Turkey. You're just doing finger democracy here, in the words of Mr. Pestilence.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0352par0648	We don't have a cognitive problem.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0348par0649	Here, that's the problem in Turkey, that's the main problem in democracy. No matter what package you bring in in the face of this fundamental problem, it is unfortunately impossible to establish justice. That's the truth of Turkey, precious MPs. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0353par0652	Mr. Card, thank you, sir. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 10th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 11 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 11th draft of the 278 rows of the bill we're discussing. By removing the clause from the text of the substance, we propose and provide the addition of the declaration. Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Ömer Suha Aldan Ali Riza Özturk Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0354par0663	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0353par0664	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0355par0665	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0353par0666	Who will speak, sir?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0356par0667	Ali Riza Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0353par0668	Mr. Ozturk, have them come in.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0357par0670	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Vice President Ahmet Aydın of the Justice and Development Party Party has accused those who oppose their policies in the interest of the country and the nation as they speak. He accused the Justice and Development Party's policies of treason against their laws and proposals. If, indeed, treason, as Mr. Ahmet Aydın has seen, as he has judged, it is against the law proposals brought by the Justice and Development Party, the government's bill or policies, that I continue to commit treason as Ali Riza Ozturk, as Ali Riza Özturk, I will do more. Because my constituents have sent me here to stand against the pressures, persecution and policies of the Justice and Development Party in this country. I can't betray my voters who voted for me. My dear friends, again, a friend of ours said this about September 12th, Mr. Ahmet Aydın said that you said that September 12th cannot be tried, that we will judge, that we will judge.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0358par0673	Don't be jealous.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0357par0674	It's a bad way to behave, it's a bad way to be a lawyer because it's not the government's job and it's not the government's, it's not the government's, it's the judiciary's. There is a principle of separation of forces in the Constitution. Besides, you guys have nothing to be jealous of, so what should I be jealous of? You're jealous of yourself. So even this shows that mentality. At that time, when the Supreme Court and Prosecutor's Office Law was discussed, we had an argument with Mr. Justice Minister Sadullah Ergin, and he said -- it's in the transcripts of the Parliament -- Mr. Ergin, we'll never ask for an account from September 12 during the referendum. He said. We've had a lot of tough arguments here, we've read about it on the newspaper page, they're in the report. In addition, my dear friends, we have proposed and proposed that the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey shall be replaced in the following manner -- Ali Reza Özturk and his friends -- under the 25th Amendment clause of the Constitution concerning the amendment to some Articles of the Constitution in which the bill is being discussed. Our proposal is this: "The temporary 15th article has been changed in the following way. " In accordance with Article 311th and 312th Articles of the Turkish Penal Code, Article 5271 shall be carried out by investigations by Article 2571 of the Law on the Constitution and the members of the National Security Council, which is stated in the Law on the National Security Council No 2356, under the Articles 3137, Article 311 and 312." So I made it very clear that at that time, I proposed a verdict on the open trial of all those who were there until the President, members of this Council, and the Presidential Court were formed, but this was rejected by AKP votes. I'm sorry for your loss. We will see together, God willing, where the consequences of the trial now will be for Tahsin Şahinkaya, and for the judgment of Kenan Universe. So, at the time, in this House, the AKP was rejected by the vote. My dear friends, I wish these changes were in the best interest of our people, if only they could meet the expectations of society. If it had been, you wouldn't have brought changes in a row. More than 30 percent of this 345-point penal code has been changed during the crawl period. This clearly shows the lack of carefulness of law enforcement. In this country, it is the most concrete example of obstruction of the judiciary due to these adaptations, and this carelessness in both the Penal Code and the Penal Code has blocked the judiciary. Just the other day in Parliament, you know, the Turkish Trade Law that didn't take effect had to be changed again. What did we say at that time -- our President of the Justice Commission didn't die here; our members didn't die here -- what did we say? You can bring it back in less than a year. We said it and you brought it. My dear friends, if you go with that understanding, you will not be able to enlist. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0359par0684	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 12 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 12th draft of the 278 rows of the bill we're negotiating. By removing the clause from the text of the substance, we propose and provide the addition of the declaration. Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Ömer Suha Aldan Does Mr. Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0360par0695	We're putting it to high esteem, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0359par0696	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0361par0697	We agree.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0362par0698	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0359par0699	I'm reading the reason: It's recommended that matter be more understandable. I submit to you the commission's recommendation, which the government has agreed to: those who have agreed... the motion has been accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0363par0703	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0359par0704	I submit the 12th article to your votes in accordance with the motion adopted...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0363par0705	Mr. President, those who agree... those who refuse...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0359par0706	Well, since almost everyone agreed, maybe... with the Alliance, it means... I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... are accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0363par0708	Those who don't agree... Mr. President, you're always asking those who agree, you're pressuring the Parliament at the point of acceptance.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0359par0710	There is a motion in Article 13 that I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 13th draft of the 278 rows of the bill we're discussing. By removing the clause from the text of the substance, we propose and provide the addition of the declaration. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Mahmut Tanal Bedii Süheyl Batum Omar Suha Aldan Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0364par0718	We appreciate it, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0359par0719	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0365par0720	We agree.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0366par0721	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0359par0722	I'm reading the reason: It's recommended that matter be more understandable.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0367par0725	Mr. President, if he gets a copy of this, the Commission will be dealt with in no time.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0359par0726	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted on Article 13, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 14 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 14th draft of the 278th row of the bill we've discussed. By removing the clause from the text of the substance, we propose and provide the addition of the declaration. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Mahmut Tanal Tutor Köse Ömer Süha Aldan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0368par0736	We'll leave it to the General Assembly's discretion, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0359par0737	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0369par0738	We agree.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0370par0739	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0359par0740	I'm reading the reason: It's recommended that matter be more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 15 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 15th draft of the 278th row bill we've discussed. Article 3. If there is more than one item used for the same purpose, one of them is that we offer and propose that the declaration be removed from the text of matter. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Mahmut Tanal Ömer Suha Aldan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0371par0753	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0359par0754	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0372par0755	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0373par0756	Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0359par0757	Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0374par0759	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I was glad that our motions would be accepted in a row, so we're hoping that the others would be accepted. Today, I am taking a stand on the 15th article. In 15 articles, there are restrictions on impregnableness. One of these restrictions is an important limitation. There are certain expectations of public opinion regarding the house foreclosures, but I'm observing that there's been a typo here. This is also the error of spelling: The article 15 is that if there is more than one object used for the same purpose in the same purpose, then one of these can't be seized because if we look at Article 82: The following things can't be harvested if there are two items in one house, so if there are two items of the same property, then one of them can be confiscated. Well, there's only one item in one house, so what? There's a typo in this article, dear friends. This spelling error needs to be corrected first. As far as I'm concerned, what you're trying to do is, if there's only one item in a house, it's not to be confiscated, it's to be said that if there's more than one object, it's to be said that it's to be foreclosure, but that can sometimes lead to wrong practices. How can it lead to wrong practices? You go to a very high-end house, there's one of every item, but it's really a luxury, so somehow some stuff might have to be confiscated. What has been happening so far, according to the Law on Institution and Bankruption, and what has been done in practice? When we went home, if the foreclosure wasn't paying for the sale and the transportation costs that day, if there was an old chair, if there was an old refrigerator, if there was a washing machine, the executives wouldn't have confiscated them, because they couldn't afford to sell them. So this app's out of the question, guys? Why do we feel the need to change such an application? And in the same way, there's this stuff here. In the last part, the last joke says: ▪ The bailiff assesses whether the demand for the demand for the rights of the property or the rights of the property is necessary and decides whether to accept or reject the request. With such authority and so far this rule has been well enforced by the executive managers, I think that such a limitation can sometimes be at the expense of the creditors, sometimes the debtor, and there's also a typo. By the admission of our motion, we demand the removal of one of these terms in Article 15, if that clause, that symbol, the object used for the same purpose, is more than one. Besides, friends, I mean, there are a few other very important arrangements. We've discussed them in the Commission, but unfortunately our debates on the commission have not been reflected in the article text. There's an arrangement in the Bankruptcy Act about the sending of payment orders and the writing of payment orders. Here, and in the law, this framework is arranged with articles 9, 32 and 35. What do we say? We recommend that the executive manager's bank account number be written in the payment order. When this is written, go to the debtor and pay him that account number. When you say, "It's always happened to us," he'll pay the debt, but he doesn't know the members. Some bank lawyers, along with members of this, write down the sum, and the debtor is aware of it. But no matter how much we warn you in the text of matter, we haven't been able to make an adequate adjustment on the matter, so the actual debt, along with all of its members, must also be written down, so that the debtor can pay the bank account number. When we say, "Go to the debtor, pay the bank account number." Only if he pays what he's going to get, the creditors and the lawyer friends are reprocessing, that's when the debtor thinks he's being asked to double the money, and that's when there's a lot of stuff going on, a lot of problems. We've been through this. That's one of the reasons a lot of our lawyer friends were attacked. So, please, we have motions in this framework, in Articles 9, 32 and 35, and we want to make sure that the amount of debt is specified in detail and the amount of debt is written in total debt is taken seriously, because we think it will solve a lot of problems in the application. In addition, the frame is now being removed from the debtor's account of the property held by the third person in the 16th article, while the property held by the third person is being searched for the owner of the debtor in the past. The removal of the creditor's guardianship, friends, usually in the hands of the third party, you know, in business times or in other times or in bad intentions...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0375par0769	Mr. Yilmaz, thank you very much, sir, your time is up.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0374par0770	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0375par0771	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 15th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 16th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 16th draft of the 278th row bill we've discussed. Article 2. We offer and propose the addition of the "required property" and "required property" to the joke. Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Ömer Süha Aldan Gürkut Acar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the provision of the Article 88 of Law 2004, which is included in Article 88 of Article 7 of the Law, which is envisioned to be replaced by Article 16 in the framework of the Charter No. 2004, on the purpose of Act 278, in the purpose of Activising Numbers of Judicial Services, and the Prohibition Against Crimes Against Press Publishing Road. Mahir Ünal Mehmet Doğan Kubat Durdu Mehmet Kastal Yusuf Başer İdris Şahin Hüseyin Fiz Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0376par0787	We commend you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0375par0788	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0377par0789	We agree.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0375par0790	I'm reading the reason: The motion was made to remove the "deposed" declaration from the substance text, as the regulations for the delivery of vehicles captured by law enforcement forces to the nearest executive directorate in three workdays at the latest could cause problems. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 16th draft of the 278th row bill we've discussed. Article 2. We propose and propose the addition of the "responsibility of the recipient and" to the joke, after the notice of the mover's goods being seized. Ali Ihsan Kokturk (Zonguldak) and his friends Does Mr. Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0378par0799	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0375par0800	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0379par0801	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0375par0802	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0380par0803	Mr. Gürkut Acar...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0375par0804	Mr. Acar, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0381par0805	Mr. President, dear friends, I have made a pledge on the 16th Amendment. We don't really want a big change in this stuff. We usually agree with the whole thing. Dear friends, I would like to take this opportunity to convey to you some thoughts of justice. Our memory is weak, our social memory is weak, and I want to remind you of the long-standing conflict between the judiciary and the AKP and the power. For many years, the AKP ruling has blocked the judiciary. He has declared judgment from the day he arrived to today. I don't want to say here what the Prime Minister and many of the AKP's MPs have said to the judiciary over the years, they have attacked with harsh words. For years, the judgment has been ground to floor, and in recent years, they have become more and more satisfied. Dear friends, if you remember, 23 members of the 250-member Supreme Court had been evacuated, 9 members of the 96-member State Department had been evacuated. So even though the 10 per cent of the Supreme Court and the State Department were empty, and the law requires that they choose within two months, you did not make this choice as a power, and the Justice Minister of Judges and Prosecutors did not raise the Supreme Council for months. Nine months passed, and nine months later, the Supreme Court chief got up and made a statement, saying: "The files are piling up, the judiciary is obstructed." When I lifted up all the public at the scene of the explosion, the transfers were made, but the files were collected. Now, Mr. Secretary tells us that these files have been melted, but we're seeing a product of those past works by the AKP's Authority, which has caused these files to accumulate, to block the judiciary, my dear friends. And now we're wondering why the AKP did it. The reason he did so in the past period was that the AKP wanted to put its own people in the Supreme Court and the State Department. And because they were not qualified, the administration was resisting, but the general policy of the AKP is this, my dear friends: You've always done the same thing in privatisations; you've broken it down, you've blocked it, and then you go back to the people, and you see that these institutions don't work, and you say, "Let's change them." As a matter of fact, in the referendum we went to after these obstructions, you made a judgmental program, hiding it behind 22 articles, and you succeeded, I congratulate you. And that's how we see their new app. You're dismissing three prosecutors of the Lighthouse case. There's a Justice Department list coming up, and there's a history book on how this list came up. I'll vote for him if the Ministry of Justice makes donkeys. Thus, a period of justice began. My dear friends, look, the book written by the President of the Democratic Judiciary Association and the Judge of Beypazari is history and stands there. My dear friends, not only that, but right now, with the Minister's statement, there are 270,000 files in the State Department. Friends, why do people apply to the State, why do they pay tuition, why do they leave? What does the court judge? It's a judicial body trying to make the illegal verbs of prosecutorial administration legal, but there are 270,000 files. It means that we've forced 270,000 people to apply here, there's a savings of 270,000 administrations in Turkey, which means that people are going to judge against it. My dear friends, believe me, the Justice and Development Party is going wrong, it's not going wrong. The main case is being sentenced to twenty-two years in prison while the case continues for the defence. The greatest punishment given to humans for defence has been given during the Justice and Development Party period. My dear friends, this is not going away. Injustice will destroy the AKP's power. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0382par0813	Thank you, Mr. Acar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes in accordance with the motion previously adopted: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 16th article has been accepted. There are two motions on the 17th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 17th draft of the 17th Amendment, which is currently in session, 278 rows. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Mahir Ünal Mehmet Doğan Kubat İdris Şahin Hilmi Bilgin İsmail Aydın M. Belma Row Yusuf Basher Salih Big Osman Boyraz Article 17-2004 has been changed in the following way in the third article of Article 89 of Article 89, with the phrase "40 per cent" in the form of "20 per cent." "The notice of the foreclosure is issued to the centre of a corporate or institutional branch, which includes the rights and debts of the debtor. The centre, where the foreclosure notice has been issued, is obliged to make a statement covering all branches or units.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0383par0829	Mr. President, Mr. Mahmut Tanal is also signed, sir, for the record.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0382par0830	Five readable, sir. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in session with the 17th Amendment in row 278. Adding the clause "in the form" of the clause from the text of matter and adding the phrase "to be" to Article 7 of Article 89 of the Law changed with the same clause in 2004. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. ▪ The notice of the foreclosure can be delivered to the corporate branch or to the office of the general manager, covering all branches. The directorate is obliged to respond in a manner that covers all branches where the notification has been reported." Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Ömer Suha Aldan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0384par0840	Mr. President, since it's more against the previous motion, does he have to be voted first? Don't make a mistake.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0382par0841	No, that's voteable, no problem at all. Do you agree?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0384par0843	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0382par0844	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0385par0845	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0386par0846	A motion of the same nature as the other motion, there are only word differences, so let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0382par0847	I'm reading the reason: It's recommended that matter be more understandable. And I'm okay. The change in the 89/7 joke has been suggested in terms of ease in the application. Because the amendment to Law 6183, which regulates the collection of state remittances, is in accordance with our proposal for amendments, while the ICI 89/7, in its current state, is only subject to the obligation of the departments. The state must also provide other citizens with the ease to pursue its own debts. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 17th draft of the 17th Amendment, which is currently in session, 278 rows. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Mahir Ünal (Heromanmarash), Mahmut Tanal (Istanbul) and his friends Article 17-2004 has been changed in the following way in the third article of Article 89 of Article 89, with the phrase "40 per cent" in the form of "20 per cent." "The notice of the foreclosure is issued to the centre of a corporate or institutional branch, which includes the rights and debts of the debtor. The centre, where the foreclosure notice has been issued, is obliged to make a statement covering all branches or units." Is the commission in?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0387par0859	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0382par0860	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0388par0861	We agree.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0382par0862	I'm reading the reason: The application aims to address problems stemming from correspondence and speed up the process of collecting the rights and debts of the creditors. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes in accordance with the motion accepted: those who accept... those who refuse... the 17th article has been accepted. There's a motion on Article 18 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're talking about the number 18 of the 278 rows of the bill. By removing the clause from the text of the substance, we propose and provide the addition of the declaration. Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Ömer Suha Aldan The commission?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0389par0875	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0382par0876	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0390par0877	We agree.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0382par0878	I'm reading the reason: It's recommended that matter be more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit to your votes in accordance with the motion adopted by Article 18: Those who accept... those who refuse... the 18th article has been accepted. There's a motion on Article 19 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 19th draft of the 278th row of the bill we're discussing. In the absence of the third person, the last sentence of the clause, and in the absence of the third person, the sentence of this joke is carried out. We offer and propose that the notice be removed from the article text. Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Ömer Suha Aldan Refik Eryılmaz Commission?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0391par0891	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0382par0892	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0392par0893	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0393par0894	Refik Eryılmaz.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0382par0895	Mr. Eryilmaz, Hatay. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0394par0898	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the content and purpose of almost all laws that have been referred to parliament on the matter of the judiciary so far, it seems that the goal is to evacuate the modern, modern legal system. As a result of the amendments to the Constitution with both the laws imposed on the judiciary and the referendum on September 12th, the judiciary is unfortunately under the influence and pressure of political power. The government is trying to eliminate anyone who is opposed to them, doesn't think as he does, and doesn't want to live like he does, by violating the state security courts, which are the product of the 1980 coup. These courts are special officials on his name. Their special task is to send everyone who opposes the AKP government to prison. In this scope, the Turkish army is being re-designed and redesigned in accordance with the demands and expectations of Western imperial forces, while all other institutions of the republic are getting their share of the process. Turkey is experiencing a counter-revolutionary process. While all the gains of the Republic revolution have been reversed, the patriots who resist it are sent to Silivri with imaginary scenarios produced. Even lawmakers elected by the vote of about 1 million of our citizens have not survived this process of liquidation and destruction. The Prime Minister's attitude towards this lawlessness, which has not dropped the concept of the will of the nation, also demonstrates his and his government's respect for democracy and the will of the nation. The will of the nation cannot be left to the discretion of the three judges of the special duty court. This shame is the government's shame, who has no solution to it, who remains silent. In this process, the audience disrespects the people's will and violates the oath they made from this stand. Because we swore an oath from this stand that we would protect the sovereignty of the nation unconditionally and unconditionally. What happened? Were the prisoners able to get out? Unfortunately, the sovereignty of the nation has been abandoned to the initiative and discretion of special service courts regardless of conditions. The arrest is a precaution and the grounds for the arrest are clearly set up in the law. No public official, including the judges, can take advantage of the law's discretion. Eight of our friends elected MPs, the suspicion of escape, the fact that the evidence has not been collected. For reasons such as this, it is unacceptable to be held prisoner in prison. For it cannot be left to a judge's discretion to keep a man who has secured the trust of 1 million citizens and elected MP in prison on suspicion that he may escape or obscure evidence. The prime minister and many other ministers and AKP MPs, particularly the president, say that the special-duty courts are not in accordance with the law, that they must be removed. In fact, they have exceeded their limits, and they have been made to enjoy themselves, and they have been subjected to severe criticism, as they imagine God to be. These severe criticisms have made all the decisions these courts have ever made, and all the decisions they will make after that, debatable. After all these criticisms and accusations, if these courts continue to function, the trust of our people in the judiciary and the state will be deeply undermined. Therefore, these courts must be closed immediately and all intellectuals and patriots arrested by these courts must be released immediately. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0395par0907	Thank you, Mr. Eryilmaz. I submit the motion on Article 19 to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 19 is accepted. There are two motions on Article 20 of the same nature. I'm going to process them together, make a separate commitment to the motion makers, or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in the middle of a bill of 278 rows 20. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Mahmut Tanal Ömer Süha Aldan Sezgin Tanıkulu To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 20 of the 278th Amendment be removed from the draft text. 30.06.2012 Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat Secret S. Leader İbrahim Rider Fair Wolf Nazmi Gür Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0396par0925	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0395par0926	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0397par0927	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0395par0928	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0398par0929	Mr. Ibrahim Rider.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0395par0930	Ibrahim Binci, Şanlıurfa. Here you go, Mr. Rider.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0399par0932	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on Article 20 of Law Proposal 278. I salute your high council. Dear MPs, I would like to briefly share with you the story of a female student at the University of Şanlıurfa Harran, where the AKP Powers, who cannot tolerate a single voice, yearns and takes steps to express the point where the police state has arrived. That's the story of a young girl who's a student at the University of Harran. Our daughter Nofa, a student of the History Department, resides in a student dorm at the Loan and Homes Association. The noise of the room next door to the room he shared with his friends, especially during exams, has no effect on the students in the room and in the relevant areas, and eventually, there is a debate between the two rooms at the beginning of June. The debate soon turns into a fight, and Nofa is hospitalized for a nervous breakdown. Some time after the incident of the security guards in the dorm, however, the TEM police arrive at the student dorm. Police Officer Yücel Demirhan, who is in charge of the unit, is in the building where the girls are staying and is in the garden for students to say, "I'm going to divide whoever's here." "and arrests girls who are involved in a fight. The police who later went to the hospital are taking Nofa into custody and taking her to the police station. The testimony of the detained schoolgirls was taken by offering tea, while for some reason, Nofa and her roommate, who were taken to the police station as if they had been kidnapped from the hospital, were kept on their feet for hours. On the other hand, the girls who were testified were left alone outside their dorm door at four o'clock in the morning, but Nofa and her roommate were kept waiting outside the police station after their testimony was completed at five o'clock in the morning. An administrative investigation has been launched by the dorm where he is staying, and Nofa is forced to leave the dorm and take refuge in her friend's home in order to avoid losing her scholarship. Dear lawmakers, not only is this happening to Nofa. On 8/6/2012, while traveling with his girlfriend at the Urban City Mall, Tem branch police are being beaten and again taken into custody by Yücel Demirhan. The police, Yücel Demirhan, who is walking around in civilian clothes with his wife and child in the same shopping centre, say that you will go to Nofa, one of the two girls he met by chance, to Karakola by pulling his arm first. He says, "You have testimony." He tries to head-butt. Even if he tried to explain that he had not received any written invitations to testify, that if he was invited, he would go to the police station and testify without delay. Yücel Demirhan, who can't pick up speed, hits the girl's chest with a fist in front of dozens of people. I'm a cop, they're terrorists. He's trying to disband the crowd. Dear MPs, I'm a police officer, I'm a terrorist. What kind of mood was he in when he said that? This mentality believes that she can beat the other girl, who she has inscribed as a terrorist, in front of dozens of people, and is also in charge of it. It is not enough that Dilshat Aktaş broke his leg in the heart of the capital, but it is his duty to throw stones into the hands of paramilitary forces he invited into the area of the wire. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This mentality considers it a duty to beat Ahmet Kocaf to death in Istanbul. This mentality, Hatice Idin, İbrahim We are pleased, Musa Mountain, Mehmet Uytun, Hadji Rich, Kazım Candy, Metin Lokumcu and Cayan Birben are charged with killing with gas.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0400par0939	Mr. Rider...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0399par0940	With these feelings, I salute the High Council again. I call the High Council to duty. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0400par0943	Thank you, Mr. Rider. Sezgin Tanrıkulu, İstanbul MP on the other motion. Dear Godkulu, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0401par0947	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I'm going to talk to the special authorities about the courts, not the 20th article. The reasons for that offer are also valid. I'd like to read to you: the task and jurisdiction of the existing DGM and its current criminal courts, which have been established to protect the democratic state of law, is exactly as well known as the special authorities will do to the state of democratic law. Special officials are severe criminal courts and are thought to be established, with exceptions outside the judicial system as a quality. Exceptional courts are judicial bodies that violate the principle of natural judges in a narrow sense, rights and guarantees under fair trial. The exceptional courts, which are expressed in terms of political bias or political bias, are primarily used as a struggle against political opponents, pressure, liquidation tool, and a defense, defence, laundering mechanism against state officials. In this regard, the state security courts have made judgments in our region and at the country level that have caused severe violations of the law, causing difficult and impossible judicial errors to be corrected. The consequences of the victims caused by these courts are still ongoing. The history of justice is full of inequality and judicial errors. An important part of this is based on DGM trials. In this case, the DGM has no purpose or function to protect the democratic state of law. Instead, the attempt to establish another court of the same quality reveals the intention of continuing the same mentality. After the DGMs have been shut down, it is also a deception against our people, not only against the process of the European Union, but the continuation of the same courts with different names, such as the special official criminal court. The sovereign state official, conservative trend, intends to maintain its presence in response to constitutional and legal changes with the special official criminal courts. As long as the extraordinary judgment mentality does not change, as it is now done, the problem is not solved, but it will be able to reveal a more dire situation, such as whether the practice of DGM will be carried out by other units of the judge. In this respect, DGMs must be removed, and the crimes held in the field of these courts must be looked at in the general court of justice, which is determined according to the natural judge's rule. Judges and prosecutors serving in the current criminal courts have the license and authority to prosecute the crimes held in the field of the DGM. We honor the public's knowledge and appreciation. The Diyarbakır Bar Association's press statement issued on 2 June 2004. That's when we made that statement. Now, you're putting the same thing in front of us in a different way. You will spread the extraordinary courts from 8 to 29. Dear friends, let us be courageous, and trust the judges of the criminal court in all Turkey. If we don't see enough in all Turkey to look at the crimes within the TCK, we'll dismiss these courts, dismiss the judges, but with a new arrangement, let's not spread the extraordinary courts throughout Turkey. Let's not make that mistake in eight years. We have the means, we have severe criminal courts all over Turkey, from Van. From Edirne to Edirne. These criminal courts can look at these crimes in a normal way. So let's not deceive ourselves or Turkey with a deception that court number two will look at court number three. Likewise, what we need to do is to remove these courts with one clause; we must do so. Now let's show the courage that this House didn't show eight years ago as a whole, we have this opportunity, the public is ready. So don't put another trick in front of us like it's another fact. Eight years later, we read another statement in this way, and we read it the same way. No one negotiated with us, and we don't know what you think. It'll come in the morning, but if you've got any ideas, let's talk with courage. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0402par0957	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature on matter: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 20th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 21: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and Add the following joke to Article 110 of Law 2004, which is envisioned to be replaced by Article 21 in the framework of the Bill of the Law on Responsibility of Cases and Punishments Against Misdeeds in Some Laws in the Purpose of Enabled 278 Numbered Judicial Services. Mahir Ünal Mehmet Doğan Kubat Durdu Mehmet Kastal Kemalettin Aydın Yusuf Başer İdris Şahin "The first joke is that the borrower who is responsible for the foreclosure is responsible for all expenses, such as foreclosure and protection." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 21st of the 278th row bill we've discussed. We propose and propose that the first joke of the article be removed from the draft text. Ali İhsan İktuk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Ömer Suha Aldan Ahmet Toptaş Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last motion we read?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0403par0975	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0402par0976	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0404par0977	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0402par0978	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0405par0979	Mr. Ahmet Toptaş.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0402par0980	Mr. Topstone, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0406par0982	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to draft number 278. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Dear friends, as I said in the short term of the morning, we ignore the problems of people who work in the judiciary, who work in the judiciary, who work hard. It is not possible to activate judicial services by ignoring them. Our fellow lawyers know, or our friends in court know, there are bailiffs in court. These are the ones who carry the most heavy burden of the courts, the physical burden. They're like servants of judges. If the judge's or the lawyer's desk hasn't been wiped off, they're responsible if a document is lost, they're responsible if no notice has been made, which means they're responsible for everything that's late, but their names are just bailiffs, nothing else, a class that everyone despises themselves in the courthouse. These people finish college, but there's no way they're going anywhere but the bailiff. We don't take kindly to the problems of these people that we have served in forensic services. Please, I urge our Minister of Justice to be sensitive about this. We're making changes in the Criminal Bankruption Act, and we're talking about resolving the problem in action, but business is blocked in the executive offices -- our fellow lawmen know, our friends know, our debtor friends know. Business is blocked because of the economic problems you've created, and there aren't enough staff to carry out the executions. Executive work is not working right now, either because of lack of staff or because there's a lot of work loads. Therefore, it is necessary to address the personnel problem of the executive offices, dear friends. Again, court courts have had serious problems with the problems of the clerks who have taken the burden of the court. As we benefit from the people we are serving, we need to remember that it is also our duty to take care of their problems and to address their problems. Again, there are death guards in the criminal execution institutions, and these are undocumented, dear friends. They've got huge problems, they've got seizures, they've got a lot of work problems, they've got really serious problems, but they've never been able to make anyone hear their voice. If we want judicial services to be activated, we have to take care of the problems of people who have seen them. I'd like to warn Mr. Attorney General about these matters. Dear friends, as we just said, you can activate judicial services. What do you do when you activate these? You can raid people's workplaces in the jurisdiction of the courts you've established, you can raid their homes, you can raid the office of a current attorney general in the morning, you can raid the office of an army commander, you can enter the cosmic room, you can raid the general's house, you can take him away for two years. What happens next? After that, the president of the MIT will be indicted on charges of criminal activity, and you'll start making laws overnight, and then you'll jump out. Look, Mr. Prime Minister, whatever the MIT Undersecretary says, when he's called to testify, I'm the one who gave him the order, so if you're going to take me. Why would the judgment help these people when it is necessary to help them? If he's guilty, if he's guilty, and there's evidence that he's guilty, is the judiciary tasked with helping the Prime Minister's wishes? The president is complaining, and I'm complaining. Since he's complaining now, I think there's going to be a change in this law today with a motion that we don't know about, which I don't think the Justice and Development Party MPs don't know about. That's no way to get justice, fellas. Everyone has to do their part on this. So when you're on your own, when the boomerang comes back to you, with one clause, with two clauses, you're going to transform, you're going to change, you're going to change, but when you're going to go on to other people, you're going to be looking for a prosecutor's office, and then you're not going to make a sound. There's no justice, there's no national will. If you want to fulfill the national will, let's discuss it together, mature it together, and get rid of these freaky courts together. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0407par0993	Thank you, Mr. Topstone.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0408par0994	The decision is sufficient, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0407par0995	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor, all those in denial. Yes, there's a difference of opinion again. We'll vote with the electronic device, sir. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and Add the following joke to Article 110 of Law 2004, which is envisioned to be replaced by Article 21 in the framework of the Bill of the Law on Responsibility of Cases and Punishments Against Misdeeds in Some Laws in the Purpose of Enabled 278 Numbered Judicial Services. Mahir Ünal (Heromarash) and his friends "The first joke is that the borrower who is responsible for the foreclosure is responsible for all expenses, such as foreclosure and protection." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0409par1007	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0407par1008	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0410par1009	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0411par1010	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0407par1011	I'm reading the reason: This motion has been made to prevent the execution pursuit from continuing, in order to ensure that the borrower, who caused the foreclosure, would be responsible for all expenses such as the foreclosure, and would be responsible for all expenses, such as its protection. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit to your votes in accordance with the motion adopted by Article 21: Those who accept... those who refuse... the 21st article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 22 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're talking about the number 22 of the 278 rows of legislation we're talking about. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Omar Suha Aldan Kazim Kurt Mahmut Tanal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0412par1024	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0407par1025	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0413par1026	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0407par1027	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0414par1028	Dear Kazim Kurt.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0407par1029	Mr. Wolf, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0415par1031	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding Article 22 of Bill 278. I salute you all. This is a clause that should not be part of this bill, which aims to speed up judicial services and especially operational bankruptcy services, because it takes a month to two months to deal with moving goods. Well, if we're trying to speed it up, we're going to have to shorten it even further, but I don't know what logic we're raising it to two months. In fact, one of the main ways to speed up the execution work is to improve the economic and social situation of employees in executive bankruptcy agencies. There has been a limitation, a limitation, in the period of your government, when executive managers, executive assistant managers and other clerks working in the execution were receiving fees and roads. Thus, the work slowed down because of the fact that officers in the executive bankruptcy agencies speeded it up in the foreclosure process, his hard work did not contribute economically to them. For a month, an executive officer slowed down due to the steadyness of the tuition he received, no matter how many files he went to, and the regular officer continued his work. So ten bailiffs, able to foreclose on 20 cases in one day, started making two, starting to make three. That's one of the real problems. In this law you've already made, and in the bill you've brought in, it's a basic goal to expedite court services, but there's no improvement in court officials, and you don't give the officers a bonus, and you don't reward them for the work of executives, and since it doesn't make sense, it's already slow. And when the courthouses close down, when the closing executives are added, the solution gets really difficult, really slows down. For example, how will our citizens, who have been assigned to the executive offices where the courthouses have been closed, benefit from the legal services quickly at present? How is he going to get the possibility that he's going to get the usual, cheapest, fastest form of impounding and buying? That's out of the question. Since there are 100km, 50km of coming and going and doing foreclosures and other transactions within the jurisdiction of the closed courthouses combined with other courts in other areas, the speed and efficiency of these works will really slow down. So at least here, it's good to leave this one month either normal or take it out of the law clause, because there's never going to be an application that will help speed it up. Therefore, in order to accelerate these services, it may be that we first need to provide judicial employees with a standard of life, a standard of education, and expect effective and rapid service from them, in accordance with the rules of justice and justice. Otherwise, it will not be possible to accelerate and activate judicial services at the courthouse. Therefore, we expect you to support our motion. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0416par1039	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 22nd article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 23 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 23rd draft of the 278 rows of the law we're negotiating. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Ömer Suha Aldan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0417par1050	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0416par1051	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0418par1052	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0416par1053	Mr. Yilmaz, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0419par1054	Mr. President, lawmakers, I'd like to bring to your attention a few more important issues regarding the changes made in the Executive Bankruptcy Act. I mean, Turkey's agenda is, of course, very busy, so many of our friends are talking about current events, but it's very important, especially in terms of practice, for lawyers, for judges, and because it's important for creditors and debtors. Now, especially in electronics, there are some regulations that have been introduced, such as the ability to offer in electronics, to sell in electronics, to sell in electronics, to make changes. This can be used electronically; it can be done electronically; it can be done electronically. But, friends, have we thought about what kind of outcomes such as this kind of reps or transactions that can be done electronically, so is there really enough infrastructure in the executive directorate? Now, think about it. An offer came through electronically, an offer was put on, so until the day before, this will come, but what the debtor will know, what he owes, only the executive manager will know. I mean, I don't know if the technical equipment's enough, but there's bound to be problems with the sales transactions they don't see, where the creditors don't have any information, and the debtors don't. Any debtor or debtor who doesn't pay for it will say that the executive manager gave my sale to someone else behind closed doors. It wasn't in my knowledge. Indeed, higher costs would be offered, but the executive director would say, "This is what he did. " For him, I don't think the sales and auction transactions thought to be done in electronics are very accurate because in our society, first of all, everyone wants to see the situation at this auction, who drives it, what kind of process it is. The creditors want to be satisfied and the debtors want to be satisfied. Therefore, I would like to ask that the application and the processing of the electronic media be removed first from the text of matter. And, in fact, the negotiations have passed, but many of our friends don't know what we're talking about here, what we're talking about, and what we're talking about, and what we're not listening to here, but what we're dealing with in our normal lives tomorrow is that we're going to have real serious problems, as lawyers, as creditors, as debtors, as any citizen. Now, the framework has been discussed in Article 21 concerning the fall of the foreclosure. They've already been limited to six months on the move, one year on the move. We all know that a year is short on immovable sales, but the lawyers know that. The arrival of tacits may extend the process, and especially if it belongs to an inheritance stake, we know that the lawsuits related to the resolving of the partnership will extend. Besides, we shortened the bids, and then we gave the bailiff a warrant, and if you don't deposit the sales expenses within ten days, I'm lowering the sale. I mean, I don't know where that came from. Anyway, if the creditors don't want it, what do they do? The debtor comes in, pays for the sale and sells the goods. I don't understand why the executive director was given such authority, why such a burden on the creditors. That's why we wanted it removed from the text. Other than that, friends, you can give up sales once, but we all know that when it comes to a debtor's agreement with a debtor, we can go through this kind of thing a few times. So once you give up, otherwise you can't give up, your foreclosure falls. What happens when you're told? We'll eliminate the possibility of a debtor and a debtor's settlement. So our goal isn't to solve people's problems? That's how we eliminate the finding of the solution with legal regulations, and I think that's not technically the right approach. Besides, my friends, now, we don't know what arrangement you're going to bring to the special jurisdictional courts, it's a mystery. I mean, as lawmakers, we try to watch it from the press, we try to watch it from columnists, but as far as I'm concerned, private courts are against the principle of natural judges, but the rules of judgment are against the rules of our Penal Code. Now, friends, what's the procedure? In Article 250 of the Penal Code...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0420par1065	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 23 is accepted. There's a motion on the 24th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 24th draft of the 278th row bill we've discussed. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali İhsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turgut Dibek Mahmut Tanal Ömer Suha Aldan Bkent Tezcan Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0421par1076	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0420par1077	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0422par1078	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0420par1079	Mr. Tezcan, Aydın MP. Here you go, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0423par1082	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're meeting with the esteemed lawmakers, Bill 278, which has been occupied by public opinion for a long time, and is called the Third Judicial Reform, which everyone has watched carefully. I also expressed it during the negotiations in the commission phase. In fact, the public had very serious, very high expectations. As a matter of fact, when Mr. Justice announced it to the public by adorning it with visual materials, it was really settled that the key problems in our judicial system would be solved in this way, but when we looked into the details of the judicial package, especially in the process of negotiations in the Commission, we saw something. The honorable MPs, in fact, gave birth to a mountain mouse in the third Criminal Package, which was presented as a reform. Turkey's main issues regarding its most important judicial problems are unfortunately not answered in this bill, which we present under the name of reform. Dear friends, look, today, when we open the newspapers again, we can clearly see what serious problems we have with the trial in Turkey. The unjust and long imprisonment period has become one of the main problems of the Turkish judiciary, especially the criminal trial. Dear friends, arrest is a measure in the law of universal criminal judgment, and arrest cannot be applied unless it is mandatory. It's a natural consequence of the universe of innocence, an extension. This is not a grace known to the prisoners, it is a right granted by the causality of innocence, and all modern legal systems must fulfill that right, but unfortunately, in our country, especially in political cases, the purity of innocence has been openly violated, and it has turned into a prison. Today, as we know it, we're going through a process where, in cases of Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, and so on, people who have been elected lawmakers have continued to be tried as prisoners in courts, even though there has been no evidence to be collected for four years or five years. Now, what should be the first thing that comes to mind when a package of judicial reform comes to our attention at a time of such pain, friends? A method that would reach the solution to these unjust and long arrests would have to be included in this package, but unfortunately there is no such arrangement. Now, here's the story, here's the story. The judges will write in detail the grounds for the continued arrest or rejection of the arrest warrant. A sentence has been issued. Now, is that judgment wrong? No, it's not. The verdict here is not wrong, but this sentence is nothing more than a declaration of knowledge, a repeat of knowledge. Dear friends, the obligation to justify decisions is a constitutional decree. All decisions are justified in the Penal Code, which is reflected from the Constitution. And yet, we think we can make it look like a innovation, in our current legal system, by re-explaining the failure to implement a ruling in our legislation with new sentences? Dear friends, it's only to mislead the public. If we want this package of judgments to respond to the need and wait, first of all, we have to move an arrangement here that will eliminate unfair and long imprisonments. In this framework, we can only answer a little bit of Turkey's need for reform in this regard. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0424par1094	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion on Article 25: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're talking about the number 25 of the 278 rows of legislation we're talking about. Article 1 of the article. The last sentence of the joke is removed and we propose that the statement be removed from the text and that the word that preceded this statement be changed to the last one. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Mahmoud Tanal Omer Lütfü Aldan of Emre Bridge Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0425par1105	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0424par1106	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0426par1107	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0424par1108	Emir Bridge, Tekirdağ. Here you go, Mr. Bridge.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0427par1111	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in order to activate and accelerate judicial services with this bill, new regulations are being tried in many areas of private law and public law, again in a bag. The Article 2004 Bankruptcy Act was also assessed within this scope, including this bag. Dear lawmakers, the problems of public action, the problems of the files exploding, the fact that thousands of people are acting, on the one hand, the shortages of officers, creditors or lawyers, on the other hand. In these areas, an absolute balance of rights must be set for both sides and the balance of those rights must be maintained. While maintaining the basic life rights of debtors, the rights of creditors must not be ignored. However, the truth is, lawmakers, no matter how many arrangements we make in these areas, no matter how many offers we make, we can't solve this problem by multiplying the debtor with the debtor. What's real is that it's Turkey's problem. Executive files have exploded all over Turkey, citizens are up to their necks in debt. I mean, should it be 40 percent, 20 percent, or a sales ad in electronics? These can only be solved day-to-day. The problem is that the high-value lawmakers are in AKP's economic policies. The problem is that the citizen's poverty has become poor until even the basic vitals of the citizen are impounded. In short, if there is a conflict here, this conflict is not a conflict between the creditors and the debtor, it is a conflict between AKP's economic policies and citizens, so the problem must be identified correctly so that a lasting solution to the treatment can be found. Dear lawmakers, we have made a motion on the matter. Our motion is, very clearly, that we are looking for the initial price of the first item declared in the commission to be offered at an increase of one hundred percent of the estimate price. If we don't get an offer, we'll go to the 2nd place. In the second bid, 50 per cent of the proposal is wanted. If the first 50 per cent rate is to be searched, as in the first increase, then the second increase already means nothing in the practice of executive law. In our motion, we say that if no one offers 50 per cent in the 1st increase, a lower rate should be set at the second increase than the first. It is also within the spirit of practice and the spirit of the law of execution. Madam Secretary, the matter of the courts that have been closed here has been addressed. There's been a lot of fair criticism about the closing courts. There's no courthouse closing in my area, but if there was, I'd have expressed my reaction as much as the criticism brought here. But I have a different reaction. I don't want to talk about the courts that are closing here, but the courthouse that has 250,000 inhabitants of Tekirdağ, Çororı district of Tekirdağ Province, which can't be opened, or, in fact, hasn't even begun to build. Madam Secretary, two times in Choro, projects have been made, projects have been spent around 500,000 dollars on such projects. It was supposed to be a tender for the court in October 2011, but no matter what it was, the tender was cancelled, the other location was announced, and so far, not a nail has been struck. Now, the cost of canceling two projects is about $500,000, and the citizens' $500,000 has gone to waste, so let's burn to it; 30 judges, prosecutors, still serving here and in the basements of the courthouse, where there are so many files? I salute your high council, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0428par1119	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 25th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 26 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're discussing the 26th Amendment bill of 278 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Ömer Suha Aldan Celal Dinçer Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0429par1130	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0428par1131	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0430par1132	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0428par1133	Celal Dinçer, Istanbul. Here you go, Mr. Dinçer.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0431par1136	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 26th Amendment of Law Proposal 278. I salute your high council. Law Proposal No. 278 is replaced by Article 26 (2004) and Article 123 (2004) of the Law Bankruption Act, where the tender period is increased from two months to three months. The three months of this period may be acceptable as a principle, but this balance has to be set very well. With the extension of this period, the debtor will be able to meet his creditors later, and perhaps the debtor will be able to take the necessary measures in order to avoid paying off his debt. Perhaps the right aspects of this extension will be heavier, because if there's more than one foreclosure on a foreclosure, it can be considered a principle of extension due to the time of the notifications. I'm not going to say much about this time here today, but since 1 October 2011, fees have been deposited in the courts in advance by the plaintiff. Thus, the fee required to prosecute under the name "Gigder's advance" is 10 times the price that has been paid so far. This decision is allegedly made to ease the burden of the trial, but the freedom of rights of a citizen is blocked by the taking of the tuition. With the court's physical conditions not improved, with the number of judges and prosecutors not increased, with the lack of completion of the assistant staff deficit, the case costs advance cannot be expedited to the court. On January 19, 2012, we proposed a motion and law to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This change has not been taken into account. Right now, we all know that our citizens can't go to court in the process of litigation due to prepaid fees. Dear friends, I'd like to talk a little bit about the apps at the courthouse. For the past two years, the appointments, the nepotism, the courthouse has led to chaos that has not been in it for years. With false complaints, judges and prosecutors are dismissed. The private lives of the presidents of heavy criminal courts are recorded and threatened under the table. While prosecutors and judges are in charge, the wives of those they believe to be in a position against power are assigned to separate positions, spouses and children, forced to resign. Further ahead, the deputy prosecutors who will become state prosecutors are appointed prosecutors in charge of the day care department. If the court has one day care centre to avoid legal proceedings, it is appointed as the attorney general in charge of the day care centre. I think it's enough to explain the unrest in the justice community and the chaos it's in. Dear friends, the ruling party does not drop the national will. He doesn't lift a finger when it comes to arrested MPs. Lawmakers elected from the same region were expected to fight at their own parties, while they failed this democracy test. No district legislator has ever lifted a finger for arrested lawmakers in his own district. I'm out of time. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0432par1144	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 27th article, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 27th Amendment, which we're discussing, is in row 27 of the 27th row. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Süha Aldan Celal Dinçer Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0433par1157	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0434par1158	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0432par1159	I'm having it read. It is against the rules of an electronic arrangement regarding the possibility of bids during the sale of foreclosures, openness of the tender, publicity, and visibleness in a way that everyone will be satisfied with. It has been suggested that this substance be removed from the draft text, as it was in the previous articles, since data in the electronic environment are not always thought to be corrupted or can be interfered with from the outside, as well as in the previous articles. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 27th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 28 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're talking about the 28th Amendment bill of 278 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Mahmoud Tanal Ali İhsan İkturk of Kemal Millendere Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Süha Aldan Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0435par1172	The commission does not agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0432par1173	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0436par1174	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0432par1175	Mr. Milldereli, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0437par1177	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to Article 28 of the proposed bill. I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, I'd like to share a number with you. One million, five hundred and ten thousand, one million, five hundred and ten thousand. What does that number mean to the MPs and the Minister? Mr. Secretary has left, but I think they'll tell him. That's the number of citizens our state should be a social law state with 102 courthouses closed, lawmakers. With 102 courthouses closed, 1 million, 510,000 of our citizens, 20 percent of our entire population, become victims of justice services. We also have three courts closed in our Edirne. In our Edirne, 50,000 people, 12 percent of the Edirne population, are victims of the services of the court. They have 22 villages, 24,000 inhabitants, and villages 60km away from Edirne, which were decided to be closed and merged with Edirne Central and Longörü courts. Meric is a county on the border with Greece, where human trafficking is active, where border violations are very intense, and where it is connected to the courthouse is a village of 55-60km. The district of Lalapaşa has the Hamzabeyli Border Gate. In the border of Bulgaria, it is our districts with mountain villages where there are border violations. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's go back to the districts where the courts have been stopped from being shut down. Why was the decision to shut it down, and then suddenly, why was it abandoned? What's the matter, the geographical position of these courthouses changed? Have the populations of these counties changed? Is there a problem with security? Has the number of files suddenly increased in Erzincan, in Tripoli, in Niğde? So some of the accounts, some of the evaluations were wrong. I'd like to ask the Minister: How much money do you expect to be saved by the closure of these courts? I'm sure you've been working on that. Dear lawmakers, the closure of the courts brings economic burdens to our citizens in our province as well as to our citizens in the entire country. Its income, particularly limited, will increase the victimization of the agricultural sector. The discovery of the expert will cost about a ton of wheat income, my friends. Moreover, even in Edirne, the agricultural community has about 8-10 tonnes of products produced annually. Besides, they're going to testify in cases. They're going to come 50 or 60 kilometers. He will have difficulty finding witnesses. Prosecutors are expected to work more efficiently with this practice, but discoveries will take four hours, which will lead to the inefficiency of judicial services and will become meaningless as we call it. Dear lawmakers, the fastest growing economy in the world, we call it the 16th economy, we send $5 billion to the IMF, then we combine the courts and we need even small savings from there without predicting alternative costs. On behalf of Edirne, I say that it is wrong to unite our courts in our district, where illegal immigration flows, where villages are away from the district, where the majority of agriculture will be affected financially, legally, it will be a victim to the people of the region, and state justice will be averted from the citizens. This matter must be reassessed and returned from the wrong. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit02spe0438par1186	Thank you, Mr. Millerdere. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 28th article is accepted. Congressmans, we have now completed negotiations on chapter one. I'm taking an hour off from the merger to discuss the materials in section two.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0438par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 128th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 278. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter includes interim Articles 29 to 53, including Articles 37, Interim Articles 9, 10 and 11 and 47. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Erol Dora is a Mardin MP. Mr. Dora, please. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0439par0011	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party on part 278 of the Law Proposal. Mr. President, the presence of a fair, good, fast-working and efficient judicial system is one of the basic principles of being a state of law. In order to be trusted in a judicial system, such qualities are essential. It is known to all of us that citizens are victims of long-term trials and endless case files. It is the government's duty to speed up judicial services. And the way to do that is to make arrangements for the good operating of the justice mechanism, because justice is not delayed. I think it's important that the bill for our country's biggest problem is that the judicial services work very slowly. But it is the presence of judicial security that is more important than quick and effective justice in the regulations concerning the activation and acceleration of judicial services. Will justice really be served? That should be the main problem with all the arrangements. When we speed up the judgment and activate it, it's like taking an eye out for the spirit of justice when we're doing eyebrows. Therefore, the main objective of the provisions for the speed of the judiciary should be to be the delivery of the right to the rightful owner. We all need to know that there's an extremely fine and delicate line in such arrangements. I want to say that unless justice is safely established and is balanced in relation to efficiency and speed, the planned arrangements will not work, but will only make the situation worse. Because, before we take action to speed up or activation of judicial services, the justice system itself needs to be removed from its distortions. We also think that such regulations would be necessary to make improvements with them personally, but it would be in no way positive to try to overcome this situation with the bag of laws. It is known that judicial services are very heavy in Turkey. The bill, which stands before us to prevent this, is far from solving such a problem, except for some positive clauses. A quick and efficient sense of justice passes through the fact that graduates of law school can perform their own professions in maximum proportions. When we think about current judges and prosecutors, the case file per person is extremely high. In this case, it is necessary to make arrangements for thousands of graduates of law schools to perform their professions and to close the gap of judges and prosecutors, but we see that there is no arrangement to close the judge and prosecutor's deficit. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the judicial package we are now interviewing, are also envisioning regulations that predict very important changes in the field of administrative law. One of the fundamental principles of being a real law state is that the actions and procedures of the state are in accordance with the law and the law. Under the rule of legality, every action of the state must be based on the law. The administration's applications are also subject to audit, and this audit is carried out on the basis of justice. This audit must, of course, be comprehensive, efficient and fast in accordance with the rule of law. The whole process has to be clear by the principle of transparency. The democratic and modern state tradition has been shaped in this direction for years. In light of these findings, our country will see the need for radical reforms in its relationship with the judiciary. This situation is being expressed in a way by everyone. Such reforms are needed in order for public services to be activated, anti-laws to be minimized. The judiciary must reach democratic mentality and have a citizen's axis, not a state. The amendments to the decision to halt executive regulations in the draft law clearly show that the bill is considered a state axis, not a citizen's axis. In addition to the rule of the 125th Article of the Constitution, which regulates the open way of the administration against all actions and procedures, it also shows that the administrative control of administrative operations under Article 2 of Law 2577 will be carried out in the direction of authority, shape, reason, subject and intentional elements, the procedures established by the administration are subject to administrative judicial supervision. The use of discretionary authority does not make the administration immune to judicial control because it is impossible to speak of unlimited and absolute discretion in the state of law. As a law state, the individual or regulatory procedures that governments have established based on discretionary authority are based on a legal and objective reason. Compensation based on discretionary authority must be established based on the limits and equality set by the law, in accordance with the requirements of public good and service, objective, reasonable and valid reasons and grounds. The halting of the administration is one of the most fundamental elements of administrative judgment and administration. Because it is only up to this institution to stop the execution of administrative procedures, which may lead to difficult or impossible consequences, and to prevent the rights loss by depriving the administration of actions in this matter until a decision is made. A number of legal regulations have been tried before concerning the institution of halting the execution, but the Constitutional Court has decided that the Constitutional Court will be against the Constitutional Court and that they will cease its executions first. Stopping the administration is an instrument of judgment that makes administrative judicial control effective. Without this institution, it is not possible for an administrative judicial audit to be an effective audit, to provide what is expected of it, or to protect the rights and freedoms of a weak person in the face of strong governance. It is not the fast functioning of the establishment, but the slow and late functioning of the institution is a problem for the rule of law and for the state of law. The cease-and-restraint of the executive agency was first set up to protect the citizen. The decision to stop the administration prevents the implementation of illegal administrative procedures and prevents people from suffering difficult damage to fix. On the other hand, stopping the execution is illegal in the judicial body, preventing difficult and complicated situations from being born due to the implementation of the canceled procedure, thus maintaining order in the administration's life. I salute you all again. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0440par0021	Mr. Dora, thank you. Second speaker for the groups, Oktay Ozturk, Erzurum MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0441par0025	Mr. President, I'm here to present the views of the National Movement Party on the proposed proposal. I salute you all. The proposed bill is alleged to be designed to ensure the activation of the judiciary and reduce the workload. However, it seems to be the opposite, not the Law Bill on Trials and Postponing of Crimes Against the Press Broadcast Way, but the aims to enable Judiciary Services to act on certain Laws. In the process of drafting the bill, the opinion of public and relevant institutions and organisations has not been applied, and there has been another rule classic. You know, the people of power know everything and do the best of it. As a result, the current bill can be restored, as well. It's all for the sake of power that rules the case. Hold on, we're in the third part of the judicial packages, so we're going to run into more packages, and they're going to break them. Mr. President and members of lawmakers, the bill we're talking about has not even been applied to the opinion of the bar members, and I don't think law schools have come to any mind. Therefore, the bill has broken the system of all the laws it refers to, and many fundamental principles, especially the rule of law, have been violated, and the freedom of rights with constitutional guarantees, have been tried to be eliminated. For example, the joke added to Article 1 of the Law on Business Courts, which is one of the amendments to the Work Law, can be determined by the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors, where there are more than one business court. This amendment is considered to be an expert in the judiciary in terms of business and social security law, but has it been asked what the legal opinion of the Court of Judges and Prosecutors' High Council thinks? I don't think so, because if they did, they'd know the truth, and they wouldn't have liked it. For power, this kind of counseling is unnecessary and meaningless. After all, they'll do the opposite at a point they don't want to do as they do in a private court of law. They don't know that the price of these zigzags is being paid in the harshest way for the entire Turkish nation. One of the key conditions for being a legal state is that the administration's actions and procedures are in accordance with the law. The judicial control of administrative work and transactions also refers to activities aimed at ensuring that fitness. Therefore, judicial control of the administration serves to prevent individuals from being wronged in the face of governance, allowing the legal state to become a reality. In other words, it protects the rights of those who are powerless against authority. However, changes to the administrative judiciary in the ruling bill are far from implementing the above goals. As such, the proposed amendment to the first sentence of Article 60 of Article 60 of the State's Law, which has been intended to be made in this framework, and to the first and third jokes of Article 61 of Article 61, limits the field of duty only to the first-level examination of the State's Attorney's Office and to the first-level court of the State. As it is known in the current application, prosecutors examine the case files that have been submitted to them independently from the committee to see the case, so that the file is examined twice with different eyes and provided for the seriousness of the case. In this regard, the state's attorney and prosecutors' opinion on cases referred only to as a first-degree court would lead to a more limited assessment of the prosecutor's case, which was originally a court of law, through appeals. The proposed amendment to Article 17 of Law 2577 in the first article of Article 17 will raise the financial limit available in the administrative judiciary to ensure that more cases can be solved without trial and faster. This change, which can be seen as positive in terms of speed, would bring more limited investigations in more cases, and would be a problem for the well-being and justice of the trial. Article 27 of Law 2577 recommends significant changes to the institution of stopping the execution. According to this, the Court of State or administrative courts will wait for the defence of the administration to be taken or the time of defence to decide whether to stop the execution. It's a vital institution that keeps the plaintiff from being a victim in situations that are difficult to make up for or impossible to make up for. Temporarily limiting this decision can have very harmful consequences for individuals and could lead to loss of rights. Although a joke added in the proposal has been attempted to address these problems in terms of operations that will wear off, it continues to be implemented in terms of processes that have no end but are very difficult to make amends. It is our understanding that this verdict, which limits the decision to stop the execution, should be completely removed from the proposal. However, the old arrangement, which binds the decision to halt the execution, to two cumulative conditions, in the form of difficult or impossible harms being born, and clearly against the law, has been preserved exactly the same. There are administrative procedures that can cause irreparable or impossible damage, even though violations require a thorough examination. In such cases, the legislator must cease to stand by the administration. Therefore, the conditions sought for the decision to stop the execution must be envisioned alternatively, and no temporal restrictions must be given to make the decision. Under these statements, we believe that the second joke of the existing 27th article should be changed as follows: "In the case of the implementation of administrative or administrative courts, the compensation for the implementation of the administrative action can be born or impossible damage or if any of the administrative procedures are openly illegal, the execution should be halted. In the business, then an effective judicial audit will be contributed. There's nothing in the bill but to look like it's doing something. The amendment proposed in the first article of Law 4054 shall be filed, not in the first-degree court of the Competitive Court, but in administrative courts. A special and individual-qualified decision made by the Competitive Association, a regulatory and auditory institution, can be held in the Court as the first-degree court of judicial control, which can contribute to the reduction of the amount of work loads already available, but should also be changed by the law of other regulatory and regulatory institutions such as the EPDK, as well as by other administrative institutions, should be audited by the general administrative courts. If these shortcomings are not repaired, the substance will not provide the desired results. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, let's be sincere and make changes that will truly ensure the legal security of this great nation. We, the National Movement Party, have always protected the interests of the great Turkish nation and will continue to protect it. We've had a lot of friends talking about courthouses that have been closed for a few weeks. I can't get past that. In two districts of Erzurum, the courthouse buildings have been closed, and the reason is the lack of work loads. Minister, I believe this decision is made by the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. Clearly, our friends here, gentlemen, are not looking at the social side of the event, the social side. A town of 2,500 inhabitants, the presence of a courthouse there is one of the colors of social life, perhaps three or five judges or prosecutors or officers who work there only contribute to that district. Besides, you're sending it to the nearest county in these counties. It's 30 miles to the town centre, 30 miles to the nearest district, 90 kilometers to the nearest district. The workload is low. It is said that 1,000 lawsuits will be filed in the district of Bell, for example, at a very recent time. Due to HES projects, there will be 700-800 files within a year or two. And it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on These people are going to go to Oltu County, 90 kilometers away for these cases. As a result, these are our immigration boroughs. And when these places are closed down, these people will come, here, they will share your scarce air, they will share your water supply, and those counties will land in the village. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We say: reconsider these decisions. And for Erzurum, leave the closing of the courts of Narman and Oll districts behind. We want this on behalf of the citizens who live there. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0442par0043	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. On behalf of the groups, the third speaker is Mr. Turgut Dibek, the Centipede MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You also have a request for a person, so your time is 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0443par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have been promised to explain the views of the Republican People's Party on the second chapter. With my personal request, we've merged our time on the department, and I'll explain our thoughts to you in 15 minutes. First of all, why is this package at the end of the semester? Why didn't the government or the ruling group want to bring the package on the agenda of the House? I'd like to say a few words about him. In fact, our friends have made this clear, and I don't want to mention it again, but I would like to point out that I think the contents of the package didn't satisfy you, either, so the Minister may have shared this package months ago, maybe years ago, with the press conference, and with a very public interest, with the press account. But then we found out that the ruling group didn't share the same interest in this package, either on the commission or after the commission was completed. In fact, from time to time, why aren't I and our other friends considering this package? Why don't you bring it up? Here we are going on vacation; the holiday process will begin, which, from time to time, when we met with our friends from AKP, they indicated that they would not discuss this package before the holidays and would not bring it up. We've said that, and we've had a little bit of pressure. And I'm actually getting out of here, so I feel like you have the idea that it's not worth taking out the package. I mean, you're at a point where what if we take this package off and we don't take it off? Here's the conjonk of that day when the House opened in October, and we'll put the package on the agenda if we need it, but let's take a vacation right now. In this package, all right, we've said it in wonder, we've done it at work, but I'm also considering that you're thinking that there's nothing to touch too many teeth; I just wanted to say that first, dear friends. Now, when we look at what the package is bringing, I'm really looking for something. So when we were talking at the commission, we made a nice analogy, so let's say the stone we threw at the frog that we scared off, that's our goal. What do we do, what do we bring? Otherwise, it's like, "We're bringing things with the package," you know, you know, you know, there's an app that you do from time to time, you give them with a spoon and you scoop them up. It's a little bit in this package, actually. I mean, what do we do? Let's put some things into this package, okay. Here's the idea of what we can get ourselves into, and we're already seeing it in the Executive Law, administrative justice, Turkish Penal Code, in the Law of Penalty, but in the meantime, what we can do to ourselves, in the meantime, what we can get ourselves into, and what we can get into. So there are substances that are so relevant to the public that, as far as people are concerned, you have a map of the road in your head that you haven't completed in the process that you've done so far. Well, the State Department, the changes in the administrative judiciary, a little bit, I think, is within that scope. Let's put them in there and at least make sure they're not missing. I'm considering the fact that you're doing it. I'll go into detail on these. The second part is more about administrative judgment. There are amendments to the State Code, the Executive Judiciary Act, as well as to district administration courts, tax courts, administrative courts, that is, up to 53. But, chapters three and four... I don't know how far we can go tonight. So, we're just watching the news on TV, and we're going to see this special court process that's going to come with the motion, and we don't know what its contents will be yet, but we're going to see that the TV people, the news channels, I think, are going to make a motion on this issue, but we're going to see how much it changes. So, actually, it was, maybe, one of the things that needed to be focused on. That's what Turkey needs. So, Mr. Secretary, I think he's presented the 4th to the Council of Ministers, 5 comes from behind, and I don't know about that, he's always packing, preparing, but, I mean, what is there to really solve those problems that Turkey is going through? So, right now, if we go out on the street, and we talk to our citizens, I mean, what should be in that judicial package, so that, you know, Turkey can get over some problems, relax? Now, I'm looking, what's this about? Something's up. Yeah, but what? So, the European Court of Human Rights on the matter of the arrest is condemning us all the time, we've become a country with a criminal record, I think we're ranking the world, so let's skip Europe or something, Turkey is the most condemned country in the world. Mr. Secretary of the Commission says he's been having trouble talking about it from time to time. That's what the fourth package says. Dear friends, we'll do it in the 4th package, and we don't know what to do with it. We brought some materials in this package. Now, arrest... so I don't think that our judges, prosecutors, you know, when they're judging the investigations and prosecution process, you know, when they go through their own filters, their own logic, when they evaluate it, maybe they shouldn't put us through the problems that we're having in practice today without too many changes. Now, we have a problem, arrest times, that's done. So we didn't have that kind of time in our penal code before 2005, so there wasn't a deadline for the arrests, it was open, empty. So here's our new Penal Code, a change in the Penal Code, but when I say hit, it's like he's killed. Guys, there's a ten-year, ten-year deadline in our current legislation. Where in the world... we're talking about an arrest, an arrest, a precaution. About that, you know, recently, dear friends, we've made some laws, and there are other solutions here, about supervised freedom, about judicial control measures. So the arrest is a last resort, the cruelest measure. I mean, it's a violent measure that upsets people the most, which upsets their families the most. So when this is necessary, it must be implemented, but in Turkey, the arrest has gone beyond the necessity, normally. What's in the package about that? Here's the reason. The European Court of Human Rights condemns us, so there's no need to arrest us? Is the weight of the arrest on the case or not? According to the case, there is no other method, other than arrest, that the judge will write down his motives. So we're making arrangements about this. He's got to do it anyway, so there's no need to edit it. If he's a judge, if he's doing his job, why am I arresting this person, these people? He has to explain his decision in a rational manner. Anything on the times? No. Once again, we can extend the original sentence of 250, 252 years to Article 102 of our Penal Code. So, how do you extend it? Three more years can be extended. I mean, where in the world is that logic? How did this go down? How did you recommend this Law here, our dear friends, and here you are? That's interesting, too. 2+3=5 Here's what we know about crimes against the Constitution, which is twice the number of crimes committed against the Constitution and other crimes, so let's do it for ten years. I mean, a man was arrested, he went to prison... and I've been listening to a statement from a friend of ours here in the Ergenekon case, and he said that our fellow MP, Mr. Balbay. I think it's the right number. I mean, you've been in front of the judge 196 times, you're under arrest, the judge always says: "The quality and nature of the crime, the fact that the evidence has not been collected, the suspect's suspicion of escape -- on these grounds we know -- remains in custody." Dear friends, I'm talking 196 times. I mean, we need to empathize. We can all be relatives of each of us, or God forbid, a painting like this for ourselves. I mean, we all need the law. I mean, if he's going to be there, there's got to be some sort of regulation by universal law. Now, when I look at what's good about this law, maybe a path will open up a path? There it is again, the 109th Amendment of the Penal Code. There, as a matter of judicial control measures, you know, it offers the judge an alternative. So, in connection with the crimes of up to three years, the judge was able to rule on one of the measures set aside from arrest. That's the end of the deadline, folks, for the commission on this. So, for all the cases, for all the charges, for all the defendants, for all the charges against the suspects, for all the crimes, except for the arrests, for which the law has counted -- there are additions, there have been three additional ones -- there have been additions, such as staying in a certain place, leaving a certain place -- and there have been new options for that change -- that can apply those provisions. I mean, maybe this is a positive change; yes, it's a positive change, but let me just say that the judges who are handling these cases without this change, the judges who are currently in custody over three years now, the MPs who are in custody... friends, I've given up, I'm talking about an ordinary citizen, and we need to have the same feelings for them, but I'm talking about the MP, the people who elected, the people who bailed me out, go represent me in Congress, and be my voice there, be my voice, be my word, be my word. So I'm not talking six months, three months, work, or a year of imprisonment, three years over, friends! In the European Court of Human Rights decisions, for all citizens, I mean, for all people, the period of imprisonment over two years is now brutal. There are a lot of decisions about them, Mr. Secretary and the bureaucrats know about them. So over two years, if you're going to keep any human being on trial in prison. It says now that the European Court of Human Rights, which we're on, is the court that enforces the contract: wait a minute, so I'm looking for special conditions. I mean, why are you still holding this person? We're talking about our MPs, so what's in the bill, what's in the bill? Nothing. So the 109th article I just mentioned may be judged by the courts. Now, about the administrative judiciary, I just told you, so you're in the habit of spooning and scooping. And there... and I've been saying that since I've been on this stand since the past, I mean, after the referendum, when we're discussing the Supreme Court's laws here, we've already told you, or rather, we've already told you, but you have a special interest in the State. The prosecution has made you so uncomfortable in the past, Mr. Prime Minister, that I remember what happened to me in a flash here -- here were the decisions that made us crazy. He's making ideological decisions. He said. So that's what the Prime Minister of this country said in the past, about the State, about the judiciary. Looks like the investigation into the prosecution wasn't completed. So in this law... when I was talking about the budget of the State Department here in the past -- I know very well, dear friends -- at the beginning of 2010, the State Court prepared a bill of 11 articles to the Ministry of Justice, or rather, he wrote a draft, he said: "Here are the authorities, the Court of State, the Court of Appeals, the district Court of Justice, and make the following changes in the law of Tax Court, our number will be less than a hundred thousand, so this is the solution. What was the point? What if, if we make these changes now, how can we do this in the future, sir? There's a workload of work, the files are over 200,000, the people are being victimized. Here are the citizens' rights being hurt. So let's appoint a new judge, let's open a new apartment, let's start two, let's run a double committee there, so how do you produce these reasons? Here, they were made. There were 95 judges in the court, and 61 new members were appointed under the law. Two apartments added. So 156 judges, one-quarter of them, Mr. President, and that's the law. I don't get it, so one out of 15 apartments handles administrative cases, the other cases are case offices. What's the point of Mr. President appointing a public figure who doesn't have the quality of a judge, who doesn't come from that notion, who works in public? You're doing an addition to that here, you know? Secretary General of the TBM, heads of regulatory and regulatory institutions... now I think of Zahid Akman. What I'm saying is: I wonder if Akman is going to become a member of the Court very soon. Their president will be a member of the State. There are these changes. You're obsessed with prosecutors. Prosecutors in the court, dear friends, are doing a very important job, so they're doing a very important job, and they're doing first-degree cases against the State, lawsuits from appeals, settlements, demands for the decision-making, halting of executives; they're expressing opinions on each of them, and they're very qualified people. No, from now on, the prosecutors won't make a statement, we don't need them. Why? They will only be able to express their opinion in the first-degree cases of the State. You have bypassed them as well. I'll be in touch with the motions in a moment. So let me finally say that when you're doing something good, you've actually made your point again, dear friends. That's what we're trying to tell our people, along with all our congressman friends. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0444par0069	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. On behalf of Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0445par0073	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Congress, of course, have become very static. Needs a little more attention and attention. On the one hand, the law passes, how it passes, and what it serves, it's not so obvious. That's why you have to open things up. You have to look at a view in public first, what is it? So in Turkey, what is the so-called state of democracy today, of the legal system today, even beyond? I'd like to give him a little attention. It's illegal to mess with the outside when you're inside the house. To go from close to concrete to abstract is also essential. Well, in that case, you'd have to look at it rather than the important one while you're explaining it. Turkey, today, I'm very clear, is a country that keeps MPs in jail representing the will of the nation. In fact, it's the will of the nation, not the MPs kept inside. Those who say let him go may one day be put inside. So once you can't be honest with your enemy, you can't be fair, you can't be legal, there's no democracy, there's no humanity. Justice, above all, is about the freedoms that you can recognize to yourself, to the person whose opinion you disagree with. There's no sign of that! There's no arguing about it! In particular, I'd like to point out that you're going to have to work on this. Whatever his motive, it means that the judiciary is under duress to the living.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0446par0075	Then why did you nominate him on purpose?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0445par0076	Let's not forget that the public knows that you're under arrest, and the answer is, you know, you get shot right in the face. What's he saying? The public voted for you knowing you were under arrest, brother!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0446par0077	Why did you nominate him?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0445par0078	It's over, it's over! You can't argue with that.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0447par0079	Teacher, the man you're dealing with is the man!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0446par0080	Then you shouldn't have run!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0445par0081	The people voted for you. If you respect will, if you respect the people, you respect him. Is there any other way to explain this? And let no one have any doubt that the judges are going to get the wrong way in an assessment based on the law's rhetoric. It's enforced by the word of the law and its spirit. A rijit arrest warrant based on the rhetoric of the law threatens public conscience, democratic rules, constitutional order, and everyone needs to know that. In a sense, judges have been made to decide whether or not lawmakers do their duty. As of this point, the state of the Republic of Turkey has ceased to be a state of law and has returned to the state of judges. The failure to resolve the issue of arrested lawmakers after the June 12, 2011 parliamentary general elections also demonstrates the contradiction in the judiciary's decisions. Look, sixty-two years ago, Mümtaz Faik Phoenix, elected MP from the Democratic Party in Ankara in 1950, was released in 1957 to be elected MP from Kırşehir. Similar allegations have come to another dimension, with the same law enforcement and incarceration of the convicted Engin Alan and other arrested lawmakers. So, from sixty-two years ago, we stand far behind tolerance, democratic perception, and approach to law, far beyond respect for the will of the nation. On the other hand, everyone knows that the judges of the sledgehammer trial are suspended a few days before the trial day, and they are being replaced with either right or wrong, for one reason or another. The replacements of these judges have issued an arrest warrant for dozens of people. The Lighthouse case -- which, by all accounts, is a case worthy of power -- has been dismissed shortly after the trial began. The new judges, appointed to replace them, suddenly release the defendants who have been imprisoned for three months in accordance with the government's expectations. There's no legal objection in the years of imprisonment in cases called Ballioz, or Ergenekon, and judges who have just begun to look at the Lighthouse case are being released for more than three months. In the context of basic rights and freedom, even political parties can't save themselves from the convention of monitoring, listening and recording, and this is what's being seen... Time's up. And that's not enough time. My respects to all of you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I mean, it's bad. By changing these laws, you can't bring democracy into the country by making a few arrangements there.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0448par0089	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Congressmans, the demands for the second chapter are complete. Now we're going to do a question-and-answer procedure for 15 minutes. I'll make a promise to our friends who are in the system. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0449par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as it is known, no one in my country will ever serve time for his debt in the State of the Union on January 20, 2012. A statement has been made to all public in the form of the Prime Minister. In this scope, how many people have been sentenced to prison so far -- according to Article 354. How many of these are in prison? What's the amount of people out there? Do you plan to make an adjustment? Would you support the motion? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0450par0097	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0451par0099	Thank you, Your Honor. Reverend Minister, now, the furthest village in the District of Akyaka, Kars is around 220 km, 220 km, and 5 km to Armenia. Now, in Akyaka County, you're shutting down these authorities and sending a message to our citizens? - How can they come and go 200 miles? Otherwise, you guys clear the border. Anyway, we've allowed the House to sell land to everyone now. We'll sell them to the Armenians. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0452par0102	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0453par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. The mass murderer, the separatist Ocalan, has often been taken out of İmralı Island on the grounds of scheduled treatment, and has been reported to the press that he has been absent for ten days at a time. The İmralı Prison Daily Vukuat Book has alleged that there is no record of Ocalan's entrances. What is the truth? Are the allegations true? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0454par0107	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0455par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, with the HSYK decision, will there be a new addition to some of the re-opened courthouses? Do you feel that there is a need for a new arrangement and review? Your reasons for closing are to speed up the trial. How will the not-fast judiciary in his own district speed up in another district? My second question is, won't the witness, the defendant, the defendant, the inquisitor, the case, the plaintiff moving to other counties cause new problems? Won't it make them longer in court? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0456par0112	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0457par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you have now stated that the courts have been closed because there are fewer files. Now, of course, if there are fewer files, there are fewer crimes committed, and I think that's something that should be rewarded for, you know, the cities, the counties. Can't you do this? Wouldn't it be better if you had transferred files to the number of files to those inefficient counties, and you could run the judges more? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0458par0117	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Gür...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0459par0119	Thank you. Minister, I visited Sincan Prison the other day. You know, it's a campus prison, a lot of prisons together, and we're faced with a terrible reality there. The food is cooked in one place, and it passes through three separate X-ray devices when it's distributed to other prisons. So, you see, the food is being irradiated. Do you know anything about this? Are you going to take precautions on this? Because both prisoners and prison staff are eating this food. I wanted your attention, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0458par0121	Thank you. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0460par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. I have two questions for the Minister. One of them, what's the status of the Bursa courthouse? Where are the project studies at? Secondly, there's an article in the local press today in Bursa. It says that it has been assigned to the Ministry of Justice to build a 213,000-square-square-square-foot prison campus in the Bursa Lotus Road neighborhood. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0461par0127	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Soydan...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0462par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you are closing the court of Çanakkale Eceabat and Bozcaada. You connect Eceabat to the centre, Bozcaada to Ezine, but both of them have access by sea. From time to time in winter, sea transport stops because of the storm. How will you provide the rights of citizens to go to the courthouse during the days of sea transport? How will you prevent their sacrifice?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0461par0131	Thank you. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0463par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we agreed with our friends in the Commission, our ruling group, that the number of our bailiff friends in our courts -- we had friends in the mine -- I know that there were about 3,500 or 3,300 -- but if I'm not mistaken -- but you know their position very well, they're in the assistant service class. I mean, we all know what they're doing, we came from practice, they're going through a lot of trouble. We wanted to make a motion for their admission into the general administrative services class, where each of us agreed, but we said, "Let's bring this up again while the General Assembly is under discussion." How do you feel about that, Minister?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0461par0135	Thank you. Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0464par0137	Mr. President, thank you very much. This shipment started after the fire in Urbana Prison, but while your female friends were being transferred to Sincan Type F Prison, they saw our friends on the road being severely tortured and seriously beaten. What are you going to do about it, Mr. Secretary, or research? Our second question: the main opposition party and the other opposition party are constantly bringing up the issue today, so from the yacht trip to the helicopter, and really, the Kurds have serious doubts and concerns about Ocalan. If the yacht is being held, when can this yacht stop at a Kurdish place? Second, if he's coming by helicopter, the Kurds have really had serious doubts about his life and health for a year. What do you think about that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0465par0142	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0466par0144	Mr. President, a lot of our deputies have mentioned the courthouses that have been shut down. I'm going to make a statement about the courts that were closed in Manisa. In the province, the Courts of Forty Trees, Lakemarmara, and Bridge Chief were shut down. Of these, Selden was re-opened because of the districts of the Kırkmağ AKP. Aren't there partisans here? Lakemarmara and Bridgehead... are a county far away from the Bridge. Can I be the reference to not closing our courthouses here? That's what I'd like to ask you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0465par0146	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0467par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. The first question of Mr. Light is: how many people are currently in prison for violating the oath by referring to a statement addressed to Mr. Prime Minister? We can only send this data to you in writing by scanning through the UYAP, Mr. Light. Other than that, you asked if we would support this motion. We don't have any work on it at the moment. I told you in the previous round. At this point, I'm saying we can't support it. We need to work on this. For the time being, the creditors...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0468par0151	We've made a motion, Mr. Secretary, if you'd care to...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0467par0152	I mean, at this point, we can't support it. Mr. Oğan had a question about the closure of the court in Kars (Akyaka) district of Kars (Akyaka) and the arrival of citizens and closeness to Armenia. Of course, within the borders of our country, there's no way we could possibly be involved in the idea of guiding any of our citizens to another country. The average work average for Akyaka is 384 years in the past three years, a courthouse that operates with about one file a day. Of course, when you say that, it doesn't mean that the courts that have little work are only closed because of it. Many criteria have been raised. Maybe we've got courthouses that don't close. I'm saying it's a lot of criteria because it's been assessed. Its distance is 61km, and its central population is 2,219 Kars Akyaka. Of course, in the first round, I said that the closing of the courthouse would be a lovely job, not an act. It's not too convenient for us at this point either. A politician doesn't want to get under that kind of weight where he's standing. But, dear friends, we also practice treatments that we don't desire from time to time to heal the body. In this sense, I hope that Turkey will complete its prosecutor's deficit in a few years, and it will actually exist with the county court, which will be resupplyed, which is my wish, but Turkey now has half as many judges as it should be, as of every 100,000 members of the Council of Europe. 20 judges should fall to every 100,000 people, but 10 judges fall to 10 judges in Turkey; 10 prosecutors should fall to every 100,000 people, while 5.6 prosecutors fall to 5.6. In this sense, such measures are the measures that we have to implement, however reluctantly we may be, until we can satisfy these shortcomings. It is possible to say the same about Çanakkale, Bozcaada, Eceabat and other lawmakers. Other than that, they brought Mr. Yeniçeri back up. Today at the Assembly General Assembly, Mr. Vural's opening came in abundance, and many of our MPs ask the same question over and over again. It was said that Ocalan, who had been executed in İmralı, went out from time to time, and stayed at the MIT guesthouse in Burma. In my first speech, I made it very clear that such a thing was not in question.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0469par0156	But that's what you said when you said there was no meeting in Oslo.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0467par0157	There have been questions after him over and over and over and over before you, have there been any before you? I also find it difficult to understand the desire to produce so many questions over such asparagas news.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0469par0158	But you said there was no negotiation in Oslo, then he left, then you said there was no protocol, and then he left. No, I mean, he's out, right?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0467par0159	That's what I'm saying right now, so just put it the other way around, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0469par0160	In fact, it was a matter of honor and dignity. Someone dropped it off, dropped it off at the rally site.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0467par0161	Mr. Self-Generals and Prosecutors have raised a question as to whether the decision to reunite with the Supreme Council will be added to the courts that have been reopened and opened. Dear friends, the Justice Department has the right to once object to the decisions made by the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. We have used this right to appeal, and from now on, a new right to appeal is no longer the ministry, so let me present it. Of course, there will be a certain burden on the problems of citizens moving to other counties in the combined courts, and it is not right to refuse. However, for the least part -- I'm also coming to Mr. Halaçoglu's question -- a small amount of workload -- one file a day, two files a day, the average, start at the courthouses, and the challenge of proper transportation and transportation, all of this has been evaluated. I'd definitely say we're not looking for any political merit or malice behind this.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0470par0164	Mr. Secretary, could you not do the opposite?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0467par0165	We would, but more people would have to move from other counties to you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0470par0166	Wouldn't you have rewarded better men?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0467par0167	I'd worry that we'd victimize more people, our citizens, at this point.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0470par0168	But you're victimizing people who don't commit crimes, people who commit crimes, at least there's...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0467par0169	There's a question from Mr. Gür. It's about food distribution. At some point in the prisons, food is cooked. When these dishes were distributed to other units, they were passed through the X-ray device. He asked a question. If it's an unhealthy dimension, we'll also have it examined. Now, the information we've been given says that it's only once, but if there's a healthy dimension to this, let me just say that we're also going to be working on it. Another question has been asked about the Bursa Courthouse. Last year, there was a study of the Bursa Courthouse. In that study, when the project was done, it was really a landfill that was sitting all over the land, but couldn't even afford a parking lot. Since there is a larger plot of land in more suitable circumstances, a project work is now about to be completed with broader possibilities. After that, I hope you get your contract. Mr. Dibek, they've raised a question about the bailiffs.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0471par0173	Mr. Secretary, I also asked about the prisons.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0467par0174	So if there's a chapter I can't answer, it's a question I can't get. I'll answer that in writing, Congressman. As for the bailiffs at the courthouse, can we get the assistant staff class to general administrative services?In this direction before, we've added this to one of the plans, but there is a government policy to do this collectively so as not to increase the imbalance between public employees, and we're going to do it in parallel.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0472par0177	It was 11,000 people, Mr. Secretary, none of this will be taken until we have 11,000 people. These guys go to the grave.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0467par0178	I'll answer questions I can't answer in writing later.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0473par0179	Thank you. Congressmans, the talks on the second chapter are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your votes after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. There's a motion on Article 29 that I'm reading. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 29th draft of the 278th row bill we've discussed. In the article, we propose and provide a change of the terms after the declaration. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Bulent Tezcan Ömer Süha Aldan Mahmut Tanal Is the commission in?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0474par0190	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0473par0191	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0475par0192	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0473par0193	Mr. Tezcan, Aydın... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0476par0196	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're meeting with the esteemed MPs, bill number 278. As we discussed this, I just told you that Turkey has serious expectations for judicial reform in particular, and unfortunately this bill is not capable of responding to those expectations. I just mentioned that you didn't respond to wrongful arrests about this bill. He is not responding to another serious need, which, unfortunately, has continued in Turkey as a state-of-the-art court, contrary to the principle of the judge. Special authority courts have a history of state security courts. Special authorities are a modified form of state security courts, and so far, by being seen as a reform, I am correcting these courts, who have been given extraordinary tasks, who have been given criminal trials in Turkey, who have a record of violating person's rights and freedoms, are unfortunately serving as very serious trials. Dear friends, in the Turkish legal system, in our practice of law, we must now end the special court of authority. Now, in the process of the Justice Commission, we talked about this, and at that point, the matter of the removal of special-level courts was discussed. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister has recently participated in this discussion, and Mr. Prime Minister's Criminal Court has been appointed to the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, which requires the removal of Article 250, 251, 252 (the article 250, 252), whatever wisdom it may be, and the appointment of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors has been made, and the HSYK decision has been issued, the appointment of new members has been made to the Supreme Court; and since then you have to withdraw it from the agenda, the discussion of the 250th article, the discussion of special courts. Mr. Bekir Bozdağ once said: "Special authorities have special duties, they have a need." When that need is gone, we won't need these courts, we'll remove them, but we need them now. We know about the trials he calls the need right now. So Turkey continues to have an extraordinary need for judgment. My dear friends, even this is to express to you that the courts of direct authority, against the law, against the judge's principle, are exceptionally appointed courts. This is a violation of universal law, against legal security, against human rights and freedom. Dear friends, now, when we look at the news that has been released to the press today, the debate on whether or not special authorities will be brought up again as a motion to the General Assembly is on the agenda. If you are sincere in an application that will remove the 250, 251, 252 articles of the Penal Code, which will remove the special authority courts, we are ready to go to the end, we have no doubts, but it appears that if we look at Mr. Elitaşs' statements to the press, we also find something interesting. Look, he says that special authorities are courts that shouldn't be in normal countries, that their function is largely completed, that they should continue with the current cases, but in the following cases, let there be no special court of law. My dear friends, this is not just a statement to run private authorized courts in accordance with the law, but a statement to the truth that you consider the coup law in Turkey as a means of legitimising it as a means of legalisation, as planned by the AKP civilian coup. In this framework, if you're just going to suggest that these items be removed at the appropriate time, you'll be doing a good job in Turkey, we'll see, we'll see. Thank you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0477par0206	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Article 29 is accepted. There is a motion on Article 30, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in the middle of a bill of 278 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Mahmut Tanal Ömer Suha Aldan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0478par0217	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0477par0218	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0479par0219	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0477par0220	Who will speak, sir?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0480par0221	Motive. It is against the rules of the tender to be open, public and visible in a way that everyone will be satisfied with. It has been suggested that the substance be removed from the draft text, since data in the electronic environment may always be corrupted or can be interfered with from outside, as it may raise doubts in both creditors and debtors. It is also not right to arrange for the foreclosure to be sold both at the first sale and at the second sale over 50% of the estimated price. If there's a 50% limit on both sales, then the second sale is meaningless. That's why good 129. The motion has been made, in its opinion, that it is more appropriate not to change the clause.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0481par0227	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 30th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Article 30 is accepted. There are two motions on Article 31: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 31st of the 278 rows of legislation we're discussing. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali İhsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turgut Dibek Omar Suha Aldan Bkent Tezcan Mahmut Tanal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 31 of the 278 rows of the bill be removed from the draft text. 30. 06. 2012 Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat Sırrıyya Leader İbrahim Rider Fair Wolf Nazmi Gür I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motionholders, or I'm going to have them read their alibis. Does the commission participate in these two motions?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0482par0246	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0481par0247	The government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0483par0248	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0481par0249	Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0484par0250	Dear lawmakers, in fact, there are four or five articles of the third judicial package about fair trial in our country, the legal state, the judicial process, the extraordinary courts that matter. There are four or five substances that we need to focus on, which are sensitive. Executive bankruptcy, administrative justice, you know, reducing the burden of justice, that's what they say from time to time. But I want to make it clear to you that Turkey has taken state security courts based on French DGMs. The French state took the security courts as they were, put them in the Constitution, established by 60 Constitutions, continued by 82 Constitutions. However, the French removed state security courts in 81. I was in France yesterday. We discussed it with the esteemed lawyers of the Lyon Bar and the Montamer Bar, the heads of the Bar. They said, "Do you still argue about it?" They said, "Are you arguing about what we removed in '81?" Remember the articles 141, 142, 163, of Mussolini the Fascist. We've been discussing them for years. The Italians lifted it up and banned freedom of thought. After thirty years, we removed it. Now, let's focus on the truth, on the issues that are going to come up in the following parts of this law. Does Turkey deserve such a view of extraordinary courts -- unbiased, independent -- appointed, politicized judgments? There's a lot of different arguments going on here, and there's a lot of false arguments going on. In 1999, the sentence changed state security courts due to the European Court of Human Rights. Who was in power in '99? June 20, 1999... and I speak to the ruling and coalition of that period: June 20, 1999... in the European Court of Human Rights... I have repeatedly ruled that the establishment of the state security court system of the state security court... is not independent and objective, and in the case of Ocalan... the European Court of Human Rights and Abdullah Ocalan's trial has been lifted. Now, after the coalition lifted that period in 99, after removing state security courts, military judges, state security courts, we're still experiencing the state-owned courts, the state security courts, who argue with the same status and logic. This does not suit Turkey's legal state. We know exactly what teachers and doctrine are arguing about. Let no man rise above what he has done in his own time and do no harm to this country as well as to the opposite of what he has done here. Will this Parliament or will not lift extraordinary courts in this country? That's the problem. This country has to throw these extraordinary courts into the garbage of history, it's got to stop; it's got to get up, and it's not going to be replaced again, and there shouldn't be any court like this. That's the spirit. Look, look at the rulers of that time, look at the teachers, you'll find something very interesting. The Minister of Justice of the period, in 73, from Fehmi Alparslan, to Günzer, but keep in mind the words of Cetin Özek, the democracy of September 12th, the legal state, and the state security courts and private authorities, who are his offspring, will have done an honorable job when the courts of this Parliament throw them into the garbage of history. With all my friends who sign this, the opposition is power, and this is the honorable work. We will say, "This is what we will do, and the rest is rhetorical. Don't get up here and water it with anything else. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's do something right. We don't want to beat up the farmer, we want to eat the grapes together in the name of this country, friends. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0485par0262	Mr. Kaplan, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 31st of the 278 rows of legislation we're discussing. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Ihsan Kokturk (Zonguldak) and his friends Mr. Tezcan, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0486par0269	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, in the process of removing the special authorities' courts, if we can really arrange what Turkey needs to do about it, in the coming processes, in the history of Turkish democracy and Turkish law history, this Parliament will have written its name in gold letters, the 24th-century Turkish Grand National Assembly. Dear friends, unfortunately -- I just told you -- when we look at the media coverage, I can't see the signs, I want to see the signs. Now, let's set up freedom courts. Something's started to be said. Dear friends, you cannot prevent unlawful conduct in that country by naming a court of freedom. We cannot conclude by turning the name of the state security courts into special authorities, just as we have not been able to make the law a judge, by turning his name into freedom courts to prevent unjust arrests in private authorities. What kind of a thing is that, guys? A court that knows the case, sees the case, sees the files on the trucks, leaves that court, decides to arrest him in that case, or decides to release him, and we'll think we'll avoid unjust arrests there. That's not gonna happen. I hope that's not true, that's what's going on in the press. Hopefully, we'll all do it together, if that's what it's supposed to mean, we've removed 250, 251, 252. Another thing has been said is that these courts will be passed on to the Anti-Terror Law and, in the same way, these courts will continue for certain crimes such as terrorism crimes, Balyoz, Ergenekon, etc., etc., but other major drugs and similar organised crimes will be excluded from the scope of these courts. Dear friends, none of this answers the need, none of which means that we are removing special authority courts in Turkey that violate the principle of judges; it is against the principle of legal equality, it is against universal law. Now, another thing we understand is that it's being done. Some investigative powers are also thought to be passed on to the Prime Minister to allow him to conduct an investigation; the authority to investigate the Chief of Staff and the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Dear friends, we are entering a process that has recently increased the Prime Minister's powers in a way we do not understand. Look, we've discussed half of the State Secret Act, and I think we'll see half of it on Monday -- we've given the Prime Minister the authority to determine what's going to be a state secret and what's not. We're forming the Human Rights Council, where we've given the Prime Minister the authority to decide who's going to enter the Human Rights Council. As we have authorized to investigate in the MIT Law, we have authorized the Prime Minister to be able to appoint a direct MIT officer directly and to appoint protected officials dressed in armor that could be protected from the investigation. Dear friends, in no state of law, in any democratic state, the prime minister's powers are so out of control and so limitless. When you made arrangements for the Prime Minister to meet so much authority, without any restrictions on him, you raised the debates of the presidential regime in a way that we couldn't understand. Dear friends, while actually creating the Prime Minister's regime, at this point I still don't understand why the presidential regime debates were raised when the Prime Minister increased his powers. I'm guessing that by predicting that there can't be a presidential regime, that the outcome can't be taken, the Prime Minister's powers -- like in the presidential system -- are now being sought to gather the powers in the hands of the Prime Minister. I suggest we give up these approaches, dear friends. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0487par0281	Mr. Tezcan, thank you. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit to your votes the 31st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 31st article is accepted. There is a motion on Article 32: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 32nd draft of the 278th row bill we've discussed. We offer and propose the addition of the sum of the clause, which will be specified in detail after the payment and the declaration of the payment of the clause. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Mahmut Tanal Ömer Suha Aldan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0488par0292	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0487par0293	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0489par0294	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0487par0295	Levent Gök, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0490par0298	Mr. President, good lawmakers, when we look at the basis of the law proposal we're discussing, it's written: freedom of expression accepted from basic rights and freedoms is accepted from fundamental rights in pluralistic democracies. Freedom of expression, which is the condition of future democracies if not, is considered the basis of many rights and freedoms, the source of personal and social development. Therefore, freedom of expression has been subject to many international documents, and our constitution has been subject to detailed regulations. After reasons have been counted in some articles, ▪ There has been a necessity for some changes in our legislation to protect the values mentioned above. Mr. President, when we discussed the law proposal described in general as this, a vehicle traveling in Diyarbakir last week was stopped by a police officer from behind. In this police announcement, stop your vehicle immediately, pull to the right, and come down with your hands up, and lean against your car. The people in the car didn't know what was going on. The announcement continued: "Stop." We call you, we warn you. Stop your vehicle, get out and lean on your car with your hands up. The people in the car got out of their cars and leaned against their cars. The police car from the rear called a tall dark friend of ours, stopped him, had a warrant to arrest him, a warrant to arrest him. This friend was later taken to the police, questioned, and asked him these are the days when freedom of expression was debated: "You have gathered in College the other day. Together with many unions, you have attended a meeting on mass contracting, guaranteed employment, basic human salary, additional payments to the pensions, pressure, punishment and exiles. Answer me. They said to that tall dark man. They asked another question: Another day, you attended a meeting of the Human Rights Association in front of the Statue of Rights. Why did you join? They said to this tall, dark man. The questions continued one after another. Another day, you attended a meeting in front of the Prime Minister's Central Building to protest working conditions, wages, and detentions. Why did you join us? They said the police told this friend of ours. My dear friends, we will fire if you do not stop by announcing that the police have stopped in Diyarbakır. This person and the person who attends these meetings we count is Mr. Lami Özgen. Look at the questions asked to a person whose aims are the activities of the KESK to continue their activities, and you are talking about freedom of expression on the basis of this clause, expanding the boundaries of freedom of expression. The most important trade union in Turkey has no right to talk about freedom of expression, rights and freedoms, the package of justice in front of us today, who are looking for the president of the most important labour union by police force, by calling him, by calling him, by putting his hands on the car. This friend of ours was asked more questions at the police station, and they said that some CHP MPs attended these meetings. Who attended? We joined, my dear friends. I joined, a lot of my friends joined. Is that what you're saying? Now it's your turn. If you say so, we're here, come, we're not afraid, we're waiting for you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0491par0302	Thank you, Mr. Sky. I submit to your votes the motion on Article 32: Those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit Article 32 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion on Article 33: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're meeting with the 33rd amendment of the 278 rows of legislation. By removing the clause from the text of the substance, we propose and provide the addition of the declaration. Ali İhsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turgut Dibek Mahmut Tanal Ömer Suha Aldan Do you agree with the commission motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0492par0313	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0491par0314	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0493par0315	We agree.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0494par0316	Motive.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0491par0317	I'm reading the reason: It's recommended that matter be more understandable.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0494par0320	That's enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0491par0321	I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... Again, unfortunately, since there's been a disagreement, I have to vote with the electronic device. We'll vote on the electronic device, and I'll give you a minute. Here you go, sir. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes Article 33: Those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 33. There is a motion on Article 34: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 34th draft of the 278th row bill we've discussed. By removing the clause from the text of the substance, we propose and provide the addition of the declaration. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Omar Suha Aldan Attila Kart Mahmut Tanal Commission?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0495par0336	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0491par0337	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0496par0338	We'll take it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0491par0339	Do I make you read the motive?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0497par0340	Mr. Card will explain the reason, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0491par0341	Mr. Card, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0498par0342	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. My dear friends, I want you to know that I am horrified and terrified, for the sake of justice, for the sake of the future of justice, for the sake of my country's social peace, for the sake of the law, for the sake of the government, for the sake of the judiciary, for the sake of this bill, for the purposes of the judicial services. I'd like to share my feelings with you, dear lawmakers. Look, we're dealing with a painting that's more than demagogy, and we're dealing with government spokesman who won't refuse to make false statements to save that moment. I'm really sorry to use that expression, but unfortunately, it's the truth. The Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Turkey, does not hesitate to make false statements to save that moment. That's not true, you don't have to do these things, you don't have to stoop to them. Look, dear lawmakers, we're talking about corruption in the judge's exams. What do we say? We're talking names, addresses, incidentals, pre-tests. The Minister of Justice of the Republic of Turkey does not move about such an event, does not make any assessment of the basis of the incident, as if it were an ordinary event, and says to me, "What is the matter with you? Go tell the OSYM." That's the essence of his answer, that's what it is. But, dear lawmakers, is it possible to accept such an answer? Irresponsibility, insensitiveness, leniency, pleasure! Who prepares those questions? Those questions are prepared by bureaucrats sitting on your right, sitting on your left, sitting behind you. Who's preparing those questions, someone else? If those questions were stolen, if those questions were served, it was your officer. Who else could have done it? Cases point to him. Are you going to be unresponsive, insensitive, or what are you going to say to me? And then you're gonna sit there because I'm your boss! [[From the AK PARTY rows, they sound like that.]] But what do we say, dear congressman? What do we say? Look, we're talking about the incident. We call it a name, we call it an address. You know what he's gonna do? If that minister is the minister of the Republic of Turkey, if he is the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Turkey, if he believes in the concepts of justice, if he believes in the concepts of justice, if he believes in his rights, if he wants to activate judicial services, do you know what he has to do if he really wants to distribute justice in accordance with human rights?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0499par0349	He should have it examined.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0498par0350	He should have it examined first, but he doesn't have it examined, he doesn't have it examined.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0500par0351	S.E.A.I.'s looking into it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0498par0352	He's saying it. What's he supposed to do? Shouldn't he be taking over his own review board in the first place? Because those questions have been leaked from the officers in his system. Is there any other meaning, any other explanation? Or, or, or... well, well...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0501par0354	How do you know?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0498par0355	Well, dear lawmakers, I mean, you're trying to make a point with a defense mechanism, but I believe you can't satisfy your own conscience. Look, let's leave the Justice Department's officers alone, and when the SNS officers steal the questions, won't you be responsible when they serve the questions? Who's going to be in charge? Aren't you going to pay for this?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0502par0357	The judge will ask you what you're dealing with.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0498par0358	Look, dear lawmakers, such irresponsibility is unacceptable, such enjoyment is unacceptable. Is such a thing acceptable, dear lawmakers?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0502par0359	Mr. Attila, the judge will ask you. He'll go to trial.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0498par0360	Of course, Mr. Secretary is uncomfortable with what we're saying, because he's uncomfortable, he's demagogued, he's lying, he's lying, sir, he's getting an agility attitude, he's reacting.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0503par0361	Your language is not correct.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0498par0362	To be honest, the fact that he hasn't lost his sense of discomfort still creates an optimism for us, despite everything. We say if he can still maintain his sense of discomfort, then we will continue to disturb my dear friends. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0504par0366	Mr. Card, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0505par0367	No charges without papers.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0498par0368	How else would he have a document? Name, address, document. You'll find it, I won't.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0504par0369	Mr. Card, Mr. Metiner, please... please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0498par0370	If he has a conscience, if he has justice...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0504par0371	Mr. Card, thank you. Mr. Secretary, they'll make a statement in a minute. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0506par0374	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, who have just been quoted, Mr. Congressman, have taken the oath of a motion to change the word "also" to "also" in his motion, and then...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0507par0375	Mr. Secretary, answer me this! If you have any sense of justice, answer me this!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0506par0376	...has accused, slandered and slandered the loving Justice Department bureaucrats of the Republic of Turkey's homeland.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0507par0377	Stop playing games and answer me!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0506par0378	The test questions mentioned are not prepared by the Justice Department. The questions of the test mentioned are being prepared by the OSYM to the academics, and the OSYM is receiving applications. The bureaucrats of our Justice Department have no influence or influence in the trial process.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0507par0379	Isn't the government responsible?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0506par0380	I'd like to ask them to know a little bit more before we throw away these kind of slanders.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0508par0382	You avoid the question every time!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0509par0383	Thank you. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes Article 34: Those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 35 that I'm reading...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0510par0386	You didn't vote on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0511par0387	You didn't vote on the motion, you voted on the clause before the motion was voted on.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0512par0388	We didn't vote on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0511par0389	You voted directly for the item, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0513par0390	They answered the motion. Right, I had to vote on the motion first. You're right. I submit to you the motion that the government has entered: those who agree... are accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0511par0392	Thank you for your contribution.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0513par0393	In accordance with the motion adopted, the 34th amendment...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0514par0394	President, not accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0515par0395	You're confused, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0516par0396	E, you agree to the motion... you raise your hand to the motion, and then you refuse.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0517par0397	Guys, would you shut up for a second...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0516par0398	Mr. President, you counted, it's too much.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0518par0399	They're already in!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0517par0400	They've joined the motion, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0519par0401	Is this a piece of cake?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0517par0402	I submit to your votes the motion that the government has entered: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 34 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 35 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 35th draft of the 278th row bill we've been talking about. We offer and propose the addition of the sum of the clause, which will be specified in detail after the payment and the declaration of the payment of the clause. Ali Ihsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Flood Köse Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0520par0414	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0517par0415	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0521par0416	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0522par0417	Mr. Ali Original...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0517par0418	Mr. Özgündün, İstanbul... Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0523par0421	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, we're discussing the Third Judgement Package. Mr. Minister said in his presentation: "More human rights, more freedom of the people, this package ofjudgment has arrived in an effort to bring the cases to an immediate conclusion." Dear friends, yes, judgment is important, so whatever right you give people, if there's no independent and impartial judgment, citizen, the person who's being violated, if he can't get his justice, it's just a fantasy to talk about human rights in that country. Now, interestingly, perhaps by some twist of fate, Mr. Egemen Bagis, who represented the government at the time of the government, you know, was sentenced to prison two days ago because a college student threw an egg as a protest. Now, what do you expect from a judgment that makes such a decision? Whatever law you bring, if a college student who protests a member of the government is going to jail for throwing an egg, dear friends, there's a serious problem in the judiciary in this country, you know, question it, question it with your conscience. Dear friends, Muyesser Yildiz, journalist, was arrested for a year and a half, released. I don't know why I was arrested, why I was released. Do you really know? So a member of the terrorist organization, a member of an organization to overthrow the government... what happened, you let him go. What's the matter, apocalypse? Nedim Sener, Ahmet Şık, the same way. Soner Yalçın is still under arrest for the same crime. You're still holding the head of the General Staff of the Republic of Turkey because of the establishment of a non-terror organization and running it. So when you tell the Chief of Staff to set up the terrorist organization, you actually refer to the Turkish Armed Forces as a terrorist organization under his command. Who's doing this? Here are the special jurisdictional courts. So the essence of this judicial package is that these special authorities, the courts, who are out of control, derailing the train of justice, are definitely, frankly, dismantling the courts, which, in order to remove it, are going to go around, in line with the maslahata, build a terrorist court in Ankara, and if you give the cases that are being handled by the special authorities in the district court, dear friends, I say sincerely, look, this arrangement will threaten you, don't make it a threat to you the next day. Come on, let's get these special jurisdictional courts out of the way. Other courts, severe criminal courts in Turkey, the judge who was there, graduated from the same faculty, went through the same training. They'll judge him if they're guilty, but he won't abuse his authority. Because right now, private court doesn't actually judge, dear friends. In the course of the investigation, he decides based entirely on the evidence the police have brought, some against the law, some of which he faked. I'm saying it as a republican prosecutor from those times. Look, the indictments have been turned into indictments along with the police, in the cutting-copyal-stabulation method. I'm afraid the courts can't read those files, it's not possible, it's not possible. So tens of thousands of pages will read the file, sir, and in 24 hours, he will decide whether to continue the arrest or reject it, no way. Therefore, special authority courts must be removed and Turkey must be normalized. Dear friends, today the prisons are in disaster; you know there are 124,000 prisoners, prisoners. Well, there were riots two weeks ago, and he's calm now, but we don't know when it's going to go off again. Thus, in Turkey, the arrest has turned into an execution, a punishment. The arrest must be applied to this measure in very special cases, when it is absolutely necessary. For this reason, the changes you will make in -- the name check -- 109 will not be enough for me, so it can be abused as soon as you leave it to judges to apply it. In particular, we have a motion to make regarding the situation of the arrested MPs. Of course, the arrested MPs... about a year has passed on the job, our elected MPs on June 12th, eight of them -- our MP -- are under arrest. I hope you'll support the arrangement that will pave the way for the release of these, and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0524par0430	Thank you, Mr. Original. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0525par0432	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0524par0433	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All in favor... Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. I submit Article 35 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 35 is accepted. There's a motion on Article 36, I'm having it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 36th draft of the 278th row bill we've discussed. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali İhsan İkturk Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Süha Aldan Turgut Dibek Mahmut Tanal Süleyman Çelebi Mr. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0526par0444	He doesn't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0524par0445	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0527par0446	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0524par0447	Mr. Çelebi, Istanbul...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0528par0449	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, we're actually talking about Turkey's most important subject. We're actually talking about Turkey's law, or rather, Turkey's illegality. Turkey has a lot of problems, unemployment issues, poverty problems, health problems, education problems, hundreds of me count problems here, but the only area where all problems can be overcome is the law. Where there's law, you can overcome these kinds of problems, but if the law isn't dominant, the law isn't fair, the law isn't equal, there's no way to solve these problems, dear friends. I'm not a lawyer, I'm a very valuable people of the law among us, the lawyers are among us, but it's our duty to solve this rebellion and put it on the right course, in the case of an overwhelming majority of the people of Turkey, who are being outlawed, in the case of a rebellion against the law in Turkey, in the case of injustice. Who will respect the law first? The first thing to respect the law is the administration, the state is the man. If the state doesn't comply with the decisions that the law makes and resists, if it doesn't meet the requirements of those decisions, it smells of salt there. Now, look, dear friends, we've had a press conference today about 110 of our friends' problems. Friends of the Turkish Institute of Standards who were expelled from the Institute on March 11, 2011. Go to the court. They said, "Go to the court." The court has decided to extradite, a extradition order. The employer objected, went to the Supreme Court, approved the Supreme Court, but instead of the 110 people who were appointed by the authorities and executives of this institution -- they were fired because they were just unionists -- they took 110 people. So what's the problem? There's no more workers there, no more employees there. They're dumping 110 people, they're replacing them with 110 people, and they're taking 2/b status, which is also illegal. Despite the Supreme Court ruling, there is resistance here. Who's resisting? Let alone the private sector, let alone the other management levels, the state of this country, those in this country's state level don't fit in. Now, dear friends, if the people in this building don't fit in and ignore the ruling, can we talk about justice, law, human rights in that country? Now, I've been listening to the lyrics a lot here, and for the most part, Turkey has gone back to semi-prison, and I'm very clear. So it wasn't necessarily those who were inside, but 59 thousand who were in prison in 2002, now 159,000. Here's the advanced democracy, here's the open prison. So let us establish a law that is truly objective, in line with the international field that makes this law a sovereign of the law, because on the one hand, we call it the European Union, we call it the European Union standards, we bring out the bans on strikes in the air-works arm, the Minister for the European Union almost played here. There can be no talk of law and justice in this country unless Turkey is free of this disgrace. I invite everyone to make a law that respects real law, justice and human rights. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0529par0459	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 36th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 36th article has been accepted. There's a motion on the interim Article 9 of Article 37, which I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 37th draft of the 278th row bill we've discussed. We offer and propose that the clause added with the first joke (interim Article 9) be replaced by three months. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Omar Suha Aldan Mevlüt Dudu Mahmut Tanal Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0530par0470	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0529par0471	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0531par0472	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0529par0473	Mevlüt Dudu, Hatay MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0532par0476	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. The law of the Torba, some say the law of the soup -- this package, this package, the judicial package, is the new concepts that AKP Power has given to law and parliamentary literature. Right now, we've got another package of judgments on our agenda, the Third Judgement Package. The Department of Justice has been paying full attention for some time now to speed up the trial. In this package, he claims, he intends to speed up the trial, as did the previous packages. First of all, the acceleration of judgment does not mean that true justice will be carried out. Of course, delayed justice is not justice, but it is important to increase quality and quantity in the judiciary. When this is done, the judgment will already accelerate, and it will already be independent and fair. However, as with the previous packages, this package has no provisions to speed up the judgment. On the contrary, there are provisions that will slow and even block the judicial process. For example, the 45th article of the bill narrows the area of the prosecutor's office, limiting the prosecution to first-degree trials. This sentence does not mean speeding up, but further slowing down the administrative judiciary. That's what it's about to speed up the trial. One of the rare provisions, which have a positive function in this bill, is that certain crimes that require criminal fines are subject to administrative fines. In this way, it is useful to say that the system will save time and effort. Dear lawmakers, have other expectations of this bill been met in society? I'm afraid not. For example, there is no arrangement for long-term arrests. In all the world's democracies, only one measure of judgment, imprisonment has turned into, unfortunately, an instrument of prejudicial punishment in our country, an execution without a trial. There is no preventive sentence in the package. For more than a year, the eight elected deputies of this nation have been prisoners in prisons, which means the will of the nation is a prisoner. Unfortunately, there is no arrangement in the package to remove that shame. On the one hand, the punishment for crimes against private life is increased, while on the other hand, some journalists who have been tried for these crimes are being granted covert pardons. So here's a new attitude that you've developed recently, and it's showing itself again, just as you'd like to do with the special jurisdictional courts, which I'll talk about in a moment. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this attitude is for those who don't touch me to live a thousand snakes. You realize that certain structures within the law and justice department are starting to deal with you now, and it's your turn to stop it. On the other hand, you've given us the privileges of the past as a silence to that particular structure. The bill also envisions various regulations concerning the Law on Prohibition Bankruptcy. It is impossible to understand that the Law of Bankruption should be completely changed, but it is impossible to translate it into a patched bundle with constant changes. The arrangements for the qualifications of the prosecutors aim to give a share to people who have no experience and no knowledge. So, where's the qualified, true and true justice? Where's the independent judgment? Prosecutor's office is restricted to the bill. In the current practice, prosecutors of the State are considering the basis of the work and the halting of the execution of the prosecution as the prosecutor's appeal and all the cases he faces as the first-degree court. So the prosecutors of the State are acting as a co-worker for the prosecution agencies, and statistics show that prosecutors of the State are working faster than the prosecution agencies, so prosecutors of the State are not slowing down the State. You should know that the reason the administrative judiciary is blocked is because the number of discrepancies created by the administration is increasing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The reason for this is the lawlessness of the AKP's ruling. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0533par0491	Thank you, Mr. Dudu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the interim clause of Article 37: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the interim Article 10 of Article 37, which I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 37th draft of the 278th row bill we've discussed. We submit and propose that Article 10 of the interim clause, which is added to Article 2004 and shall be declared in accordance with Article 10. Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Free Special Kadir Gökmen Öğüt Süleyman Çelebi Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0534par0502	It's highly appreciated, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0533par0503	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0535par0504	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0536par0505	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0533par0506	I'm reading the reason: It was proposed to make the text of matter more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept it... the motion is accepted, on the interim clause of Article 37, which is based on Article 10. I submit to your votes in accordance with the motion adopted in Article 37, which states that those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. There's a motion on the interim Article 11 of Article 37, which I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 37th draft of the 278th row bill we've discussed. We would like to submit and propose that the declaration of the Chamber of Artists and Artists be added after the declaration of bar president on Article 11, which is added to Article 2004 and Article 11. Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Attila Kart Free Süleyman Çelebi Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0537par0521	The commission does not agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0533par0522	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0538par0523	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0539par0524	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0533par0525	I'm reading the reason: It has been proposed to include a representative of the business and artist's room in the area during the assessment of the value of the property that was decided to be handed over to its owner. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary Article 11 of Article 37: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are no motions on Article 38. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Article 38 accepted. There's a motion on Article 39, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 39th time in the current Bill of Legislature Number 278. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Bornt Tezcan Attila Kart Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0540par0542	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0533par0543	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0541par0544	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0542par0545	Dear Kazim Kurt...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0533par0546	Mr. Kurt, Eskişehir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0543par0548	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made in Article 39 of Bill 278, which is in session. I salute you with respect. It's an extension of the law reform that you've been trying to do all the time in the last decade. We add a new temporary clause to the Law on Business Courts 5521, and we say: "We have extended this work until the district administration courts were established." To reflect justice services more effectively, more productively and healthierly, to be implemented. But what a wisdom, since 2005, unfortunately, the district courts have not been established above the first-degree courts, and the Supreme Court has not been transformed into an appeals court. Thus, the government, which is now postponing the establishment of district courts to September 2013, is trying to find an excuse for its wrongdoing by delaying the law. My dear friends, the district court courts must be established at once if they are to be established because this has become a structure that has broken the system and the sequence of our judicial laws. Why hasn't it been implemented, why hasn't it been built so far, and why has it been extended every two years? It's all about justice and the way you look at the system, and it's a problem with procrastinating because we're going on a logic that doesn't want cases to end with minimum cost and as fast as possible. In Turkey, however, people consider justice as the basis of property and seek justice in their most cramped environment, but justice has shaken the system, corrupted the system, and become unequivocal, has made people miserable. Now, every semester we walk with new reforms, new reforms, and the logic of the business. We don't know how far we're going. As long as the district courts are not set up, there is no possibility of recovery, but unfortunately, in normal circumstances, the government and the Ministry, who should be doing these things in a democratic and transparent environment, were not very happy about it. The package, which we are currently discussing as the 3rd Criminal Package, is not clear what will come into it about the special authorities. Public opinion is discussing it, public opinion is waiting for it, and at the time of the night, I don't know, nobody, we don't know, and you don't know what to do about special authority courts. Therefore, we keep doing these things wrong by overriding them, by speculative considerations, and another law in six months to correct this wrong, another law in two years, and we will continue to offend the democratic state of law in Turkey as long as it goes with this logic, but this Parliament's duty is to immediately eliminate these special authority courts and to open obstacles to those seeking justice and justice in Turkey. As long as we don't do this, we don't have a chance to answer. We're prepared to give you this account, but you seem a little troubled about it. My respects, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0544par0555	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Commission has a request for a reduction on Article 39. Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0545par0559	Dear President, it will be in the form of the apartment that gives the decision to the apartment given in the temporary article 2 of Article 39. Fix it, I'll present it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0544par0561	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0546par0562	The decision is enough, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0544par0563	With the commission's request for this revision, I will submit Article 39 to your votes and seek the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor, all those in denial. We'll vote on the electronic device, sir, since there's been a disagreement between the clerks. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there is a sufficient number of decisions, the clause is accepted. There's a motion on the 40th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 40 on the current bill of law number 278. Article 1. We offer and propose that the five hundred Turkish liras in the joke be changed from the thousand Turkish liras. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Celal Dinçer Bkent Tezcan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0547par0579	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0544par0580	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0548par0581	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0544par0582	Celal Dinçer, Istanbul. Mr. Dinçer, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0549par0585	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 40 of Law Bill 278. I salute your high council. The Law Bill number 278 provides changes in the 25th and 26th Articles of Law on Residents and Travels of Strangers No. 5683, which was released in 1950. The 25th article was sentenced to two months to two years in prison for those forced to live in Turkey according to Article 17. In the same way, this new bill removes this prison sentence, bringing administrative fines from 500 Turkish liras to 3,000 Turkish liras. It's a positive development to be converted to a fine. In this respect, it is possible to participate in this form of matter, but it is being removed by a bill sent by the Ministry of Internal Affairs a week ago by the Ministry of Interior and by a bill discussed by the Interior Commission, which brings the amendment to the Law on Housing and Travels of foreigners in Turkey. Right now, it's been adopted by the Internal Affairs Commission. With its main number (1/619), we are now bringing a new change in a law adopted by the Interior Commission and ruled to be removed. This is one of the mistakes the government has made in making the law, in what we call the law, when it comes in a hurry to bag anything. This isn't new, you've done it again before. You've done it before, under the Law of 666. You remove the Mining Study Search Foundation there, and in a change the day after that, you publish the Mining Study Agency's Review Board regulations. When making these laws, these bag laws, please study them in detail, study them well, do not be challenged by such errors, this Parliament will not be occupied. Honourable lawmakers, there's too much demand in prisons, too much. More than 126,000 people are in prisons. The riots have begun. Justices of the AKP have been arrested, AKP has been unable to raise prisons. It's almost time for you to start moving around, prefabricated prisons. The subject of closed courts is a separate wound to Turkey. Now, you're closing hundreds of courthouses. We've seen it in our bureaucratic lives. We want a file, we want a document, sir, lost in the move. You will carry hundreds of files, precious MPs, I warn you here. What about these files? What about these people's rights? Tomorrow, half of these files will be lost on the road, half of them will be destroyed, and hundreds and thousands of people will lose their rights. Please, turn this wrong. In the same way, you say the rooms are inadequate. Well, won't people be victims? Where are you going to fit these archives into the rooms you're moving in, which courthouse are you going to fit them in? Besides, you closed the courthouses. The people who will come to explore will travel hundreds of miles away. What about the cost of the discovery on this citizen? Consider this side of the business. We just shut down the island, saved money. You can't tell me. You have to think about the money those citizens will pay for an expedition, and the money they'll pay to appeal to the court. I wish you'd come back from this wrong in this way without spending any time. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0550par0591	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 40th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion on Article 41: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The currently in session is 41 on Bill 278. Article 1. We propose and propose that the $ 5,000 Turkish lira of the two thousand Turkish liras in the joke be changed to seven thousand Turkish liras of the three thousand Turkish liras. Celal Dinçer Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Bulent Tezcan Ali İhsan Kokturk Attila Kart The commission, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0551par0604	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0550par0605	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0552par0606	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0550par0607	Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0553par0608	Thank you, Mr. President. I was just talking about something that was removed from the march. In this bill we're discussing with the Internal Affairs Commission, the final clause of the law on foreigners is being lifted, Mr. Governor, in order to give an answer, the law is being lifted with its final clause, but it's being punished with another clause. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 41 of Law Bill 278. I salute your high council. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, there's a report from the European Association of Judges for Democracy and Freedom, the council of the Council of Europe, about Turkey. I would like to briefly read this report: the judiciary has gained a dangerous dimension in the hands of political power in Turkey. Administrator manipulates judgment. The judge's independence is threatened. The ruling party is exempted from the judiciary. These dramatic allegations are taken from the report of the European Justices for Democracy and Freedom, or MEDEL, which serves as the Council of Europe's legal adviser. The report strongly criticises the Turkish judiciary. Lighthouse, fix, MIT, KCK investigations have been cited as examples, stressing that those in possession of political power have gained dangerous dimensions, the situation threatens judge, prosecutor's independence. In the report, which criticised the intervention against JASAV and Judiciary-Sen, the report said that prosecutors and judges are exempted from prosecution by investigation, hand-holding or amendments to law. It's said that he's being manipulated by the judge. It is among the findings in the report that the judiciary has been ordered by political power and has been rendered ineffective of its original functions. As a solution, members of the judiciary are advised to form autonomous units. In many European reports, you take note of the reports that commend you, but you ignore the reports that put you down. This is a subject from Europe that is directed at you, towards your practices. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, Turkey has never experienced a period where so much law has been broken and injustice has been knee-deep in injustice. Turkey has been put in a tunnel of fear. Presidents of this country, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, have begun to complain about the judiciary. Let's not go too far, let's take a look at today's newspapers. Mr. President is critical of the investigation in İzmir. None of the allegations in Izmir have entered the jurisdiction of the special authorities. Many government officials criticize it, but we see that in all the packages brought in, there are no steps to correct it. There's still talk of a double standard in the world that can't be accepted in any way. The trials are in place, the ongoing trials continue, especially for a few cases, and the rest will be passed new procedures. In no legal system in the world, the rules of procedure can be enforced in such a way. Can we call the lawyers who think about it, the people who think about it, the people who distribute justice, the lawyers? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's not make these mistakes over and over again. This is our chance for Turkey to be a peaceful, habitable, free country. Now that you're putting everything in this bag, let's put the free materials in this bag. Let us make Turkey, our paradise country, a habitable, peaceful country. In the hands of all of us, in the hands of this great House, let us all decide together. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0554par0618	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 41st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 42: To the presidency of TBM, 42 of the 278 Numbered Law Proposal. We would like to change its statement to five hundred. Alim Light Muharrem Varlı Özcan Yeniçeri Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 42nd edition of the 778-Defense Numbered Bill. Article 1. We propose and propose that the $ 5,000 Turkish lira of the two thousand Turkish liras in the joke be changed to seven thousand Turkish liras of the three thousand Turkish liras. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Bulent Tezcan Refik Eryılmaz Attila Kart Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0555par0637	It doesn't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0554par0638	Government? We disagree, Mr. President. Mr. Refik Eryilmaz, please come in.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0556par0642	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In modern democracies, laws are prepared by consideration of the needs of society, but unfortunately, in all the laws and proposals that the government has referred to parliament, the government is acting on an understanding that is more concerned with the needs and needs of society than with the needs of society. The demands and criticism of society are not considered in any way. We are now discussing a law on travel agencies and travel agencies' Union Law, but unfortunately, travel agencies in all the provinces that live next door to Syria are on the verge of bankruptcy due to our difficulties with Syria. As we speak of this proposal of the law, I'm afraid the war tampons are now being stolen in the area. With the government's policy, the country is drifting into darkness inside and out into the swamp and into war. This is the process of foreign policy that has been shaped under the influence of global imperialist forces. A dirty and disgusting game is being played in Syria, a neighbour, a friend, and a brother. Global forces have given Turkey an important role in this dirty game. Every day in Syria, bombs explode, suicide attacks are carried out, soldiers, children, civilians are slaughtered by armed groups with blood on their hands. They attacked Damascus with 1,100 kilograms of explosives. Many children died among them, at least 55 people died, hundreds injured, innocent children's young bodies torn to pieces. What kind of violence is this, what kind of democracy is this? When it comes to taking out a drag of the Great Middle East Project and cleaning up around Israel, it's about flattening a mound on the road to Iran, and dividing Muslim geography in half before Shii, Sunni axis, and then disintegrating democracy as an excuse. Those who don't even pronounce freedom to ride a bicycle, let alone vote for Saudi Arabia women, are taking democracy to Syria! Syria's blood pool, Syria's crying, Syria's resisting. What did you want from this Middle Eastern country, where you live with the Alemi with the Sunni, with the Armenian and the Jew, with the Turk, with the Arab, with the Kurdish, with the open head, with the troubled, with the pains, and with its own beauty, and with its unique beauty, to grow the democracy plant in the land? Until yesterday, we have been listening to joyful Arabic songs, and there are cries rising from their radios. They have no conscience in imperialism, no morals in imperialism, no compassion in imperialism, no care for broken children. Look, those kids were sent billions of dollars to the terrorists before their blood was cold. It is well known that the intervention and sectarian war in Syria are an extension of the dirty war under the name of the Great Middle East, which the United States and its collaborators want to carry out in the geography from North Africa to the Middle East. It is clear that a war in Syria will affect the entire region and will lead Turkey into the Middle East swamp. Turkey should never be allowed to be dragged into such a swamp. We invite the government to serve the national interests of our country, not the interests of international forces in the Middle East. Two people, children of a thousand-year-old history, who once shared the same flag, were torn apart by imperial impacts. Now we're dealing with a second imperialist attack. We, the CHP, will stand against this attack with our people. The Syrian people and the Turkish people are brothers and brothers. We salute all the people who fight imperialism, stand up straight. Remember, the last words are always said by those who resist. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0557par0651	Fivear Assad...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0556par0652	Don't be a subcontractor of America!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0558par0653	Thank you, Mr. Eryilmaz. Friends, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who do not accept the motion... the motion is not accepted. 42 of the 278 Numbered Law Proposal. We would like to change its statement to five hundred. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Mr. President, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0559par0660	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0558par0661	Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0560par0662	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0558par0663	Mr. Yeniçeri, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0561par0664	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today, justice has become Turkey's strictest element. A study on large masses found that 86 per cent of the people in Turkey view justice as a primary concern. The foundation of the state is thus described as justice. In fact, our nation's importance for justice is evident in the expression that persecution can't be ruled by a bandit. In the affairs of the state, the candle of the state, the candle of Omar, the candle of Omar. That's what the Hazreti Omar, who used it in the affairs of the state, told us. Farabi says that society mingles with love and lives with justice. The Great King says that giving water to trees is watering the thorn of persecution. That's what our culture says. But there's a problem here, which is what we need to understand about justice. Justice has come from ancient Greece as a concept, which has been constantly discussed. Two thousand and five hundred years ago, there was an argument between Polemarchus, Thrasymachus and Socrates. From this discussion, Polemarchus describes justice as giving everyone their dues. So Socrates asks the drunkard, "Is it justice to put a knife in the hand of the drunkard and a gun in the hand of the enemy? It's not. It says. Then he asks, "What is truth? ' He says: "How will we know whether people are friends or not?" He asks a question in the form of a friend, whether we should call him a friend or a friend. Another question arises from there, and Polemarchus says: "If it is good for a friend, it is good for a friend, and evil for an evil, it is right to do it. " And when they do evil to wicked people, do they not take a worse position than those who do evil in the value of men? The result is that neither harming a friend nor an enemy is the work of a good person. Justice or righteousness is what comes in the best interest of the fittest this time. The ideas that today cannot have an absolute sense of right in political philosophy, that there is no need to look for any religious, moral principles in the relations between the ruler and the ruler, that say that law is always the thing for the strong, stand in front of us as a practice repeated by relativists and sceptics. Now, as in the case of Hakan Fidan, it is not in the state of law that the government adopts a law specific to bureaucrats; as in regulations concerning the presidency, it may not be in the state of law that it changes the constitutional decree by law. The years of imprisonment and similar practices and whining show that justice is not at a certain level in Turkey, and it is problematic. Montesquieu says that if a person in England has as many enemies as his hair, there is no chance that he will be wronged. I'm afraid the situation has come to this. [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] Would you look at this situation: A police commissioner dedicated his life to fighting criminal organizations was suddenly arrested and imprisoned as a member of a terrorist organization he was fighting for because he touched zülfüyura. He's been in there for months, and he's almost forgotten. The Chief of Staff of Turkey's 600,000-strong army has suddenly been arrested as a member of a terrorist organization. It's like he doesn't have an organization, he doesn't have a gun, he doesn't have a tank, he doesn't have a plane, and he's building a terrorist organization, which is interesting. I'm not making any comments, and I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, friends of the AKP, are you clear on your conscience? That's all.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0562par0674	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 42nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 42nd article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 43: T. B. M. Head of Parliament. The 278-selected bill/proposal is 43. I request that the clause be removed from the draft/proposal text. The signatures of the other motion are: Faruk Bal Oktay Vural Muharrem Varlı Mr. Commissioner, do you agree with the two motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0563par0688	We don't agree with them in terms of compounds or different proposals, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0562par0689	Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0564par0690	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0562par0691	Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0565par0692	What's the matter, did the Commission join or not?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0562par0693	We don't agree. The Commission said. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0566par0695	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I bid you good night. Mr. Commissioner, instead of saying we don't agree directly, it gives us the hope that he'll agree with such fancy words, but unfortunately he doesn't.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0567par0697	You have insulted the grace of Turkish.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0566par0698	Dear lawmakers, I have made a promise that the amendment to Article 43 of Law Proposal 278, which we are discussing, is not acceptable, therefore, to remove this clause from the proposal text. On this occasion, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to share with you what this clause predicts. This article regulates the qualities of the Court members, who can be a member of the Court. The 8th article of the existing Court of Appeals has already counted these, but there are additions. One of the extensions is very interesting, the people who will be secretary-General of the TBMM, and those who will also be presidents of regulatory and auditing institutions, and those who have been present at the Ministry of Finance, the legal advisors who have been removed, the Director of Legal Services and Legal Affairs, can become members of the Court. What's interesting is that the current law requires you to serve as a state official for at least 20 years, which is reduced to 15 years, with your proposal. Now, I sincerely want to ask Mr. Secretary-General of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey before, during the AKP administrations, are we making room for those who are currently available, or why was that change in the law necessary? Now, there's no point in setting up a place with these kind of laws that come in the middle of the night. In this country, 75 million people have finished college, graduates, PhDs, hundreds of thousands of children will be prepared for KPSS all day and night to get a job, he'll run that test, and then he'll get the right to it with the stolen questions, he'll get 15 years, he hasn't done 20 years yet, but we'll somehow set up a place for someone who's been suspended, Mr. Secretary. This doesn't suit the House. If you're going to make a proper law, then you don't have to bring it here, you're already doing it with the law. Now, I'm asking you, which TBM Secretary General are you setting up for a membership in the State Department? That's what this stuff is about. Take this off, please. Fifteen days from now, when you put someone there, it'll be clear how true that is. If you're going to move the man-sized staff through the House, then there's no point in waiting until this hour, tell me, you already know how to arrange this somehow. Therefore, this clause is a specific clause in this proposal, which is a provision for a senior civil servant of sixteen, seventeen, eighteen years, which has not completed twenty years. This is nothing else. Mr. Secretary, I'm sure you know as well as we do how sad these individual arrangements hurt people's conscience. Therefore, I wish to accept this motion, but we've spoken to the consciences too much so far. No conscience, contrary to the mark here, has moved until today, but I'm sure from now on, it will move. Dear lawmakers, we've discussed many issues so far, but there are some clauses in this proposal that will not leave you alone in this world for the rest of your life and the rest of your life in the afterlife. As members of a terrorist organization, you forgive them by this law that they have aided in terrorism. Therefore, I say, consult your consciences well, and when you raise your hand to this law, please watch carefully and make your decision accordingly. People in this country who steal or fight with their neighbor... they're going to go to prison for stealing bagels... they're going to wait for the day, they're going to jail for breaching their commitment, they're going to jail for three months, but you're going to get forgiveness for the members of a terrorist organization and those who aided them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This is a reminder from here again. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0568par0713	Thank you, Mr. Light. On the other motion, Mr. Young, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0569par0716	Mr. President, valued members, we have made a motion to remove Article 43 of Bill 278 from the draft text. With this Article 43, significant changes are being made regarding the qualifications of the Court of State members and the conditions and seniority of the members to be appointed to the State. In the old days, regulatory and regulatory institutions could not be elected here; and now, with this, they are brought here. The Secretary-General of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is taken here and in another joke, here are those who are present at the authorities, such as the chairman of the 1st legal counsel and the chairman of law services and the director of legal affairs. Now, esteemed MPs, the Court of State is a very high institution. So our administrative law system today is a legal system from French administration law, and it's inspired by the French State Department, and it's a very large institution. In fact, it results in the healthy functioning of that state, when people who have been appointed to the State are subject to legal thinking, information, recognition of the state, and a healthy trial in the field of law. Look, the decisions made in the French court are 150 years old. That's where the same crime is being carried out, but we can't find a five-year sentence, let alone a five-year sentence. Why? Because it's always the law that changes, it's always people who are unqualified. Now, the presidents of these regulators and auditors... now, Mr. Recep, who will probably bring Zahit Akman. You know, the other day, Cemil Cicek's son, EPDK, was appointed to the Energy Market Editing Board, and you're doing this arrangement to appoint him or to appoint him as a member of the State Department. I mean, it's embarrassing. Friends, the Court is a high place. You have to have a certain knowledge to get there, but if a Minister of Justice like Sadullah comes and sits at the Ministry's office, you'll have to bring the shepherds to the State. I mean, there's no need for law. What's the need for legal knowledge? Because this state is no longer governed by law. This government has now destroyed a concept called law. In your reign, with the judge's channel, you were counter-revolutionary. You have now destroyed rights and freedoms by using judges, using certain special officials judges and prosecutors. You've kept innocent people inside for five years. You're arresting everyone against your own power, anyone against yourself, especially Mr. Recep, but still, in the Lighthouse case... why did you fire the Lighthouse prosecutors? Because they've come to a place. I'm asking now, is there a Mr. Recep or do he not have people around him who carry suitcases and money in Germany? That's what we want to know, guys, that's our natural right. I'm not saying there is, we want to know if there is. Why did you fire these prosecutors? Look, someone in the newspaper wrote the other day, this Grand Secretary of State, who fired the prosecutor who was investigating a 100 trillion-dollar export case! This great Minister -- I'll tell my master -- when something touches him, he's pulling him out of office. Yeah, how do you run a government like that? Would such a state run? What kind of justice is that? Who's the reason he's doing this? Thanks to your fingers. Those fingers of yours, then, after a while, you will be asked about the sins of your own people and your children, and your descendants will be questioned about them. What kind of government is that? I mean, you bring it in, you cover up the heists with your fingers, you cover up the injustices. You made a motion here the other day, sir, transparency in the tenders... only those who are called to the tender take the contract, and the others don't. I woke up there, and I said, "Is it true, gentlemen, that the righteous, the bee, the literary, will not accept this motion?" That's right. Because, in your time, this state has been handed over to thieves, unfortunately everything is being looted, the law is being destroyed. After that, you bring them in and make laws until these hours. Gee, one thing already brought in one item one day: Law has been destroyed in Turkey, the Constitution has been destroyed... judges are with you, what more do you want? There is no Constitutional Court. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So don't let people work until these hours, at least have pity on these officers who work. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0570par0729	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0571par0732	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0570par0733	I'll submit two motions of the same nature to your votes, and I'll do a roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tankulu, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Ööner, Mr. Cihanr, Mr. Acar, Mr. Fırat, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Kuğoglu. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit Article 43 to your votes: those who accept... Those who do not accept... Article 43 is accepted. There are two motions on Article 44: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit the following amendment to the 32nth amendment of the existing Law bill 278 rows (the Article on Article 44) in the Charter of Justice. Ali Riza Özturk Attila Kart Gürkut Acar Mevlüt Dudu Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan Kokturk İlhan Cihaner Mahmut Tanal Ali Original Flood Kose Sezgin Godkulu Article 44-6/1/1982 was changed in the following way as follows in Article (1) (c) of Article 2575 of the Law on Prosecutor's Office. اc) To regulatory procedures that must be implemented across the country. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 278. We propose and propose that the bill of the number-four bill be removed from the draft text of the 44th Amendment. Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat Secret Sakık Erol Dora Fair Wolf İbrahim Binici Does the Commission agree with the final motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0572par0768	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0570par0769	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0573par0770	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0570par0771	Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0574par0772	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, Mussolini created in 1926 to protect the fascist regime in the Turkish language of... (x) Private court for the protection of the state. Some bring France's example of the state security court, which is not in line with the example of France. While France is flying from Libya to Egypt, they are taking the plane to Paris by forced landing on two Mirage planes; they are abducting Bin Bella, bringing it to Paris. Algeria is the most important name in the struggle for freedom. There are no judicial conditions in Paris; 500 kilometers away, they bring them to a sound, perfect castle, where trials begin. That's where the idea of state security courts enters the French judicial system. And 1.5 million people die in the French-Cezayir war, and in the end, the war of France-Cezayir ends with the release of Bin Bella (a thousand) and the freedom of the Algerian people. We're at a point where he has to be very careful about putting historically, indexes into the judicial process as Congress. In this House, every word is preceded. When it comes to judicial reform in particular, everyone needs to look very carefully at what he has done and the signatures he has made and the decisions he has made. Where are these extraordinary courts a gift to Turkey? From the 60 revolutions, from the 80 revolutions, from the coups. Now, we're going to make arrangements on a matter of impact. It's not just that, long imprisonment is his problem, secret investigations are his problem, private interrogation methods are his problem, procedures are his problem, so the burden of the trial will be eased, and on the other hand, the shame will be spared. Now, I look historically, it's not much of a history anymore, is it actually called the year 2001, just eleven years ago -- was this National Program accepted in Parliament? It's been done. Has he been committed? It's been done. Was he entitled to a fair trial in any of these commitments? I did. Were these courts ever to be dismissed? I did. Why did he stay until today? Now, wasn't the 2001 Constitutional Amendment made here? Done. Wasn't the 2001 constitutional amendment granted a fair trial? He's been brought in. Has the 36th article been changed? Yeah. Well, you're going to side with the European Convention on Human Rights, and then they're going to be in the Joint Partnership Document, and then... there's two parties in the House in 2003, so there's the AK PARTI Authority, and the main opposition is CHP. Now, did you or did you not sign the Convention on Civil Rights and Political Rights together as well as his twin, Economic and Social Contract? You signed it and Congress approved it. You did it right. It was a shame that Turkey did not sign these two contracts, the Convention on Civil and Political Rights. Are these two contracts entitled to a fair trial or not? There is. Well, then we'll just sit here... if we're having a good night's work, make it worth it, fellas, make it worth it. Let no one suffer from this trial, this extraordinary court, this persecution, this tyranny. Let's make it legal, let's get a fair trial. End the process of independent and unbiased courts. Let's work on that. Let these sleepless nights be worth it. At least we've left your children extraordinary courts, we've removed them, even if there's nothing else we can do here. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0575par0780	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0576par0781	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0575par0782	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 32nd amendment of the 778-line law bill, which is being discussed, shall be changed in the following manner. Article 44-6/1/1982 was changed in the following way as follows in Article (1) (c) of Article 2575 of the Law on Prosecutor's Office. اc) To regulatory procedures that must be implemented across the country. Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0577par0791	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0575par0792	Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0578par0793	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0575par0794	Attila Card, please, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0579par0795	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion regarding the bill in connection with Article 44. I salute the General Assembly. My dear friends, the European Union of Judges is a professional institution that is effective by its criticism, by its opinions and suggestions on judicial practices, and by its generally accepted reputation. This organisation is making assessments of Turkey, making assessments of Turkey. I'd like to share these findings with you, my dear friends. In his findings, the MEDEL (The Union of European Judges) finds that the appointments and appointments to the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors are based on what criteria? Members of the HSYK express their actions according to the criteria written in particular. The European Union of Judges wants to see these carefully written criteria, but it does not get results, such a criteria, the written criteria, the written criteria, are not presented to the European Judiciary. After that, the report states that they promised to send text on our request regarding these criteria, and so far these texts have not been reached or delivered to our side. We have the impression that transfers and promotions are being used as a form of punishment against judges and prosecutors who are not pleased with their decisions and attitudes. They continue, they state in relation to ongoing cases: ▪When investigations and trials begin to take a dangerous dimension for those who hold political power, the first thing the government does is to hand over the case to the relevant prosecutor or judge, to change his duty or to change the city in which he is in office, or to start a disciplinary investigation against him, and by making a change of the law, to exempt his ruling supporters from the judiciary. There is no need for me to repeat what matters they are in here. Right after that, the Lighthouse reports that prosecutors are being dismissed and tried. With prosecutors suspended, they say the case has changed, the defendants have been evacuated, the German prosecutors' demands to be involved in the Lighthouse case have been rejected by the Minister of Justice. The report also links the presence of a relative of the Prime Minister and the change of the law as the trial continues, and points out the appointment of prosecutors and police after the MIT Undersecretary was called to testify. As a result, the report says: A comprehensive analysis of the issues of the judiciary shows how serious an analysis Turkey needs, valued lawmakers. Here, in fact, as the Republican People's Party, for the past seven years, for eight years, the European Judiciary Union has also identified and attributes all of our findings to the report with technical statements and legal statements. In fact, at the point where we're here, we need to make this question a little bit more concrete: Are we aiming for judicial independence in Turkey or for the effective work of the judiciary in Turkey, or do we now want to eliminate an obstacle to our hand, the power struggle, the internal power struggle? Actually, that's the bottom line. Of course, the fact that these changes have arisen is that, valuable lawmakers, Turkey is quickly moving away from being a state of law, let alone being an active judicial service, let alone a state of law, and that's the main thing. Turkey is no longer a state of law, precious MPs. Once again, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0580par0802	Thank you, Mr. Card. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 44 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 45: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 45th draft of the 177th Amendment. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan İkturk Turgut Dibek Gürkut Acar İlhan Cihaner Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Attila Kart Mevlüt Dudu Sezgin Godkulu Flood Köse Ali Original on Mahmoud Tanal Article 45-2575, Article 60 of the article (1), the first sentence of the article has been changed as follows: The State's Attorney will transfer the case and appeal files mentioned in Article 61 of this Law to prosecutors according to the distinction of duty he will see fit." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 45th edition of the 778 Numbered Law bill. We provide and propose that the clause be removed from the text. Faruk Bal Oktay Vural Muharrem Varlı Commission, do you agree with the final motion read?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0581par0825	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0580par0826	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0582par0827	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0580par0828	Dear scholar Light, Kütahya...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0583par0830	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 45th amendment of the bill we're discussing. On this occasion, I salute you all again. Dear MPs, during the meeting of this law today, at around 8:30 p.m., an attack on a police vehicle patrolling in Diyarbakır's central Baghdad district with a Molotovkotakiyl, and an armed attack on Durukan Barracks in Van Özalp district at around 9.30 p.m. Therefore, the attacks are being increased from one side so that you must immediately take out this law and add to it what will be added. They deliver the message to all of us. Dear MPs, Mr. Secretary, there have been different statements from different mouths in the past week, which is true about the CMK's 250th amendment? Which deputy prime minister do we trust, the prime minister or the minister? When will you bring them here, who has been promised what, please explain them at least in this House? He's not watching citizens right now anyway. There is no live broadcast on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, after 7:00 p.m. as an application for advanced democracy. We should know, but we don't know who was promised what? Whether it was given in Oslo, or given in Imralı, or at the MIT guesthouse in Bursa, let us take a look at these words.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0584par0833	They all did.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0583par0834	Please explain to me where these promises were made. What do you want to change with this law? You want to put dynamite on the foundation of Turkey, explain that so we know. And when we get to our citizens, we'll explain: they put the dynamite here, here, here, here, and we'll say, these are the ones who put it there. Same here. Now, we're going to narrow down the mission to the State. The first sentence of the 60th Article of the existing law, the State's Attorney, says the prosecutor will transfer the case files to prosecutors according to the distinction he will see fit. I mean, the D.A.'s office has been assigned to their initiative, and he's giving it away as he sees fit. Now, what do you bring with this 45th amendment? See, the State's Attorney's Attorney's Office transfers the case files to prosecutors in order to report their views on the basis of the first-degree court as the first-degree court. One, first-degree court, you only give this task to the first-degree court; two, only the foundation. Take him away and at least the prosecution won't go to trial. I mean, what kind of legal state do we live in? Do you feel that comfortable? I mean, what's with all the sass? What's with all the sass? Is this country yours alone? For God's sake, I'm ashamed of myself as a member of this House for bringing these arrangements to this House. I mean, that's it, this country, it's a piece of cake, it's a piece of cake. That's not gonna happen. As prosecutors at the State's Attorney's Office have been narrowed down by this arrangement, the allegations that the amendment will result in a swifter trial in the State Department are never true. D.A., on the contrary, is not responsible for the collection of files at the D.A.'s office. The files from the lower courts until they came to court are the cause. Now, you're not finding solutions around here, in the DA's office, just about the basics... so, if it's wrong, or if it's a misdirected case that leads to the victimization of a citizen, what's he going to do? I don't have that either. We'll only be able to make a point of view. Therefore, in this proposal, there are materials that will dynamite this country, even though it is compressed with a sentence or two, carefully examined. There are things in this country that have seriously undermined the principle of this law state and will seriously burden the future of brotherhood and peace. Our duty is to warn you. And in return for that warning, you'll probably weigh your own responsibility. I salute you all again, and expect your support in our motion.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0585par0841	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 45th draft of the 177th Amendment. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends Article 45-2575, Article 60 of the article (1), the first sentence of the article has been changed as follows: The State's Attorney will transfer the case and appeal files mentioned in Article 61 of this Law to prosecutors according to the distinction of duty he will see fit." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0586par0850	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0585par0851	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0587par0852	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0588par0853	Dear Süleyman Çelebi...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0585par0854	Mr. Çelebi, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0589par0856	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, I was actually going to speak in Article 38, we had a amendment motion on Article 38, and that amendment was an arrangement of the judges' right to unionize, but we didn't have that opportunity on the grounds that the new substance was violated. Now, I especially want to stress that we always express the independence of the judiciary, independent judgment. In order for us to call it independent judgment in a country, judges have to be independent, they have to be free. If judges are not free, there is no way that the judiciary can make independent decisions in that country. Therefore, we wanted to include in this process a freedom, especially from the freedom of the judges to organize, and especially from the freedom of anyone, without being pressured, without being able to make a decision of conscience and freedom of rights so that they could look for their own subjects, but unfortunately, we didn't find the possibility here. But it's still not too late, if the Commission wants it, if the government wants it, even more red tape, because they're the ones who make the law, they're the ones who... And if you come back here, you'd better, you know, do it by turning on each other... and I'm speaking to you, and I have to make a suggestion that you'll understand, so I'm on the stand.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0590par0860	You're right.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0589par0861	Therefore, my dear friends, this is the most basic right, and judges have the freedom to organize. It's in the United Nations Decision, it's in the ILO, it's in the European Social Condition. And also in the process, the Judiciary-Sen-Senun Union, organized in this country, went through a closure process. Of course, they went to the ECHR. I believe that decision will return from there. Let's fix those decisions here before we transfer them somewhere else. Let's build here a system where by will, judges can make free decisions, and their rights can be used. Now is the time, and I would like to renew such a request in order for Turkey to reach a real law. Another important issue, my dear friends, is that many of my friends have made an emphasis on each area, and I am the volunteer deputy in charge of Kastamon. Look, there's a county called Tazzeytin. Courthouse in the District of Forkzeytin...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0591par0863	I studied the 2nd and 3th grade in Çallebitin, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0589par0864	Yeah. The court for Çatalzeytin district has been connected to the district of Sinop. And Abana, and Bozkurt, and Inebolu, and Daday, were bound unto the center. Thus, such different counties have been faced with a judicial procedure that has even been taken out of the province. As a result, I say that if we want independent judgment, let's make judges independent first, and I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0592par0868	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0593par0872	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0592par0873	You want roll call, over. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tanay, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Öner, Mr. Cierdar, Mr. Acar, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Editoglu, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Fırat, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Öğt, Mr. Erdoğdu. We're starting roll call. I'll give you a minute. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 45th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on the 46th article, which I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 46th draft of the 778-row bill in session. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Attila Kart Mevlüt Dudu Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turgut Dibek Flood Köse Ali Özgündüz Gürkut Acar Ilhan Cihaner Mahmut Tanal Sezgin Tanıkulu Article 46 - 2575 has been changed in Article 61 of the Court of Appeal (1) and (3) as follows: ▪ 1. Prosecutors report in their cases as the first-degree court and appeals by the District Attorney's Office that they will fully and unbiasedly consider appropriate assessments of the issues and rules of law that need to be resolved in the case, with their grounds in writing within a month. Prosecutors also make a written statement in two days at the latest about the requests for a halt in the prosecution's first-degree trial as a first-degree court. If these times are to be passed, the situation must be reported to the State's Attorney General, along with its reasons. Prosecutors carry out other tasks given by the Chief Prosecutor and the Attorney General; they follow the measures taken by the Prosecutor's Office to preserve the working order and increase job efficiency." Three. If the case is deemed necessary by the agencies, prosecutors also express their opinions and opinions verbally with their assessments, provided they are informed beforehand. However, they cannot participate in the discussion of the file and decision." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 46th edition of the 177th Amendment. We provide and propose that the clause be removed from the text. Faruk Bal Oktay Vural Muharrem Varlı Do you agree with the motion to read the commission?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0594par0908	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0592par0909	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0595par0910	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0596par0911	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0592par0912	I'm reading the reason: Article number 2575 is 61 of the Court of Appeals Act. Under amendments to the clause, the current regulation for the prosecutors to submit an opinion on every case that comes to the District Attorney's Office has been changed only in cases in which the State has taken the first-degree court, and only in which the prosecutors will make a statement on the basis of the case, reducing the type and number of files to which the prosecutors will state their opinion. The envisioned arrangement limits the positions of prosecutors serving in the District of State. The change is allegedly intended to ensure that the trial in the State Department ends faster. But the truth is, the prosecutors of the court don't have any savings. The file at the D.A.'s office is in the court of law. It is also clear that due to the written nature of the administrative judicial procedure, it is important that the documents and information related to the case be examined and discussed by as many people and individuals as possible, and that it is important for a fair trial to take place. Therefore, the predicted change is far from fulfilling the expected goal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 46th draft of the 778-row bill in session. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Ali Ihsan Kokturk (Zonguldak) and his friends Article 46 - 2575 of Article 61 of the Court's Law has been changed in the following way. ▪ 1. Prosecutors report in their cases as the first-degree court and appeals by the District Attorney's Office that they will fully and unbiasedly consider appropriate assessments of the issues and rules of law that need to be resolved in the case, with their grounds in writing within a month. Prosecutors also make a written statement in two days at the latest about the requests for a halt in the prosecution's first-degree trial as a first-degree court. If these times are to be passed, the situation must be reported to the State's Attorney General, along with its reasons. Prosecutors carry out other tasks given by the Chief Prosecutor and the Attorney General; they follow the measures taken by the Prosecutor's Office to preserve the working order and increase job efficiency." Three. If the case is deemed necessary by the agencies, prosecutors also express their opinions and opinions verbally with their assessments, provided they are informed beforehand. However, they cannot participate in the discussion of the file and decision." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0597par0930	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0592par0931	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0598par0932	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0592par0933	Mr. Kokturk, let them come in.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0599par0935	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have been promised to discuss the motion on Article 46 of the proposed bill. Once again tonight, I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, as we all know, the Republic of Turkey is a state of law according to Article 2 of our Constitution. Again, as we all know, the rule of law as well as those who run the state by its simplest definition is a government understanding, a government that is subject to law. In this sense, the audit of the administration's actions and actions, the protection of the rights of the individual, the citizens, and, based on these facts, ensuring that the state administration, political power remain within the legal limits is fundamental, essential to the state of law. The aim of the administrative judiciary is to oversee the administration's operations and actions and try to ensure that the administration remains within the legal limits. Dear lawmakers, when we look at it in this sense, I mean, both for the purposes of the state of law and administrative judiciary, as a reform package, the bill brought to the General Assembly's agenda should serve these purposes. So the bill that we're discussing tonight, the regulations for the administrative judiciary, should be the regulations that have brought the quality of judicial judgment to a high-quality point, not to weaken the administrative judiciary. However, as Mr. Alim Izwar has just stated, the Court of Prosecutors' Office is narrowing its mandate, restricting its duties, as the Prosecutor's Office bypasses its duties. Dear friends, this bill does so by hiding behind the grounds for speeding up the judiciary and reducing the State's workload. When we look at the prosecution, files wait a month at the State's Attorney's Office, but files that wait a month at the State's Attorney's Office wait three years to examine the apartment they were sent to. So, the case review of prosecutors' cases takes only a month, but the files from the State's Attorney's Office have to wait more than three years to study them and then wait to be examined. Now, dear friends, then it turns out that this is not the purpose of speeding up the judiciary or the purpose of reducing the workload in the State Department, a purpose that reflects the truth. From here, it is possible to conclude that if you allow the office of the prosecutors of the State to participate in cases where the State is only in the first degree as a court, if you are prevented from receiving the opinion of prosecutors of the District Attorney's Office, then you do not want the administration to be audited as necessary, as necessary. So you don't want to provide the necessary quality of the administration's unjust transactions and actions under judicial supervision, and you don't even want to be granted a court of law due to the duties of prosecutors to form a court union. Dear friends, therefore, it is evident that the purpose of the bill's 46th and 45th clauses is not to be fulfilled in the cause of the bill, but to be incompatible with its purposes, not with the aim of accelerating the judiciary, but, contrary to the fact that the basic conditions of the legal state are not controlled as required by the operations and actions of the rule of law, but that it is the purpose of a distant judicial understanding to take place in the legal system. We therefore submit our amendment proposal to Article 46 to the General Assembly agenda and ask for the acceptance of our motion.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0600par0946	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 46th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 46th article has been accepted. There are two motions of the same nature above the interim article 24 of Article 47: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to ask that the 278 Term Numbered Bill, which has been discussed, be removed from the proposal text of the interim 24th Article, which is based on 47. The signatures of the other motion are: Faruk Bal Oktay Vural Muharrem Varlı Ali Öz Alim Iklam Yusuf Halaçoğlu Does the commission agree with two proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0601par0960	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0600par0961	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0602par0962	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0600par0963	Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0603par0965	Reverend President, esteemed MPs, first of all, I salute you all. I have made a pledge to remove the 47th article of the Law Bill 278 rows that are being discussed from the text. As we all know, on May 10, 1868, the State of Turkey served as the continuation of Sultan Abdulaziz. These are the duties of the State, which were issued at that time: of course, as everyone knows, every law is born of a need, and without need, there is no law. In the Ottoman State, especially in the field of study and consultation of laws and regulations, again in the field of resolving the problems between the state and the people, the government and its problems with the government, the administration at the time. This court continued until 1922. In 1927, he was renegotiated and received an important amendment in 1961. Here's a clause to protect their independence against the independence of courts and judges. Today, when we look at the Prosecutor's Law -- which is the latest change in 25/02/2011 -- think of a law that, despite the fact that it's been a year, has changed its laws -- what's interesting is 25 temporary substances. Today, 2 more temporary substances are available, and 27 other interim substances are considered to be run. Dear lawmakers, here now, of course, is a very important burden on those who run justice, especially the Minister of Justice. This burden is a little more important than what you're burdened with. But unfortunately, how right is it that a ministry of this kind, who wants to do justice with temporary materials, is trying to run a law with temporary substances, with temporary materials? But, let me make this very clear, sir, the issue of who identified these members in the creation of the administrative court boards doesn't matter very much, if you want to know the truth. So it doesn't matter: there was a clause that I mentioned here when the Law on Ataturk Culture, Language and History was introduced. If the meeting of a scientific board is at the request of the Council of Ministers, and the decisions made here are published in the Official Gazette, it is not possible to call it the Council of Information. In the same way, do you think, like the State -- the way I just said -- how right would it be to have members of an executive court on a broader platform, directly elected by the board of presidents instead of the general council, to solve the problems between the government and the public or the judiciary or the law? Because, if you're going to politicize the law, the result, unfortunately, is justice is the foundation of property, you're going to take down the system we see everywhere. What is your property? Your property is not your property, it is the state, it is the country of the state, it is the nation of the state. You are the foundation of justice. When you do not rule the country of the state and the nation of the state with justice, the result is the loss of the state, the loss of the people. In this regard, we want this clause to be corrected, removed, and we ask that no law be passed on temporary substances. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0604par0976	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Young, here's the other motion.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0605par0979	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment on the motion to remove the interim 24th article under Article 47 of Bill and Proposal 278 from the draft text. It is brought to you by this article: You know, the Court of State is formed from 15 apartments, including the administrative office, 14 of which is the prosecutor's office, and the Board of Executive Prosecutors is very large, from each apartment -- former -- a board of apartment heads and members. There's a point in keeping this board so large. The Court of Prosecutors' Offices is more concerned with legal proceedings, the government's procedures. Since they are looking at very important cases, the principle of making a decision based on a very broad turnout is a system brought here to resolve legal discrepancies by discussing more healthy, more healthy cases. But in your power, look, this decision of the State has changed once in the 2nd month of 2011, and on 8/8/2011, you issued a decree of 650, which has changed, and now you're changing it again. Don't you have a concept called intelligence, Islan, in your government? I don't know where they are now. Yeah, well, at least a year ago, you'd argue over a law, and then you'd bring it back, and then you'd have to come up with a new draft, you know, every once in a while. This is a mockery of the House. Of course, whatever they do, you will raise your finger to them, even if they come to you tomorrow, even if they come to you with punishment. They made you into such a toy, playing with you. In that sense, they're playing with you, but we see the damage. In that sense, now, friends, when the case offices used to be so broad, you're making a lot of changes in the State Court's Law, you're reducing this Council of State to 20 people, you're making enough meetings for 15 people, and you're deciding with 8 people. The State's only office consists of one president, nine members, and if he decides with those nine members, he decides with a greater turnout than the Executive Court Offices Board. In that sense, it means nothing; the Executive Court of Appeals is actually out of the way, and the way of those truly respectable decisions that are expected from the Executive Court of Appeals is out of the way. Now, how will he do it, and what will the High Council of Judges do with this minister, this Sadullah? So, you know, the other day, they appointed Erdogan's aunt's son to the court. Who was that? He finished the imam-hat, then went to the Veteran Institute for four or two years, then became a general manager somewhere, a member of the State Department, and Mr. Abdullah appointed him. How many of them have he assigned to the State? What's he gonna do with them? He will appoint those who do not understand the law, who have no legal knowledge.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0606par0982	You went in, you weren't a lawyer.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0605par0983	After that, consider the nature of the decisions that will come out of this committee. I mean, people with no legal knowledge, no rule of law, no legal experience, executive court offices to be brought to court, and you're gonna have to expect them to make a healthy decision.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0606par0984	You did it, you weren't a lawyer, and you did it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0605par0985	Don't talk about what you don't understand, my friend. You don't know about that.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0607par0986	Get on with your work, get on with your work!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0605par0987	Don't talk about what you don't understand. I know it here. Now, for him...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0608par0988	You did the same thing, you did the same job.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0605par0989	So, your goal here is to destroy Turkey.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0609par0990	You'll save him!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0605par0991	In order to destroy Turkey, you want to destroy its institutions in the first place. Here's the simplest, Constitutional Court. Is there any such thing as the Constitutional Court? No. I don't want the Republican People's Party to go to the Constitutional Court any longer because there is no Constitutional Court because there is no institution in Turkey that will actually represent that office, because there is no institution in Turkey that will protect the legal system because it is acting on the orders of Recep Tayyip Erdoğan.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0610par0992	When you do it, there's nothing, when someone else does it...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0605par0993	Now, the other day, I went to visit Ahmet Efendi, the robed one, in prison. He says, "Ya, this Fethullah is trying to create a new religion from the Gospel and from the Torah. I took these off, they held me, they locked me up. Here, look, this is the system you brought to the trial in Turkey. Yeah, you should be crying instead of laughing, you should be ashamed. Today, people are being taken to an innocent place for four years and five years. Look, I can't do this. I just told you, in this Lighthouse case, did Recep Tayyip Erdogan bag or not? If he's deaf, let the government answer us. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Did he actually bag or not, did he pack or not, did the money come or not?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0611par0998	Don't be dirty!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0605par0999	We are, aren't you ashamed? Get out of here and answer me!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0611par1001	Don't be dirty!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0612par1002	Mr. Young, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0613par1003	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0612par1004	I'm going to put the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, the motions are rejected. I submit to your votes the interim clause of Article 47: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the interim Article 25 of Article 47, which I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to replace Article 2575 of Interim Article 2575 (2), which is added to the Law under Article 35, Article 47 of the Law Bill 278, which is currently in session. Ali Riza Özturk Sezgin Tanrıkulu Ali İhsan Kokturk Mevlüt Dudu Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ilhan Cihaner Attila Kart Ali Özgündün Mahmoud Tanal Flood Köse Gürkut Acar (2) Sent to the State's Attorney's Office for Thoughts, but sent back to the relevant prosecution or the Kurula, with no comment on whether or not they want to be stopped before the day this law is in effect. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0614par1022	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0612par1023	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0615par1024	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0616par1025	Mr. Ali Haydar Proposes.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0612par1026	Mr. Öner, Isparta MP.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0617par1028	Mr. President, good lawmakers, due to the fact that we're at the end of the legislature, there are proposals for the law, some for the law, some for the bill. But as far as we can see, the opposition parties work, the ruling parties come in and out of the General Assembly from time to time, just participate as a voting machine, they're here without carving.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0618par1029	Work, and so will you!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0617par1030	CHP members, MP members, our fellow members from other parties are working, bringing motions, trying to mature the law.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0619par1031	BDP is not the other party. Name it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0617par1032	Many AKP MP friends of ours come running through the door and look at someone's sign without understanding the substance content, raise their hand and download it. That's no kind of legislature work, fellas. So if we're doing a legislature study, if we want to be worthy of the people's gratitude, let's go ahead and vote the way we understand, the way we know it; let's not vote by holding our own will under my jurisdiction, depending on someone's will. There's going to be a change in the law. What's gonna change? It will lead to new irregularities, new gates of rant, new injustices will be created. Now, with our motion, we want to make it fast, but with speed, there has to be health, health, and justice. How much justice has the legislature been serving lately? What court order is acting against the government's will? The Chief Public Prosecutor, who is obliged to oversee the decisions of the government, the decisions of the administration, is the director of the Prime Minister! Yes, the presidency says it's a good system. So that's the assumption of the Chief Prosecutor? Or don't stop like that, the government does what it wants. What's the reason for the prosecution's presence? Can a Chief Public Prosecutor take a stand contrary to the cause of the State's presence? He's going to Bahşşehir University, defending defence without a lawyer. This is the Chief Prosecutor, my friends! So there's no understanding of the promise. Ali Bayramoğlu, a writer close to the IKtidara, says, in his article, he'll probably write even worse tomorrow: "Interviews, incredible indictments, arbitrary evidence, interjudicial decisions that force the law, GERMs and private prosecutors over time became legal and political problems centers with arbitrary practices." They acted against the law when the authority was used. They acted with lack of hardware, class anger, and political tendencies. The extortions of rights and freedoms have been made by law, by judgment. How much satisfaction do you find in living in a country like this? WHAT will change, and what will change? His name will be changed, his essence will remain. His name will be changed, until the old trials, the old lawless, come to an end. Isn't that letting go of injustice? Last week, I watched the Silivri courts and the trials, and I visited Mr. Balbay, and I visited Haberal, our friends who were deprived of their freedoms, who were unable to exercise their rights, and who were unable to contribute. Just them? People can't sue because of the height of tuition. When he couldn't press charges, he closed the gates of the judicial court and moved to other counties. 146 courts have been closed, 44 have been opened. Under whose orders? On whose orders? I thought you said the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors was independent, no influence at all. Who's fooling who with what, fellas? So it wasn't enough to fool all these people, the great Turkish nation? I invite Mr. Minister of Justice and his judicial bodies to justice, not to cause any new irregularities, and I give all of you my regards.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0620par1039	Mr. Proposal, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the interim clause of Article 47: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 48, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 48th edition of the current Bill of the 278 Rows. Article 1 of the article. After the word "third" in his joke, we propose and propose that the word "fourth" be removed from the text of the law. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Bkent Tezcan Mahmut Tanal There's another motion I'm having read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 48 of the 278 Numbered Law Proposal. We request that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Scholar Light Oktay Özturk Oktay Vural Emin Haluk Ayhan Nevzat Don't be afraid
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0621par1058	Mr. President, I don't think this reading has been distributed, we don't.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0620par1059	Right now, he came while I was having him read it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0621par1060	Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0620par1061	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0621par1062	So if you'd give me a chance to examine it, sir...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0622par1063	You will distribute the motion, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0620par1064	Sir?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0622par1065	He wants the motion distributed.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0623par1066	So the motion hasn't been distributed, so there's no way to evaluate it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0624par1067	Take five, sir, and have them review the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0625par1068	Mr. President, the motion has been read.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0626par1069	Is reading a motion that's been read that hasn't been distributed?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0627par1070	He's got motive, he's got something.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0628par1071	What are you going to study?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0629par1072	Sir, he basically wants the substance removed from the law.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0627par1073	But we're wondering why, sir. For what reason do they want to remove it?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0630par1074	The reading of the undistributed motion is not enough. The motion is first distributed.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0629par1075	However, if it comes on time, it will be distributed. He came after he read it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0630par1076	He's on time, sir, on time.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0629par1077	Here you go, sir. Make a copy and we'll distribute it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0631par1078	Mr. President, you're going fast, so we can't grow it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0630par1079	Speed is a disaster, Mr. President, speed is a disaster. We'll have more surprises. No one can limit our right to make a motion.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit03spe0629par1080	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0629par0001	I'm opening the Fifth Session of the 128th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of İzmir MP Oktay Vural and his friends' motion was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. There's enough to make a decision. We will continue the talks of Bill 278. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 48th edition of the current Bill of the 278 Rows. Article 1 of the article. After the word "third" in his joke, we propose and propose that the word "fourth" be removed from the text of the law. Turgut Dibek and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0632par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0629par0014	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0633par0015	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0629par0016	Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0634par0017	Thank you, Mayor. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, when you say reform in the judiciary, you mean reform in the judiciary. Yes, there are improvements in the Executive Bankruptcy Act, but along with the Law on Disposals, the main problem is the vans of the Enforcement of Justice Foundation, which is crucial when they go to foreclosures, a major problem. This has never been mentioned, and I'd like to at least draw your attention to it. Dear lawmakers, the person who drives his livelihood -- his livelihood -- can only drive a commercial taxi in the city. In our law, the description of a commercial taxi is called a commercial taxi, including the driver. With that definition, the entire vehicle run by the Justice Association across Turkey will be registered to a truck; they even corrected some of it, and they made a van. So when you go foreclosure, you get 10 lawyers in a van, 10 people in foreclosure. Now, when 10 men go to the foreclosure, in my hands... they're going from Kadiköy to Ataşehir. If we take a commercial taxi between Kadıköy and Ataşehir, the maximum price will be $20, valued MPs. However, the receipt I have is at 100 TL between Ataşehir and Kadıköy.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0635par0022	Copperville-Ataşehir...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0634par0023	Sir, Ataşehir... how could you read between Ataşehir and Kadiköy? What gave you the idea of Copperville? I mean, I'd really appreciate it if we could have a little decency. Two: Now, in the same way, what could commercial taxis be? The commercial taxi, which works in Istanbul, should have a license plate. What was in the legislation here last week? The pirate taxi was gone. What's a pirate cab? If he doesn't work in that city and works in another city, it's called piracy. I'm reading the license plate number 06 DF 8898 from Kadiköy to Ataşehir. This, my dear Minister, is piracy. The second incident, again, is to go from Kadıköy to Fashion. Between Kadıköy and Fashion -- our fellow MPs from the first district -- the maximum distance there is $7.5 or $10, which says, Again, license plate 06 DF 8911. What is this vehicle? Pirate cabbies again. In the same way, there's more than one example like this. First, there was this law on piracy taxi drivers from Parliament. First of all, there are decisions made by the Justice Department, even by the Justice Commission, which is chaired by the D.A.'s office. Like where? For example, I have a decision from the Chief Justice Commission of the Administration of the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office of Adana. Decision: the total travel and arrival distance for the destination is $3 per mile, the waiting fee for the first 15 minutes is free, $10 for the next half hour, $20 for the 30 minutes, $20 for the nearest distance. What's the point here? If, indeed, the execution is supposed to be economical, if we want to prevent the debtor from bringing a different burden, what should we do with the Foundation for Enforcement of Justice? 1) You need to put on a meter. 2) If he's working in the city, he has to get the commercial license plate of that city. 3) What does this also do when we have to? It also prevents unfair competition, and your entrepreneur restricts the freedom to work. Well, can this be removed? This can be removed. There are 18,000 commercial taxis in Istanbul, 10,000 commercial taxis in Ankara. In this way, we take away his labor, his labor, his labor, and our dedication to a foundation. From my Ministry... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd appreciate it if, in the interest of giving this opportunity to people who make a living in commercial taxis, at least, the measures would be taken in a more orderly manner. My regards to you all, and good evening.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0636par0033	Mr. Tanal, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 48th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 48th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 49: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 49th draft of the 177th Amendment. Article 1. In its joke, we propose and propose that the declaration of the "Thirteen thousand Turkish liras" be changed to the form of "305,000 Turkish liras." Turgut Dibek Emre Bridged Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan İkturk Bkent Tezcan Forty-nine of the 278 Numbered Law Proposal. We request that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Ali Öz Seyfettin Yilmaz Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0637par0052	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0636par0053	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0638par0054	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0639par0055	Motive.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0636par0056	Read the reason. This arrangement aims to prevent the violation of the rule of law state. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 49th draft of the 177th Amendment. Article 1. In its joke, we propose and propose that the declaration of the "Thirteen thousand Turkish liras" be changed to the form of "305,000 Turkish liras." Emre Bridgelı (Tekırdağ) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0640par0065	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0636par0066	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0641par0067	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0636par0068	Mr. Bridge, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0642par0070	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to Article 49 of the bill, designed to change certain laws in order to enable the judiciary. I salute the General Assembly. Congressmans, this law brings a lot of changes and regulations in the field of private law and public law, but it is clear to us that the bill presented to the public as the 3rd Reform Package is unresolved from solving the problems of the judiciary. This bill, this package, does not answer any need for judicial reform. The fact that the package, which has not even reached the actual legalisation of the country, is presented as judicial reform or a quickenment of the judiciary, means that the AKP ruling openly mocks society. It is also interesting that since its arrival in power in 2002, the timing of the new package of justice has been set up as a form of governance, especially because of the number of prisoners climbing to 130,000 as a result of political investigations and lawsuits, and because of the length of their imprisonment period. It was remarkable that the Hrant Dink murder case was announced the day after a scandalous verdict. Apart from the timing of the package, the scope of the package, as did the decision in the murder of Hrant Dink, that there was no organisation in the verdict, is also a laughing matter. There are arrest warrants and lengths of detention at the top of pressing problems today, but there is no regulation for them in the bill, I'm afraid. Dear lawmakers, the length of long detentions is indeed the most public debated, the most busy topic on the agenda, but there are no provisions, such as the length of their long imprisonment period or the strain of their conditions, which have sparked criticism in the package of judicial reform. In the relevant part of the package, it is simply reminded of the judicial system, where courts must seek strong doubts for arrests known to have been known to have not been implemented in the existing law but not implemented for years, and also that the AKP has been known to have allowed to not be implemented. This is a situation that is clearly already in the law, and the name of recalling it is neither reform nor innovation. Dear lawmakers, there is no law against law enforcement. When such an arrangement occurs, it is clear that the laws of the state have not been enforced in the state administration from 2002 until now, nor have the laws of the law been enforced. The purpose of this package is to shorten the trial period. But is it just a fair trial to shorten the trial, to speed up the trial? The answer to that is obvious, no. I'm not just saying this law that's brought here to the House of Nations, it's broader, and I'm saying for all the laws, it's clearly the work that's been done to convert them, to change them, to target them. I'm afraid that's the main criteria for bringing in the law. Now, private courts in the Republic of Turkey are a major problem. Arrests and arrest warrants are a big problem. In the detention hearing, the right processing of criminal judgment was no longer a temporary measure to ensure its goal, but it became an arrangement aimed at pre-judicial punishment and pre-judgment. Now, this big problem is that by scratching the bottom of this problem, apply the law, look for the conditions: it cannot be solved by saying: "Observe. " The solution, he says, is clearly that the people who have this will will be able to make it concrete and physically bring these arrangements to the House and have them passed through the House with a consensus, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0643par0081	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 49th article: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 49th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 50: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 50 on the current bill of law number 278. Article 1. In its joke, we propose and propose that the Turkish Republic ID number of real people be changed into the Turkish Republic ID number of real people. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Bkent Tezcan Attila Kart To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the declaration be added only in matters relating to the relevant case file. Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat Erol Dora Fair Wolf Ibrahim Rider Secret Sakık To the presidency of TBM, 50 of the 278 Numbered Law Proposal. We request that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Yusuf Halaçoğlu Ali Ali Öz
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0644par0107	We're withdrawing our motion.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0643par0108	The motion has been withdrawn. Commission, do you agree with Pervin Buldan and his friends' motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0645par0110	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0643par0111	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0646par0112	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0643par0113	Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0647par0114	Mr. President, we're discussing the third judicial package, and we're talking. What can you think of when you say "judgment"? What would 75 million people answer a question? It's not just a trial process when you call it a trial; from detention, from police preparation to prosecution, from prosecution to court process, to arrest, to execution process, and to the execution process after the sentence -- they asked the citizens about the picture of Turkey in this integrity, a question, a survey, and many pollers have already done a study on it. One is that long imprisonment is unacceptable. 2) The extraordinary courts are unacceptable. There is no freedom of thought and organization. They create organizational membership from post, banners, eggs, everything, and they're being punished. They're complaining that the trial process is taking too long. Trials are being thrown out for three or four months in detention cases. Now, when you put all this stuff back to back... It is said that the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations does not work - although it has been taken out. There are examples of abuse, which are said to be zero tolerances, but the torture is still going on. And we're going to look at all of this as the problems we're going to have in the judicial package. No freedom of the press. We have the most journalists under arrest for freedom of the press. Lawyers are being arrested for their duties. We have the most lawyers under arrest. The journalist is under arrest, the lawyer is under arrest, the MP is under arrest, the mayor is under arrest, everyone involved in democratic politics is under arrest. So, here, what very concrete steps can we take in the 4th judicial package, behind the very concrete, 3rd Judgement Package? We've been looking at it since 2000, especially since the 2001 National Programme, when the commitments to the National Programme were approved in this Parliament, and the coalition governments signed it. They need to take care of it, now, since it's being signed. Following that, the Accession Partnership Document comes, followed by Parliament changing the 90th article of the Constitution in 94, and is said to be above internal law. So, I ask you, are special prosecutors, judges, courts above the Constitution? If not, why don't they apply the 90th article? Why don't judges, judges, prosecutors who don't comply with the procedure have any authority? Actually, there are a lot of things that need to be discussed here. In the press crimes, in the process of the children's trial, from the Children's Rights Convention to the European Court of Human Rights decisions, everyone has a homework assignment. Right now, the government has a homework assignment in front of it. The government has the October Progress Report ahead of them, folks. Let's be clear. The October Progress Report has two important titles, one of which concerns the 23rd chapter, the judiciary, and justice directly; one of which concerns the 24th chapter, the law of freedom and security. Now, we're looking at the calendar that we have on this process, where none of the promises made in 2004 have been fulfilled, and we're in 2012. Now, that's the problem. We have to do these obligations not because the European Union wants us to, but because our citizens want us to, and we have to do them for this country's democratisation, for peace, for the solution to problems, for a talking Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's the whole point. I think it would be more useful if we could discuss the truth, or you'd be five hours late, so that's it, so it doesn't change much.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0648par0126	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 50 on the current bill of law number 278. Article 1. In its joke, we propose and propose that the Turkish Republic ID number of real people be changed into the Turkish Republic ID number of real people. Turgut Dibek and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0649par0133	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0648par0134	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0650par0135	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0651par0136	Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0648par0137	Mr. Serindağ, please, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0652par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. We started working today at twelve, and now the next day, it's 1:30; it's 13 and a half hours. You know as well as I do that there's no efficiency or nothing to be done with this kind of work. Now, come on, let's get this House working in order, do what our citizens expect us to do. Why did our citizens send us here?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0653par0142	To work.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0652par0143	He sent me to work, you're telling the truth, but to efficient work. You work hard, but you don't achieve efficiency. Efficiency is the main thing. That's why we have, you know, the center. Therefore, we must not ignore efficiency in any way. Dear friends, we've told you now, at the last meeting, we have fellow bureaucrats, who say: "All laws are considered to be like this in the world." Now, the text is not read, the text is not read, the text is not read, those who don't accept it say, "Mr. President, after that we lift our finger or lift our finger, and that text becomes legal. However, the Great National Assembly of Turkey is tasked with drafting law in accordance with the law enforcement technique, and if it did so, we would be much more useful to those who came after us. Now, our suggestion, my dear friends, is a truly appropriate suggestion. We would like a Turkish citizen to have a real identity number. So, we think that our proposal is reasonable, that it's more legal, and we expect you to accept it. Now it's administrative jurisdiction. We have, you know, the Supreme Court of State, my dear friends. The prosecutor's office has been an example to all administrative judges and enforcers with decisions or decisions he's made so far, but I'd like to bring to your attention some of the events that have been taking place in court in recent years. Now we have a Mr. President, Mr. Chief Prosecutor, who's going to conferences in various places, who's gone to a conference at the University of TOBB, and a student asks: "Our freedoms are being restricted, our phones are being tapped, what do you think of them?" Mr. President says, "My phones are tapped, too. I'm relaxed. Why? Because everyone's resting. Now they're bringing a car to the door, resting until your bedroom. Don't worry, cell phones won't hurt. My dear friends, these are not the words the Chief Prosecutor would say, and it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Hopefully, it won't happen someday. So you do now. If that's what the Chief Prosecutor is saying, then it's up to us to stay on top of it, and it's up to us, politicians, to eliminate this environment. What else happened at the court? A lot's happened, so I'll give you an example or two. Now, there's been a shift between their apartments among the members of the Court. It's never been seen before. When a new member was appointed to the prosecution, of course, it would be distributed to the apartments according to the need of the apartment, but it would be as if the officer had assigned it from that apartment to the other apartment, from that apartment to that apartment to the other apartment, that higher judges wouldn't change, that's not going to happen. What do you want to do with it? With this, the structure of the circles is wanted to be replaced. Before the end of my term, I would also like to point out to you, my dear friends, that there has been a lot of talk lately about the death of our late President, Turgut Özal. Now, the state, my dear friends, needs to be free of this shame, so no one should attempt to make a run for it, so the State Board's report needs to be taken into Naziritia. The family said, "This is not what the public prosecutors have to report. The state of the Republic of Turkey should not be accused of poisoning or killing a President. Therefore, my dear friends, the Republican prosecutors must act immediately, investigate this matter, be bound by a consequence, and be allowed to be taken off the agenda. Otherwise, someone goes on TV and says, "Well, somebody says that the state is always under indictment, and government officials are always accused." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This has got to stop, and this has got to get out of the way, my dear friends. Yes, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0654par0156	Mr. Serindağ, thank you very much, sir. III-Y O K L A M A
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0655par0159	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0654par0160	You want roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Firat, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Öner, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Young, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Değirmencioğlu, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Önüt, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Özturk. We'll do a roll call with the device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 50th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 50th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 51st article of the same nature, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 51st of the Common Law Bill 278. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Bulent Tezcan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Atilla Kart The signatures of the other motion are: Scholar Light Ali Öz Oktay Ozturk Do you agree with the two motions of the same nature, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0656par0186	We don't agree with either motion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0654par0187	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0657par0188	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0654par0189	The motion holders...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0658par0190	Mr. Ali Sarıbas will speak.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0654par0191	Mr. Yellowhead, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0659par0193	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, good morning to you all. Starting yesterday, starting at 12:00, now at 02. We bring such a system of work in Turkey's important laws, in its important laws, if we pay attention to elections since June 12th, in a year's time, when they've been going on at 00, so uninterrupted, not in any part of the world, for 14 hours, and in fact, since 12th June. If we look at all the public opinion and the draft and texts of Turkey's future, the National Education Act is quickly coming to our attention, including the important articles of the bag law that we discussed the other day, the important clauses of the OSCE Undersecretary, and all the articles concerning the judiciary that really concerns all public opinion today, such as the late-night operation of the Republic of Turkey. Everyone around the world has a thought, focus, and efficiency, but I don't think the goal is to make a healthy law and make a living. The goal is to make sure that the public is sleeping these laws, or that all of us, especially by bringing them up on weekends, where televisions don't work, is to make public information, and to that end, what's really important is that Turkey's issues of legislation and contract and all of its relevant issues are to do in the middle of the night with an operation like this.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0660par0196	The City of Bells.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0659par0197	First be the President, then talk. My dear friends, in such understanding now, there is no chance that a law from this House will come true in its efficiency. Now, let me try to tell you about Çanakkale. Since the June 12th elections, I'm really going to try to tell Çanakkale the look of this government a little bit, not a script, but something that happened. I don't know how carefully you can listen at this hour.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0661par0201	Come to the bell, to the bell. Tell me about the bell.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0662par0202	The City of Bells, the City of Bells.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0663par0203	Guys, let's hear it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0664par0204	Look, you've shut down the forest district manager's office in a region where 52% of Turkey is forest. Really...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0665par0205	We're not closed, Mr. Ali.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0664par0206	You're closed. Listen. Again, during this period... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Well, listen and learn. Again, you have shut down the District Manager of the Undersecretary of Maritime again this year. Again, I continue, you've removed the Foundations Regional Manager from here, indeed. And again, again, in the perspective of the province of Çanakkale, in fact, again, that you met tonight, but the judiciary really... as I said earlier, you closed down two of Turkey's most important islands, and again, in the Gallipoli Peninsula, in fact, you closed down the courthouse agencies. Look, one of the most important things is: you know, there's a place where there's a town that doesn't have villages; there's a district that doesn't have villages; that's in Bozcaada. In Bozcaada, there is a police force. In Bozcaada, there are all the agencies. But at the time of the AKP government, I see now that the courthouse is closed where there are health problems, transportation problems, unresolved, twice a day, where there are ships.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0666par0213	Come to the item, to the substance.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0664par0214	Now, again, if we look in the criteria here, how are these people really going to call justice and law on one of two of our islands, which is actually, in private status, which is not in our administrative structure today?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0667par0215	What was the motion, the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0664par0217	Now, here I come again, in the Gallipoli Peninsula in Eceabat...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0667par0219	What was the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0664par0220	Again, in Eceabat district of Gallipoli administration, none of the criteria the Minister has said are valid. You said 800 files, over 500 files, 800 files.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0668par0221	Mr. Yellowhead, your time is up, sir. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0664par0223	Again, you've brought 5,000 population criteria within the population criteria, with a population of 7,500.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0668par0224	Mr. Yellowhead, your time is up, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0664par0225	Again, here, in a place that really is the sea, where it's hard to get access...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0669par0227	Mr. President, time's up.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0668par0228	I'm yelling, what am I supposed to do? For God's sake! You yell, and I'll scream. Mr. Yellowhead, your time is up, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0670par0231	We're listening, sir. We're listening.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0671par0232	Sir, we're listening with interest, go ahead, Mr. Ali.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0672par0233	Dear friends, you're turning this place into a theater, it's not a middle game... please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0673par0234	Who will speak on the other motion, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0674par0235	Can you call someone while the preacher's on the stand?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0673par0236	He's out of time, what do we do?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0674par0237	Do you mind if Mr. Sadik sits next to you in your seat?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0673par0238	Mr. Yellowhead, your time is up, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0675par0239	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0673par0241	Mr. Yilmaz, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0676par0243	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding Article 51 of Law Bill 278, which is being discussed. I salute you all. The attention and careful consideration of the legislation, which has been discussed today in the face of the painting, which has recently been introduced as a judicial package by political power, and one law after another, requires all aspects of its impact on social life. Yes, valuable lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party has been following policies that do not agree with each other at the point of implementing what policies during the ten-year process in which it governs the country. Now, in the fight against terrorism, before the elections, you were implementing agreements in the wake of talks with the terrorist organization, with ceasefires being declared. You all know that when our president first voiced the Oslo talks, as today, the Oslo talks were persistently rejected. In fact, the statement that I was not able to say from here was expressed by Mr. Prime Minister as "if it was not proven," but was later said that when the talks of members of the terrorist organization, members of the MİT and the Prime Minister's special representative, Hakan Fidan (P.E.), it was said that these talks were made by the state, not by the government, and in the process following, there were some developments in Turkey. Here are some very serious operations against the terrorist organization, along with the KCK operations, which began to take place in Turkey. However, it has come up again recently, and the terrorist leader and the terrorist leader have been alleged to have been interviewed in Bursa, or there have been some talks. Now, as a result of these talks -- surely the government doesn't do it, the government does it -- is there a number of decisions being made as a result of these developments? -- I'd like to ask you now: as the ruling party, which brings special authorities courts to Turkey, in this country -- there is a struggle with terror, a number of forces over Turkey are being eliminated, military custody is being eliminated. What is going to happen now?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0677par0246	He's touching the Zulfüyara.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0676par0247	Now, I'm asking you from here: you're the one who said that the special authorities have done such important work, that you're the one who said that Turkey has opened its way. Yes, if it clears the way for Turkey, are these special-level courts so shameful that they can hide even from you lawmakers?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0678par0248	He's not hiding.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0676par0249	If he's not hiding, come and explain. What is it? Who knows what? Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bulent Arinc has made another statement...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0679par0250	The Minister doesn't know either.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0676par0251	...one MP makes another statement, another Deputy Prime Minister makes a statement.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0679par0252	Even the Commissioner doesn't know.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0676par0253	We're patient, but remember, we have to be transparent. Let's put our hand on our conscience, what happened today when special authorities ruled out custody over democracy in this country and said: What negotiations are there? There's no reason to keep these people waiting so that we can go to this motion in the 74th, 75th article. Go out, explain, argue. I claim that even your own deputies don't know, they don't know.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0679par0255	There's no courage in it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0676par0256	If they know, let them explain what you brought. Why don't you bring this into the bill when private court is so important?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0679par0257	They'll be scared! There's a crack in the Council of Ministers!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0676par0258	It's been spoken for a month, your Prime Minister says separately, Deputy Prime Minister says separately, MP, commissioners say separately. OKTAY VURAL - doesn't want coalitions... Why are we ashamed, what are we hiding?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0680par0261	It takes guts, heart!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0676par0262	Do you have promises to someone that we don't know about? The ones you walked with yesterday, you came to the point of stabbing them in the back today. Are you afraid to defend that? Now, look, I'm telling you very clearly, if we don't act sincerely... or I'll tell you this, the mute devil who is silent in the face of injustice. You can raise your hands today. Look, you do this in everything. Before the September 12th referendum, you read our Mustafa Pehlivanoglu's letter and made politics over the countries, but in the same way, you hurt the archipelagos, saying that they didn't even know about Fatiha.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0681par0266	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0676par0267	The people of the land know Fatiha, and the people of the land know Allah and His Messenger. We've come to say the cause of the world, we've come to the cause of the divine word, we've said the religion of the right religion is Islam. We know all of this, but no one has the right and the right to try to humiliate us by doing politics on these things, to offend the ulterior community. History will write down what people who did this today will do tomorrow. You can have a lot of votes today, you can sit in these seats today, but in the face of history, you're gonna have to pay for it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0682par0270	Mr. Yilmaz, thank you, sir, thank you. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 51st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 52: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 52 on the 778 Rows Numbered Legislature. Article 1 of the article. We offer and propose to the owner of the joke to be changed in the form of a request to the owner or deputy. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Bulent Tezcan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Atilla Kart To the presidency of TBM, It's number 278, number 52 of the Law Proposal. We request that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Ahmet Duran Bulut Ali Ali Ali Öz Do you agree with the last reading motion, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0683par0290	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0682par0291	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0684par0292	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0682par0293	Mr. Vural, who will speak?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0685par0294	Ahmet Duran Bulut will speak.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0682par0295	Ahmet Duran Bulut, please, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0686par0297	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are my second term MP. Since the 23rd term, I would like to point out that these laws, which the AKP government has often brought to such a recent time, have not been made healthy. Like justice, I say this must be determined in a healthy environment, in order to know that justice is as sacred as religion, and not to harm this sanctity. In Turkey... justice must be distributed in civilized societies by courts. If the courts don't have the trust of the people, of the citizens, everyone will try to maintain their own justice. In the 23rd term, after your government had taken power in the Turkish Penal Code, it changed and lifted the arrest for crimes that required imprisonment for up to two years and pave the way for many crimes. In particular, the environment for children, street children, terrorists, young children who were using terrorism has been set in motion. Now, justice can't be done, unfortunately, by making palaces, it can't be disbanded. Justice is not late when it is met on time, and if it is not delayed, it is appreciated. In the country, people need to be able to look for their rights wherever they can and where they can. In many places, the government does its own work by closing courts, closing courts. I was recently in Bayat district of Çorum. The people acted because the court was closed that day. By nightfall, the drums began to play. I'm from Piscesir, I don't know the custom. I asked him, "Do you have a wedding?" No, no, no, no, no, In Ankara, our mayor was working to open the courthouse. He sent word from there, and it was decided to reopen the courthouse, so we give good news to the people. I thought of Nasreddin Hoxha's lost donkey. In a region where Balıkesir had a population of more than 100,000 in the summer months, such as Balıkesir, Bala, Gömec, and Havran, and many police incidents took place and people had to seek justice. People will come to Ivrindi, a hundred and thirty miles [20-130 km] from Bali, and will spend nearly 1.5 million liras, and will expect justice from there. It's my belief that justice... people say: "You go, make your own justice. You complain about existing systems... so if someone comes to your door and insults you, if you go and complain about it, that person will come to your house before you. There is such injustice in the country, I'm afraid. It requires that, not by adapting someone's rules, someone's laws to this country, but by bringing them back to Parliament, the Ministry of Justice should be made healthy here. However, it is necessary to express the fact that the laws that have been randomly passed in the middle of the night, which have not given the opportunity to be evaluated by Parliament, to complete, to make things right, are not healthy. The prisons are a problem, the places whose names were previously punishment and correctional homes have now become punishment and detention homes. He's a prisoner in prison, he's a hero coming out, he's a mobster. They need to be evaluated in some way, change this mentality, and prepare healthy individuals for society. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I offer you the acceptance of our motion, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0687par0307	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 52nd of the current Bill of Law, 278 Rows. Article 1. We offer and propose to the owner of the joke to be changed to the owner of the request, or to his deputy. Turgut Dibek and his friends Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0688par0314	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0687par0315	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0689par0316	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0687par0317	Mr. Qadr Gökmen, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0690par0319	Mr. President, members of parliament, this is Article 2 of the 14th Article of Law 2577. I was going to talk to you about the lulu joke, but since there's no court to transfer the papers because of the courthouses you closed, I'd like to address other matters. Dear lawmakers, in the time I've been given, I'm going to try to draw up headlines on where Turkey has come from in the AKP administration. Turkey has suffered a lot of setbacks since the AKP came to power. Let us consider the important first ones of the AKP. Honourable lawmakers reached the highest levels of current history in Turkey for the first time during the AKP government. For the first time, convince the official who asked for a raise. For the first time, imports exceeded 240 billion dollars. Turkey has become the country that uses the world's most expensive gas. For the first time, the most important institutions in the history of the Republic were sold out through privatisation during the AKP era. Turkey's lifeline, Turk Telekom, has been sold to Oger. The communication sector has been taken over by foreigners. A Prime Minister said if the land is being sold, they're not taking it away, but the Oger family has raised its safe by selling land and real estate all over Turkey. See, the Istanbul Sea Bus enterprises, sold in April 2011, became a monopoly on the AKP's privatisation logic. The name of privatisation was pre-AKP competition, while the quality of service was robbery and looting with AKP. Haydarpaşa Station has been shut down step by step by step in an organized operation for an appetite-enhancing mobilizer. In 2002, there were 77 billion dollars in current 2011, which did not find $1 billion. During the republic you didn't like, all the Ottoman Empire's debts were paid by 1954, all the banks and factories you privatized were established. By 2002, the debt was 130 billion dollars, and at the end of 2011, it was 307 billion dollars. So you sold it, you sold it, and you owe 180 billion more. You had a minister who said, "I sell like a father." No wonder Sevda Hill opened up for the king of Saudis. Where's the $10 billion mentioned by your current Minister? Farmers and producers were victimized by the AKP. For the first time, a prime minister said to the farmer, "Take your mother with you." He said, "Let the earth feed your eyes." Nut makers held the largest rally in the history of the republic at AKP Power. Officers' salaries have melted by 30% in nine years. The number of jobs closed has reached the highest level in the last decade. In 2011, however, 435,500 businesses were locked on the door. Out of the four tradesmen, three hundred and twenty thousand went into debt. In a period of advanced democracy screaming, more than 100 journalists were in prison, pens trying to do their duty despite all kinds of pressure and censorship. Such a Turkey, as AKP put it, became a dream, a reality. The collection of unpublished books was a dream that the generals of an army, elected by the will of the public, were held behind bars, at least 500 high school and university students were arrested, and it was real. Locking up a student who opens a banner, charging a speech-impaired citizen with organization propaganda for 25 years, it was all a dream, it was real. Everyone who opposes the AKP has been united in Silivri, during the AKP, while the rest are in Metris. In the process of trial, the vengeful pens have executed many defendants over and over again. The operation, launched with a clean football guise and an unexplained reason for the public, has turned into a revenge game. Fenerbahçe was worn out beyond the bench by pens that were the victims of vengeful feelings. Remember, there was a man who was accused of being the vault of Ergenekon, Kuddusi Okrır. His funeral came out of the prison where he walked in. He had no money, the city paid for his funeral. What about terror? The issue, which the AKP ruling called the democratic opening, has given the separatist terrorist group PKK more courage than ever before. When the AKP came to power, terrorist attacks, which had almost zeroed, increased with a huge acceleration. The acts of terrorism were not limited only to southeast areas, but stretched west, particularly the Black Sea region. Thanks to the country. For the first time, military service is not a place to lie down. For the first time in Turkey, a minister said there is no harm in human health for the pepper gas that killed two people. If he was so harmless, why didn't he follow my call to test this pepper spray on himself? The entire courthouse is under police control. When will this type of control over justice be eliminated? I wish you all a good morning. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0691par0340	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 52nd article to your votes: those who do not accept... the 52nd article has been accepted. There are two motions on Article 53: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 53rd draft of the 778-tiered bill. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Ali Riza Özturk Sezgin Godkulu Turgut Dibek Tanju Özcan Ali İhsan Kokturk Mahmut Tanal Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Tuğul Köse Ali Özgündün İlhan Cihaner Gürkut Acar Mevlüt Dudu Article 53-2577 to Article 16 of the Law (6) follows after the joke. The joke has been added. The state's attorney's opinion on the main issue is to be notified by the State's Attorney's Office. The parties can report their written views within ten days of the notification. I'm having the second motion read: It's 53 of the 278 Numbered Law Proposal. We request that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Scholar Light Ali Öz Oktay Ozturk Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0692par0364	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0691par0365	The government?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0693par0366	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0694par0367	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0691par0368	I'm reading the reason: This arrangement aims to prevent the violation of the rule of law state.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0694par0371	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0691par0372	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0694par0374	Mr. President, from now on, I think there will be enough decisions because there are no oppositions, they're not represented on the Court.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0691par0375	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 39th draft of the 778-tiered bill. (Commission Text 53. Subsequently, we propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Tanju Özcan (Bolu) and his friends Article 53 - 2577, Article 16 of the Law (6), which follows after the joke. The joke has been added. The state's attorney's opinion on the main issue is to be notified by the State's Attorney's Office. The parties can report their written views within ten days of the notification. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0695par0382	We disagree, Reverend President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0691par0383	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0696par0384	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0691par0385	Mr. Tanju Özcan, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0697par0387	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I'd like to start by welcoming you with love and respect later tonight. Guys, we've been working really hard since Tuesday. In particular, I'm on duty on the Court this week, and I can clearly see the fatigue reflected in all of your faces. Right now, friends, I'm not saying this as an exaggeration...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0698par0390	There are 102 people, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0697par0391	At least five of our friends are asleep, and 15 of our friends are going to sleep at any moment...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0699par0392	Mr. President, your honor.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0697par0393	He's about to go to sleep any minute. Guys, what I'm trying to say is, of course, let's work hard, but let's make it efficient, and let's make sure that the work is right for its purpose. Look, guys, I don't know if you noticed anything. There's no clock in the General Assembly lounge. The Prime Minister didn't even put a watch in here so he wouldn't look up at the clock.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0700par0396	And what does the Prime Minister have to do with this?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0697par0397	You guys know where the clock can't be? The clock doesn't happen in casinos on purpose, not in the thought of people not looking at the clock. In that sense, I don't consider it a very good idea not to have this watch here.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0700par0398	You're on the Presidential Court...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0697par0399	Dear friends, as this law was discussed here, many of our fellow lawyers expressed their views. And as a friend of yours, I'd like to share some of my views on this law with you. Friends, we're discussing a law known publicly as a bill of judicial reform. However, in this bill of judicial reform, there is no regulation on current judicial members. Not a judge, not an arrangement for our prosecutors' rights, no financial rights, no regulations for our editors, no regulations for the executives, no regulations for our clerks, no regulations for the execution officers. In fact, a proposal just came in from the assistant administrative services class on the children of all of Turkey's poor families, to transfer it to general administrative services; well, you even refused. Now, friends, have you ever looked at the definition of the assistant service class? In the definition of the assistant service class, he talks about gardening services. Now, do you know what bailiffs do at the courthouse? The activities of the bailiffs in the courthouse are not the same as those of the assistant administrative services class that operates in other public sectors. I'm afraid you didn't even make that distinction. Friends, I regret to inform you that many of you have no opinion on the number 277 rows of legislation that are being discussed. Don't take this the wrong way. I also see that many of you haven't read it or paid attention. You didn't take the printed publication and read it. Most of you don't even know what we're talking about here. I'm sorry to say.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0701par0404	Look, it's here; it's not read?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0697par0405	Guys, look, there's just been an arrangement on Article 43. What was that arrangement? You've made a different arrangement about qualifying for the prosecution. I wonder who you're doing this for. I really wonder who you're doing this for. Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri mentioned a former secretary general. If the person he's talking about is the former Secretary General of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- which would be very sad -- if you're making this arrangement to appoint this person to the State, I'd be very sorry. Because, friends, this person has only one quality, which is to be the Prime Minister's peasant.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0702par0406	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0697par0407	Other than that, this guy doesn't have any merit, and unfortunately, he doesn't have enough money.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0702par0408	He's been a submanager.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0697par0409	If you're making this arrangement to appoint such a man as a member of the State...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0703par0410	You're giving a speech on the possibility!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0697par0411	Friends, I'm sorry, but I'll say to you, "Woe be to you!"
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0704par0412	Fix that mouth of yours! Learn to speak!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0697par0413	What's our friend doing? What's our friend doing? He's got his hand in his pocket, and he's in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by nightfall. He's under the station vehicle. What's he doing?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0705par0414	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0706par0415	Guys, let's hear it, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0697par0416	Now, friends, that's the main problem with the AKP. You're very skilled at putting people who don't have merit in seats they don't deserve.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0707par0417	Sit down! You talk too much!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0697par0418	You guys are so talented. Guys, look, I'm warning you right now. If you're making this arrangement to appoint that Secretary General, former Secretary General, as a member of the State Department, that will be said by me and my friends everywhere.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0708par0419	You're brilliant!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0697par0420	We'll talk about it everywhere. We'll talk about it everywhere.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0709par0421	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0710par0422	Let's hear it, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0697par0423	Friends, since I'm out of time, there are some issues that I'd like to talk about from now on, in the matter I'm going to address.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0709par0424	Twenty-five years as a trustee.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0697par0425	For now, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0711par0427	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 53 to your votes: Those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 53 is accepted. Thus, the talks on the second chapter are completed. We now begin the talks of section three. The third chapter covers Article 54 to 81. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye asking for a speech on the third chapter. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0712par0436	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the third part of Bill 278, the respected MPs of the Turkish nation. I salute your high council. The most important counsel of the Most High Creator to us humans is that we should be just. God commands you to be just in prayer every Friday. He reads the song of the verse. He'll also translate it for us to understand. ▪ God himself is righteous and loves what is just. • From this sentence, judgment and justice are primarily a matter of greatness. The democratic, secular rule of law has reduced this divine function to the earth and has based on the will of the nation as a source of the legitimacy of the judiciary. Therefore, it is expected that during the trial, the judge will not answer to any secular authority but his own conscience, that he will not be dependent on or dependent on any power other than the law, and that he will not be a supporter of any political power and ideology. But the reality that we live in shows us that the focus of political or non-political power is very enthusiastic about controlling the judiciary for its own political and economic interests, and unfortunately, sometimes they do. To date, the most enthusiastic and skilled political staff in making the judiciary part of its political power has also served as part of the AKP. The AKP has been playing with the judiciary for ten years to make it able; all who have the potential to threaten political power have placed institutions and values on the target of the judiciary and shot at its goals by hiding behind the judiciary. The AKP has never faced its enemies face to face and fought in a manly field; it has always tried to position behind the judiciary and strike below the belt to eliminate its political opponents, to remove obstacles in the path leading to absolute power by the power of the judiciary. Special authorities, created entirely by the government, have been transformed into a rare opportunity by the government, with Turkey's belief that it will contribute to warding off the terror scourge that Turkey is facing, and have soon turned public opposition, civil society and constitutional institutions into a mechanism of intimidation, weariness and roughing. The ruling special authority has established an empire of horrors in the country, free from human rights and freedoms by the hands of courts. Every problem our citizens expect from the political institution has been viewed by power as a political opportunity to become a field of social conflict and polarization, which has increasingly made social reconciliation and co-existence difficult. The political institution has been transformed into a crisis-producing mechanism, out of being a solution and a cure in the hands of the AKP's government. For ten years, the compass of power has been oppression, intimidation and intimidation; its course is social conflict, polarization and finally division. The government, which promises to expand freedom of thought with constitutional amendments, has brought people who don't think the same way to justice by charging them with a number of unsubstantiated reasons, and has adopted the trials as a punishment. Dozens of young people, whose only crime is asking for free colleges, have been arrested for months without even learning their crimes, in a way that can be severely suspended by human rights and freedoms, just because they have expressed their demands in an environment where the Prime Minister is present. Journalists, scientists and bureaucrats who have criticised government policies have been detained for their writings and books, who have been accused of obscure crimes and have been asked to exonerate themselves, and are expected to prove themselves innocent. The purity of the universe has been turned into a guilt-strength. Anyone who opposes the government has been seen as a born criminal and has been found innocent. The government tried to trap thoughts inside your head with the promise of expanding freedom of thought. Everyone is free to consider what they want, not to reveal their anti-government views, not to criticize government policies out loud, not to write or write books against the government and not to oppose the government. Otherwise, everyone's fate will be unknown. The AKP has carried out the most violent conflict environments on our military. Our army has been beaten and worn down by the rhetoric of normalization. Vengeance, punishment, and nose friction, which has been tried to be satisfied through special authorities courts, has caused lasting and make-up anomies in our society and state lives. The government has made them uncontrollable, irresponsible, and untouchable in exchange for a mission he has assigned to special authorities. In contrast, the special authorities, who are suffering from power intoxication due to immunity and irresponsibility, have lost their balance, have attempted to fight the fight against political power, have attempted to conduct and even try to envelop life. So the government, which designed the Constitution and laws to envelop the judiciary, today has been haunted by special authority courts. It seems that the special authorities have lost the top of the cantar because of their uncompromising powers. A wave of operations in the Turkish Armed Forces has upset the military's morale, its determination and determination to fight terrorism and its deterrents in the face of external threats have been erosioned, but the Syrian crisis we're experiencing has shown how important and necessary a Turkish army is in this geography, with a high level of deterrent and war-capableness. It is absurd to expect the victory of a disgraced army whose commanders sit in the chair of the accused. It would be unfair to hold private officials responsible for these chaotic environments they have created alone, and it would be unfair to these courts, who have so far served sacrifices in the fight against separatist terror and organised crime organizations. It is also an uncontroversial reality that the ruling majority has laid the groundwork for this situation, regardless of any warning or criticism. But the special authority we're discussing today is not the way to overcome the problem of the courts, but to remove the special authorities. In the context of combating separatist terror and gangs, we need a strong need for special-ranking courts, but we need to redefine the duties and powers of these courts in a manner that will adhere to the principles of fair trial, due to the rights of the accused, and to the principles of the right of defense. The jurisdiction limits of special-level courts must be redesigned within the framework of Turkey's security, the conditions of order, measures to speed up the judicial process should be removed, causing unjust and unfair victims. The existence of a political institution, which is possible only in the presence and continuity of democracy, cannot be expected to remain silent in the face of allegations of coup attempt, or to demand that the perpetrators of any crime be left unpunished, but democracy and the state of law guarantee the law of criminals. The law is not only the system of sacred values that surrounds the defendants, but also the judges. Unlawful arbitrary investigative methods cannot be protected by the state of law. The problem is not in the presence of special authority courts, but in the way it works and operates. Therefore, removing special authorities may not solve problems, but it may cause problems to arise in other areas, in other ways, even more violently. The government's fight against separatist terrorism and crime will be weakened, the nation's faith in the state and the justice system will be undermined. Bloody, armed terrorists, ties and collaborators will be left in the street, waving their hands and arms. Drug gangs, members, mobsters, crime syndicates, they'll be able to walk among us every day. We don't think it's appropriate for anyone, especially those of us who served this country in critical tasks, to continue the criminal activities of true criminals, coupgers, mobsters, and bloody terrorists, to maintain public order, as we do not favor the unjust trial and arrest of journalists, scientists, for false causes. In this regard, the bill concerns us. With these feelings, I wish the bill to be good, and I salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0713par0450	Mr. Turkoglu, thank you. The second speaker is Mr. Pervin Buldan, Deputy Chairman of the Peace and Democracy Party. Here you go, Mr. Buldan. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0714par0454	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs or empty seats have been named the institutional structure of which mankind has created so far in order to meet some of the needs of social life from the beginning of social life. The state existed in order to meet the needs of the community, and it has basically earned its legitimacy. However, the concept of the law was needed in order to prevent this power from taking over and swallowing its own citizen. So what a society needed was not a state on its own, but a democratic state of law because the basis of the law state is both the cause of existence and its limits. The limits of state power are determined by the state of law. When the existence of the law is discussed, when the need for justice is not met, it also means the legitimacy of the state is being discussed. So, unfortunately, what happened in the state of the Republic of Turkey for a hundred years on the ground of law and state has uncovered this debate. Today, this law on the General Assembly's agenda is also the result of this debate, but it is not an arrangement that will end this debate, which will solve the legal problem created by the state, and the failure to carry out the responsibility to ensure justice; it is not denied that we need to civilize and democratize, but the ruling side does not take steps that can be considered more advanced than retouching. Mr. President, there is no legal security in the state of the Republic of Turkey, which does not have the quality of being a state of law; the right of citizens to a fair trial is systematically violated; the right to a fair trial is systematically violated; the right to a state, not to law, has been made superior; it has been derailed from the purpose of justice, it has been reduced to an instrument to the absolute authority of the state; its judicial organs have been used as a stick on the state's society, and it is continued to be used. For a hundred years, the judicial mechanism has worked in this country like a lawless production center. The Supreme Courts, martial law courts, DGMs and today's special criminal courts have carried out the social slaughter, and have written the decree of every individual who is asked to be headed in accordance with the wishes of official ideology, who considers his own citizen an internal enemy. State terrorism has shown itself by force of the law, at least as hard as a gun. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have never been able to travel through a barley length, even if certain regulations were to be made in the same totalitarian judicial system that has been destroyed in the face of the same totalitarian logic for a hundred years, because judicial independence has never been based on the idea that the state has never given up the idea of using judicial power as an ideological device. Therefore, in order to rebuild a fair judicial system, the first priority must be the transformation of the state's century mind, the importance of democracy and its establishment of justice must be believed to be essential. As a matter of fact, as of today, this transformation is necessary for both our social peace and our bright future. We have so many citizens who have been fighting for justice for so long, waiting for justice to come, that peace will never come to this land until justice comes. Therefore, if the judicial system is to be brought to an independent structure that meets the need for justice, it should be lifted quickly rather than with three or five touches, to go beyond what has been done so far, and all laws and formations that have marred the law. As a matter of fact, property courts, martial law courts, DGMs have been removed, but structures have been created to replace them. Here are the special authorities who have been replaced by the DGM, who have been replaced in the name of democratisation. The worst of the history of the republic has been signed by lawless. It has been nearly a century since the establishment of the ruling courts created as a mechanism for violent practices, and many governments have changed, and many politicians have come and gone, holding their seat with the bullshit of democracy. The state of the judicial system today is the most dire painting in the history of the Republic. Thousands of people have been locked up in prisons for organizing, gathering, performing and using basic civic rights. In this country, there has been more than a century of justice, such as suppressing social opposition, suppressing severe punishments, letting Kurdish children who have not yet had the opportunity to begin their lives suffer a thousand kinds of tortures in prisons; by finding the rapist, the perpetrator, the killer, and the means to continue gender slavery. As explained after each National Security Council meeting, it is the duty of the law to fight terrorism by way of law. In this context, the policy maker, the trade unionist, the opposition student, the lawyer, the writer, the Kurd, the Turk, who stands next to the Kurdish, and the thousands who want to say stop, and fill thousands of them with prisons without hesitation. There's a mission in which the crime of humanity, the government, thousands of crimes committed with dirty hands, will be timed out. It is the duty of the judiciary to produce legal schemes to keep the people's will behind bars. It is the judgment that frightens millions of people who are aware of their rights and want the rights that make me exist. It is the law that makes them regret living in this country. In this country, thousands of deaths have been caused by the mission of the judiciary. Judgement is that every time one of the country's only rich people gets in trouble, they stand by their arms and save them from the law. This judgment is that the soldier, the police, and the JITEM are not accountable for any lives that have been slaughtered. No minister, prime minister, bureaucrat, or general who gives these orders is brought before the law. The one who gets his way in court is the one who decides on the kind of reward and surrounds his only assassins in the tender arms of the state. This judgment, which he has charged as a terror criminal, has brought severe punishments on the children of his life, condemns the murderers of Uğur Kaymaz, who were killed with thirteen bullets at the age of twelve. He's the one who dropped bombs on the people who didn't punish the state gangs and let them go to one hearing. He's the one who made a deal with a killer who still hasn't been found out how many thousands of lives he's put out in a thousand operations, for three or five years in prison. This is also a clear picture of the government's position on unsolved murders. There is another law in this country, another law in the state. It is a judgment that holds thousands of innocent people in prisons for the possibility of evidence blackouts, which does not even bring into question those who have murdered 34 civilians in Roboski. History is a witness, and justice has not even made the lives of thousands of Kurds who have been slaughtered in this country the subject of criminal law. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are putting the government's responsibility for almost any dirty activity of the state into the past, saying it had been before us. However, all these counts have been taken over by the government from its past and culminated with the stench of the judiciary in its own time. Therefore, let this government not be distracted by the burden of this plague, nor attempt to say with three or five regulations that I will correct this judgment. I salute the General Assembly and the empty seats, he says, can only provide justice in this country and a fully independent judicial system that knows no power but the power of the law.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0715par0470	Thank you, Mr. Buldan. Third speaker, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Emine Ültur Tarhan, Ankara MP. Here you are, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0716par0474	Although more than half of it seems to have evaporated, I salute the General Assembly. You know, it's the law of physics, where the objects that participate, they have to evaporate at some point.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0717par0475	You're so cute!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0716par0476	Don't talk about things you don't know, as a staff member, I'll ask you. You're making a lot of interference. We're actually discussing the package right now, guys, but in this package...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0717par0478	You're the parasite.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0716par0479	Mr. President, are you going to silence the parasite, or should I intervene?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0718par0480	Excuse me... Mr. Mehmet... please... please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0717par0481	You're the parasite! Respectfully, you can't call a congressman parasitic.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0719par0482	Don't talk!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0720par0483	Yeah, there's no independence of justice, no freedom of rights.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0719par0485	You're making a big deal out of everything!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0721par0486	Don't be a parasite!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0719par0487	Speech!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0722par0488	Dear Metiner, don't... friends, please... please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0723par0489	There's really nothing in this package, but it's not surprising. After September 12, 2010, he was committed to the judiciary and was unable to withstand the pressures.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0724par0491	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0725par0492	You're not going to stand up or you're going to come, you parasite!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0726par0493	He's out there being brave. Get the fuck out of here! Sharq dancer! Why don't you get out of there instead of talking?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0727par0494	And with the cry of democratic legitimacy, even the dead will be removed...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0728par0496	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0729par0497	Friends, please... please sit down, please sit down. Let's hear it, my friends.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0730par0498	Whoever gets up will come!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0731par0499	You're a fucking Sharq dancer!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0732par0500	...it would not, but yes, the judgment was dismissed with the great support of the workers.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0733par0502	Friends, let's hear it for the Minister, please... please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0734par0503	Mr. President, we don't understand.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0732par0504	In the eyes of your judgment, who declared himself a universal police chief and who surrendered his entire self to the arm, everything became a crime, but there were limits to crime, of course, to power's guidance, and to the extent that when the Prime Minister arrived, those who didn't stand up, missed free education, missed haircuts, were in prison. For example, does power apply indirect censorship, and let's see, the judgment has begun to apply its direct application. The government tried to condemn the Lighthouse prosecutors by moving forward with the Lighthouse. The government wants to ban books and inappropriate or dangerous newspapers; its judgment went one step further and destroyed unpublished books. You've given up the punishment of journalists, you've drawn their fate, which is exile, prison, dishonor, or grave. You've created a judgment that's taken on the voluntary and appliedness of a law-enforcement culture that thinks differently, you've created a judgment that's involved in the oppressive and inhibiting character of the system, and you've also created new new untouchables. The judge censors it, puts it in jail; abortion cries, crying minds, pepper sprays, batons, young girls' plucked hair, police-kicked babies, you're being insensitive to it. I'm opening a parentheses, crying for an abortion, saying that the unborn are defending the right to live, they're not ashamed of beating up the born and the growing! For some reason, I'd like to see them slaved to death.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0735par0506	New employment has been provided for 218,000 people in the GAP area. Unemployment is falling in Urbana, Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0732par0507	Ma'am, you talk too much about things you don't know! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Those who claim to defend their right to live, for some reason, you don't make a sound to their throats, you don't make a sound to their lack of food, you don't make a sound to their death by pepper spray, you don't make a sound to their hair, they don't come home in a flag-wrapped coffin!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0736par0510	Who's not making any noise?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0732par0511	How many journalists, how many students, how many unionists are arrested because you want them? I don't count anymore.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0737par0512	Find out and come...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0732par0513	Count a little, count a little, count a little, don't run a little, count a little. Do you know how many painful people are in those files that the Minister calls himself? Your honor, your honor, your honor, your honor. So what is it? What is it? The fact that you understand the democratic legitimacy you don't speak is the legitimacy of the one man's will. So what is it? The only judge of your judgment is the Prime Minister. So what is it? Judgement is now a slave to the running. So what is it?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0738par0516	Wow, what is it?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0732par0517	What is it?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0739par0518	What is it?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0732par0519	They listen to me too, but I'm not bothered because the head of the higher judicial body, your classmate, who almost congratulates those who listen, now rules the supreme judgment!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0740par0520	So what is it?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0732par0521	But what is it? I guess it's a little too far gone, so I'm going to start my own courts. When I say, "The arrogance and the power disease has become unmanageable, the monster he created has become unmanageable." That's what happened to your famous duka-duka-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh. After years and years, all of a sudden, for whatever mysterious reason, there is no room for special authorities in the state of Justice. In fact, you admitted that we haven't lived in a legal state in years. The famous Turkish lawyer Bekir Bozdağ confessed, confessed to putting police badges in the legal state by hand, admitting that he ruled us with the police state.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0740par0522	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0732par0523	Well, obviously you guys are up to something about this.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0741par0524	Please, let's hear it, folks.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0732par0525	Because fear waits for mountains, fear waits for mountains, you fear something.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0742par0526	Why should we be afraid?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0732par0527	Why else, why now? Can you tell me why?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0743par0528	They're afraid of secret accounts.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0732par0529	Okay. You're obviously up to something, but unfortunately none of the respected members of Parliament have any idea what you're up to, and neither do the commissioners. In a moment, you will likely face a surprise, all of you, together.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0744par0530	So what is it?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0732par0531	So what is it? Look, you've learned, you've learned quickly, this time you've learned very quickly, really.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0745par0532	The more you talk, the lower your vote.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0732par0533	Okay. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, Do not remove the special authorities as you have removed the DGMs, but stop deceiving the people.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0746par0535	Let's hear it, please... please, friends. Please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0732par0536	Stop providing protection only to your own secret cube, only to your own corruption.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0747par0537	So what is it?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0748par0538	Mr. President, invite him to be serious.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0749par0539	Why don't you look over here a little bit? Please, I'm telling you, Mr. Serindağ. What do you want me to do? Both sides, please listen quietly. That's all I can say.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0750par0540	Give him a warning.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0751par0541	We're tired of doubting your sincerity... and we're tired of doubting your sincerity. You know why? We know how you used the chain of command and command of the Lighthouse prosecutors, how you created Ergenekon, Balyoz, and filed cases with false evidence, how you covered up the Sivas massacre, how you identified Hrant Dink was killed by so-called patriots, and how you promoted the real perpetrators.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0752par0542	Mr. President, I need you to give me a warning, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0753par0543	There's no sound on the other side now, Mr. Hamzacebi. Please shut up, let's listen, we're listening.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0751par0544	We also know that you are unable to shed light on the mysterious incident of your beloved minister, who survived an unlighted attempt at pet-bottle assassination at the last moment and brought our hearts to my mouth. Well, we know that you have declared sports clubs that are hundreds of thousands, maybe millions of fans, commanders with hundreds of thousands of armies, terrorists, that you can't judge the perpetrators of the coup, that you can't even bring them to trial, but you're trying to judge the coups that have never been done.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0754par0546	And you're a lawyer.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0751par0547	Look, you're too scared to let the Prime Minister in, and you're too scared to admit it, and you're too scared to let the Undersecretary come next, but all these MPs, all these blacked-out young people, all these journalists, and all these people that you love, I guess, wouldn't be an undersecretary. We know that other dynamics actually work, but anyway, I don't want to talk about it right now. We know which negotiations are actually in effect. Today you made our country look like an empty clock. You tried and handed them over to the Turkish people you tried to emulate with the lies of democracy, a judgment you didn't trust and feared. You cut the Turkish people's ties with justice. By giving life to one man, as it is now, you have vaporized life as you have vaporized it. You know what we're left with? There's only one move left, indeed, my servant. We've got one move left, and that's all we've got left.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0755par0550	Are you aware of the polls?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0756par0551	Please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0751par0552	You're trying to change the name of this parliamentary system, which has only been named recently.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0755par0553	Are you aware of the polls, the latest polls?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0751par0554	Look, I read one last lesson to you in a book, it wasn't a bright paper book, it wasn't expensive, it said that judges of the Dictators punish the previous ruling staffs with a desire, but they can't get away from being the defendant of the next court, because their only goal is to destroy the enemy they're hunting for continuity, and they don't want justice.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0757par0556	Mr. Tarhan, thank you. Now, on behalf of his people, Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu, Kayseri MP. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0758par0559	Reverend President, esteemed MPs, I salute you all. Today's legislation must have a quality to ease their conscience, in accordance with the wishes of various groups. If the laws to be passed did not find supporters in the public conscience, it cannot be thought to have done justice. As a matter of fact, there is a first degree of certainty in the establishment of justice, when the law is important, it must be brought up by those who follow the law and those who have the right. Thus, the government's judges, the judges, who are their judges in today's sense, were carefully assessed, trained in the madrassa, and appointed after a certain examination. Dear MPs, at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where we are today, it is interesting to see that many of the esteemed members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey who have been trying to serve until these hours have not been in Parliament. When the decision is required, the high Turkish nation is considered to be the first ones to run and call people on the outside and enter the Parliament for the number of decisions that are sufficient because, above all, the people who sent them to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are the great Turkish nation. Aside from their disrespect for the nation they represent, they also disrespect the other members of parliament who are here and who are here, as they disrespect the President of the Assembly, as they disrespect the Minister of Justice, who is in the position of representative of the law.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0759par0563	It doesn't suit you, Hajji!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0758par0564	Doesn't suit me, doesn't it suit those who disagree?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0760par0565	Look at your own band!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0758par0566	Why do you think of my own group? Count them, or you have 326 MPs, so let's put them in proportion.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0761par0568	Instead of answering from there, come out and answer from the podium.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0758par0569	I don't need to tell my own group because you're bringing in the law. So if it's a shame that you don't agree and your friends don't participate, you have to accept it. First of all, imagine that the Ottoman state is not a democratic state, but a sovereign state. Even in the Ottoman Empire, when the women see a court, they will not be dismissed or changed the law. You're not even as good as the Ottoman Empire. You get upset when we say that. Why are you getting angry? Why, why... (AK PARTY and MHP rows indiscriminately). You're doing something that's not even in the theocratic state, so don't do it. So compare it with Turkey. What is being done in Turkey? You're making a law when you're being sued in Turkey, is that right? Think on your own conscience, think on it as simple as that. Can a judge be changed in a court of law? It can't be changed. Does that fit your conscience? It doesn't fit. You say justice is the foundation of justice. You say justice is the foundation of property. You say that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must first reveal its own value. If you want to take it, don't. So if you think about it in a certain political sense, you may not accept it, but you will agree that it is not true, that it is not true. So if you're saying that there's no way to talk when the case is being filed, but you're changing the law when it's being filed, tell me what justice, what law it's going to fit into. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Second, this land... we'll talk about it later. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0762par0575	Mr. Halaçoglu, thank you. Second speaker on behalf of his subjects, Mr. Sırrı Sakık, Müsh MP. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0763par0578	Dear friends, I salute you all again. In any case, we're about to face changes to special authorities and special prosecutors. I'd like to share a moment with you. In 1995, I went to the Ankara State Security Court to watch a trial, and journalists asked: "Why are you here?" We had just been released from prison. I said, "By God, we were wronged yesterday, and these friends of ours were also wronged, and I wish, I hope, today the judgment will clear our friends." When I said that, a group of our female friends applauded, and at that time there was Nusret Demiral, the DGM Attorney. I don't know if he's alive or dead. If he's dead, may God have mercy on those who are with him, but if he is alive, God will make him right, because he came out and gave him an instruction, and he said, "Take these. There were 240 of us, and they took us away. We stayed on the concrete for seven days and seven nights, just because they applauded my speech. And then they brought us to the DGM -- at that time it was DGM -- and they arrested us, and we stayed in prison for about two months. I went back to the court that day and said, "This guy wants to be an MP, and he wants to be a MP from the National Movement Party at the time, and he's trying to create a springboard with us." And immediately the elections happened in 1995, and he's running from the National Movement Party. This man filed files on all of us in 1994 and the DEP case in 1992, and there was nothing in the files. And after we were arrested, you know, the judges usually made the arrest based on evidence, after they arrested us, the prosecutors were going with the government helicopters to the rangers in the area, where they were trying to collect statements, evidence from the rangers about us. The DGM of that period is the same as the special court today. He was a prosecutor, imagine, in such a state of mind that his dog had died, his dog had built a statue of his dog, and he went and cried loudly in front of his dog's statue every day. These prosecutors have made such judgments that we have faced such persecution that today's practices continue. Now, these special authorities really don't do anything about the peace of this people, they do nothing about the peace of this people, they take responsibility for the situation, and they give the public a really painful year of what's going on. I've just watched, sadly, from Ergenekon to Ergenekon, from Ergenekon, from Ergenekon to the students of Ergenekon, as the Speaker of the Main Opposition Party has come out and what's going on in this country, and we're all joining them, but there are seven to seventy people in this country. The Anti-Terror Law was brought in for this people, and they were declared terrorists from seven to 70. You haven't said a word about any of this. That's not democracy. Democracy is only for those close to you, for those close to you...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0764par0585	How do you know?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0763par0586	It's the opposition party's job not to discriminate between them.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0764par0587	Tell them.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0763par0588	I tell these things, they have many sins, but you shouldn't be a participant in them. If it's done to Kurds, you can't be democrats. The more these special authorities persecuted soldiers, the more they persecuted students, the more they persecuted Kurds, and the real reason is against the Kurds. That's why these courts...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0765par0589	We didn't make that distinction.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0763par0590	I didn't say a word, I even called my place, and I said...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0766par0591	You're being a separatist, Secret, you're being a separatist! Look, Kurds are victims, too. I didn't hear a word about KCK. I didn't hear a word about KESK.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0767par0593	Have mercy, have mercy!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0766par0594	You're being a separatist.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0768par0595	Indeed, this process of judgment, this process of judgment, is driven by a full gestapo understanding. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They really need to be removed. If something good is to be done, if it is to be contributed to our peace, these courts must be eliminated immediately.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0766par0598	Don't go too far, your deal's off, Secret!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0768par0599	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0769par0600	Mr. Sakık, thank you. Members of parliament, there is a motion on the section according to Article 72 of the Civil Code. I am reading the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Your imposition is 72. In accordance with the clause, we demand and demand that negotiations be carried out on the third part of the 778 Numbered Bill. Mahmut Tanal Salih Fırat Dilek Akagün Yilmaz In judicial practice, the law of criminal judgment is constantly busy with the country's agenda, as well as the problems of arrest and other protection measures. The debate over the Special Official Courts continues in an intense manner. The ECHR's numerous decisions stress that the detention institution in Turkey is not working well, that people are unfairly deprived of their freedoms. In Turkey, imprisonment has been removed from being a temporary measure to ensure the goal of criminal judgment, and has been reduced to a pre-trial punishment. The ECHR ruled that there was a "legal and systematic problem" stemming from the judicial system and law in Turkey, and that the issue was to continue the arrest or detention of the courts. " The nature of the crime, the state of the evidence, the content of the case, is an abstract, cliche basis for their lack of a controversial trial in the study of the legality of imprisonment, asking the Turkish government to take the necessary measures to correct it. However, the government remains unsolved, just seems to solve it. The arrest can only be applied when all the conditions sought in the law are in place and there is no way to reach the desired conclusion of the arrest with other measures. In our country's implementation, detention has been reduced from a temporary measure, to actual imprisonment. The arrest has become an institution out of purpose and abused. 100 of the Penal Code. Article 3. In his joke, the catalogue began to be understood and applied, as if it were an automatic arrest warrant, in case there were strong reasons for suspicion that crimes were committed. Even if any crime does not remain among the catalogue crimes in the joke, the situation is referred to as an organisation of more than two people, which is referred to as an organisation, and is going to be arrested, as opposed to the legal regulations in our country -- which cannot be broken even in extreme legal regimes -- eliminates the "profit of crime." In this regard, our arrest period is widely accepted in light of UAV implementation. In Turkey, the judicial mechanism does not have the ability to carry out justice. In our country, the expression of justice is problematic both in quantity and in quality. The judicial packages that have been announced thus far have not taken concrete and serious steps to speed up the judicial decision process. No problem has been solved. The arrests and lengthy imprisonments faced in our country's implementation have been created, but the problem with this package has not been resolved, as has been done in previous times. Law proposal for the amendment of CHP MPs to the solution to the problem has been combined with this bill, but the talks have not even been considered. For these reasons, it is of great importance to continue negotiations on the entire proposal.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0770par0616	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0769par0617	There's a request for roll call before we submit the motion to your votes, and we're doing it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Firat, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Öner, Mr. Special, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Öğürendereli, Mr. Öğütüle, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Batum, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Özgüşük, Mr. Özturkk. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you a minute, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We're moving on to the QA. Since the system's been hacked, our friends who hacked into the system need to get back into the system. I read the names of those who entered the system earlier: Mr. Acar, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Firat, Mr. Köse, Mr. Cizer, Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Akçay, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. De millerdereli, Mr. Light. Now, I'm going to promise our friends one minute, in order to answer questions. Mr. Acar, Mr. Serindağ hasn't entered the system yet. Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0771par0634	Thank you, Mr. President. I've asked the Minister before. Mr. Bekir Bozdağ said that there is no place for special authorities in the state of Justice. There's still a private court in Turkey at this hour. So, if Turkey still isn't the state of law or the state of law, what's a private court doing? Another question: The court of Çelikhan district of Adıyaman is closed. Çelikhan district has 22,000 inhabitants, Adıyaman is 55 kilometers from the centre. It snows in winter, so the road closes, our people are victims. Do you intend to reopen the Adıyaman Çelikhan courthouse? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0772par0638	Thank you. Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0773par0640	The arrest of former SEC President Kemal Gırak, who left the post of head of the YÖK 15 years ago, interrupted his cruise while he was on vacation and arrived in Turkey, is not acceptable to public conscience, public conscience, public conscience. We see being fair as the human value we lose the most. Are you proud to be Minister of Justice in a country like this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0772par0642	Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0774par0643	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking Mr. Secretary with your intermediary; I've asked you this before, and I haven't received your answer. Some officers have been detained on charges of assassination in Ankara. A search has been conducted for days in the cosmic room of the Turkish Armed Forces. It's been more than two years, but as far as we're concerned, there's been no trial, no non-obstruction. Now, I'm asking the Minister, was this claim not true, a false claim, a false claim, or is there someone protecting it, Mr. Secretary? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0775par0646	Thank you. Mr. Cihaner...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0776par0648	I would ask the Minister of Justice to answer this question: Article 102 of Law 2802 brings a measurement on the calculation of the salaries of judges and prosecutors and covers all payments paid under financial rights to the prime minister, who is the highest civil servant. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors has launched an investigation into Mustafa Seymen, who is suing to determine this matter. The reason for the investigation is to obtain personal data. Isn't that clearly a pressure on judgment? Similarly, HSYK 1. At a meeting of the office's head in Sapanca, such cases were expressed by judges and prosecutors there, where he declared that they were not true and that they did not comply with the government's negotiations. How can you swallow that in terms of freedom of rights and oppression of the judiciary?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0777par0652	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0778par0653	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in the law we're negotiating, a lot of criminal fines are being reduced to administrative fines, and the mission is being taken from the republic's prosecutors and judges and transferred property to the superiors. If more than one judge and prosecutor in one district and one district can't handle the burden, how can one governor and the only governor in one county handle it? Besides, every procedure of the administration is subject to judicial supervision. I mean, you think you're lightening the burden of judgment here, but how do you lift the burden of administrative judgment? What do you think you're doing? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0779par0658	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0780par0659	Thank you, Mr. President. According to the Law Act, any notification fee, discovery costs, expert witness and witness fees will have to be admitted in advance as the case is being filed by the plaintiff. With the costs of the court being taken in advance, the right to sue for the rights of the small-income is blocked, especially through the judiciary. With this, the cost of filing a lawsuit has been increased by 6 to 7 times as much as before. Do you think you can fix this, make it easier for him to look for rights? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0781par0662	Thank you. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0782par0664	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I just asked you, and I repeat, I didn't get an answer. Seyitgazi district is a town with a population of around 15,000 and 50 villages. His courthouse is closed, Eskişehir is connected to headquarters. From those villages there is no way he could have come to Eskişehir. Do you plan to open a courthouse in Syedgazi, as it has been opened elsewhere?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0783par0667	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0784par0669	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, some of the districts where the courthouses have been closed have been held in public and you have reopened the courts there. Havran and Gömeç districts of Balıkesir have not acted and their courts have been closed. And his ways went further to justice, and further to justice. Do you intend to reopen these courts in order for justice to approach the citizen? And if they need to act, if you recommend it, they're ready to act. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0785par0672	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0786par0673	Minister, I was in Malatya yesterday. At Malatiah, the courts of Arguvan, Kuluncak, and Greenyurt, and Yazhan were closed. Before, the courts of Battalgazi, Doğanyol and Kale were closed. There are 13 counties in Malatya, 7 of our courts are closed. The Malatians asked me a question yesterday, and I'd like to ask you that question. They say: "Do you think the Malatians were wronged?" Besides, it's not just the courthouses that are closed; it's actually the job that's closed there, where the bread is destroyed; it's the diner's bread, the driver's bread; it's actually the migration from here to the destruction of the counties. Do you intend to intervene in this matter? That's one. Another question: 13 people were killed in Urbana Prison. Do you, as Minister of Justice, feel remorse?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0787par0676	Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0788par0677	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister if the rulings will be obeyed as an executive. So -- and I just said in my speech -- there's a Supreme Court decision on the Turkish Institute of Standards, there's a extradition decision that the business court and the Supreme Court approves, but it's not there, it's there, it's directed to pay compensation for criminal sanctions. Will this state's money be constantly, like this, prevented from paying the government's staff as a criminal condition? And in Kastamon, I just told you, Tazzeytin is closed in court, and this is Sinop...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0789par0681	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0790par0683	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll start with Mr. Fırat's question. By quoting the statements of our Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Fırat has no place in the Law States for special-level courts. He asked a question that means "There are still these special courts so far," which means "isn't this the state of law?" Mr. Firat, the litigation courts are all over the state of the law. Such extraordinary powers or the normalisation of the powers that other courts do not have continue during a process in Turkey. Maybe tonight, maybe tomorrow, we're talking about some work on the road to a speciality court, to be a residency court, as well as the work we're going to be doing on the bill we're talking about. I think we'll consider this together. On the other hand, there was a question regarding the closure of the court of Çelikhan district of Adıyaman Province, Turkey. Of course, about all of our deputies asked similar questions, and I'm not going to evaluate each of them separately, in general, and I'll tell you this: is one member of our Congress considered unfair to Malatya? Asked in terms of the district courts closed down. Dear friends, no practice has been conducted based on a special enemy base in any district of any province.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0791par0687	Mr. Secretary, what is your opinion of Erzincan?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0790par0688	It is an assessment made throughout Turkey, and as a result, it has been decided to merge 102 district courts.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0791par0689	Three counties closed, reopened in Erzincan.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0790par0690	In this sense, similar practices have been conducted in each region, in each province.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0792par0691	Is Hatay in?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0793par0692	Is Hatay in it, Hatay in it?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0790par0693	It is among the cities that do not exist, and Hatay was among them last time. Dear friends, I've shared the results of this with you in the previous round of questions that the Ministry of Justice has objected to the first decision. From now on, our opposition is not subject to law. Mr. Köse, consciences do not accept the arrest of Kemal Glük. How do you view being the Minister of Justice in such a country? Dear friends, I can tell you about the course of justice in Turkey since the past. In fact, what I'm about to say isn't something you're strangers to. In Turkey, we can share with you history the history of the process in which the judiciary began during the republic, following its 1960 coup.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0794par0697	Mr. Secretary, you're not telling the truth, there's no period. There's been no period of imprisonment for five years.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0790par0698	It won't bring much to us to share this process of judgment, the process that the judiciary has followed...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0794par0699	You tell me!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0790par0700	I can see that, but if we're going to discuss the concept of trust in the judiciary, I'll share confidence in the past history, but I'm afraid that this debate will bring you no results that you'll be very pleased with.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0794par0701	Tell us about five years in prison. Don't tell a story, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0795par0702	When did this happen?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0794par0703	Five years in prison in this country. When did he get five years in prison?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0796par0704	Can I have your attention, please?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0797par0705	Dear friends, you asked questions, then listen to the answer.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0798par0706	Not even on September 12th.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0799par0707	Five years in prison, five.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0800par0708	Mr. Batum, listen up.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0801par0709	Five, five!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0802par0710	See, the politician who was sentenced to prison for studying poetry in this country did not undermine your confidence in the judiciary.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0801par0711	Five, five!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0803par0712	Tell me about five years in prison.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0802par0713	Again, when you were about to enter the 2002 elections, you were not disturbed by a president who was not elected on a last-minute operation.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0801par0714	Five, five!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0803par0715	Illustrate, for example, five years imprisonment. Listen to what?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0802par0716	The 367 Constitutional Court ruling did not undermine your confidence in the judiciary. Again, the fact that a 47-percent-voted party filed a closed-down case just eight months after the election did not undermine your confidence in the judiciary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, in this country, the judges who applauded the coup and credits, the briefing, have not violated your trust until today. The rest of the country in question is the rest of the country. I am on my side, I am on the side of the state. Those who say, "I am on the side of the state." I'm afraid it hasn't undermined your confidence in the judiciary until now.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0804par0721	You don't answer questions.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0805par0722	Demagoji, don't!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0802par0723	Whether or not you'd like it to be approved, would you like it to be corrupted? The high-judgment members have not violated your trust in the judiciary, nor have you ever been opposed to any of it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0806par0725	Who's Ali Dibo? Who's Ali Dibo, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0802par0726	Today, a Supreme Court elected by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey does not give you confidence. You do not have confidence in the HSYK of 16 members of the 22 members, elected by the judicial bodies, by the members of the judiciary themselves.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0806par0727	Who's Ali Dibo, Ali Dibo?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0802par0728	A court of the European Court of Human Rights trying to fit in with the courts does not give you confidence today.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0807par0729	Pass them, pass them.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0808par0730	He's not giving you any more, and he's not giving you any more.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0802par0731	The Supreme Court, which has worked day and night to speed up the trial and has doubled its number of decisions to three degrees in the past period, does not reassure you as of today.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0809par0732	Tell me about the MIT law.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0802par0733	The judgment, which does not salute the coup and the muhti, which is not briefed, who asks the account, unfortunately, does not give you confidence today.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0809par0735	Tell me about the lighthouse.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0802par0736	Social engineering is deeply disturbed by the situation in which the judiciary has come today, by taking over the authority that it cannot obtain from the nation in the elections.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0810par0737	Mr. President, answer the questions, the questions.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0802par0738	And we understand the source of this disease very well.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0811par0739	Mr. Secretary, answer the questions, answer the questions.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0802par0740	If we're going to discuss the positioning and politicalization of the judiciary, I'm afraid there's going to be a scene there that will embarrass you, too.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0812par0741	Mr. Secretary, do the judges who voted blankly for you in the first round give you confidence in the judgment that voted blankly to measure your strength in the first round? You're talking there. That's 180 empty votes of confidence? Who gives you confidence? Empty votes give you confidence?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0802par0742	Ben, look, it's 12 o'clock today. I have patiently listened to all your harsh words, your insults, to this hour.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0813par0743	What have you done with Kemal Gurak?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0812par0744	Mr. Secretary, who gives you confidence?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0802par0745	But again and again, it's my duty to say these things against allegations and slanders that have nothing to do with the truth.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0813par0747	Mr. Secretary, answer the question. What have you done with Kemal Gurak?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0814par0748	The Minister's nervous, sir, the Minister's nervous.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0802par0749	Dear lawmakers, if we're going to talk about staffing and politicalization in the judiciary, everyone needs to look in the mirror first, then they need to talk to the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0813par0751	What did Kemal Gorek do?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0815par0752	Who's Ali Dibo, Ali Dibo?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0802par0753	Dear lawmakers, we have taken important steps over the years to establish a judgment that will raise the reputation of the judiciary in Turkey, that will allow them to be judged in a reasonable time, that will make peace with universal law, and that will continue without stopping. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0816par0756	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0817par0757	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0818par0758	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0817par0759	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0819par0760	Here you go, sir, one of you talk to...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0818par0761	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary is insulting Parliament, lawmakers. He's not answering questions.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0820par0762	I answered the questions.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0818par0763	If you want to make a speech, go out and talk here. Answer the question.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0820par0764	What question didn't I answer?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0821par0765	Why didn't you answer my question?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0822par0766	There's nothing wrong with this racket!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0823par0767	When you brought protection armor to the MIT Law, you trusted the judiciary?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0822par0768	One second, sir, one second... Here you are, Mr. Hamzacebi, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0824par0770	In his speech, Mr. Secretary, instead of answering the questions of our friends, he's been taunting our group with some answers, some polemics he's made, I promise you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0825par0771	What did I say?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0822par0772	Here you go, two minutes, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Without further ado, please Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0826par0775	Mr. President, from time to time, you give that time in three minutes. He's got a rough patch this long, Mr. Secretary, and you're giving him a minute or two.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0822par0776	But, Mr. Hamzacebi, I didn't add to it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0827par0777	But you gave him that time to answer, Mr. President, not to demagogue him, but to talk nonsense.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0828par0778	He's pointing the question at you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0822par0779	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0829par0782	Mr. President, we're talking about a law referred to as third judicial reform, and we've just heard Mr. Minister's cautionary speech. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister a few questions: Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who was convicted of reading poetry, criticised you for saying, "Did you not do this?" And I say, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's ban on the election is lifted with the support of the Republican People's Party, and those who are tried today at Silivri don't make you feel guilty? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Didn't your conscience ache when the funeral of Kuddusi Okrýl, which you put in prison as the terrorist organization's vault, was removed by the municipality? Don't you have a conscience? Don't you ever get a guilty conscience when you're being tried for being a member of a terrorist organization for hanging banners and sentenced to nine years in prison? You say we criticize the judiciary against the HSYK elected by the members of the judiciary, when the same HSYK appointed judges began to reach the members and the Prime Minister, did you not make a law here overnight to replace the judges and prosecutors of the HSYK that you now respect? Did it not occur to you that those who were tried in Silivri, who were tried without law, were in danger because of the members of the MIT? Didn't you shamelessly remove the prosecutors who tried to expose the Lighthouse corruption overnight? Didn't you remove the law clause that would provide the liquidation of the Infrastructure Finance here overnight, under the Prime Minister's orders? I don't have time, I can make a lot more of these. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Secretary is the last person to say that. Mr. Secretary, who should be responsible for justice, I understand that he's not responsible for justice, he's responsible for pollen!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0830par0789	The minister responsible for bullying, for bullying! [AK PARTY APPLAUSE]
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0829par0790	You're going to make arrangements for the special court, and you haven't given us his motion until now.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0831par0791	Open it, Mayor, open it! Why aren't you picking up?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0829par0792	Perhaps the Minister of Justice could tell us the matter.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0831par0793	You're opening it to the minister, but why don't you open it to the Deputy Director of the Group?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0832par0795	Mr. Hamzacebi, please pick it up.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0831par0796	Why don't you open it to the Minister, and why don't you open it to the Deputy Director of the Group?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0832par0798	Dear friends...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0833par0799	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0832par0800	Mr. Vural, please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0834par0801	Mr. President, I'd like to ask you something.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0832par0802	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0834par0803	Here, Mr. Secretary, when he finished his speech during negotiations on the entire bill, the deadline ended in 20 minutes, and you gave him an extension. Without saying, "I'll give him an extension." You've extended his speech...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0835par0804	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0834par0805	I'd like you to explain to me how much you've seen a minute here.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0836par0806	Let me explain, sir, if you'll just shut up. Look...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0834par0808	In fact, I'd like to ask the Minister, on what basis of the Civil Code did you show this tolerance?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0836par0809	Now, Mr. Hamzacebi, here's what happened...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0834par0810	The fact that you've given the Minister the right to speak...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0836par0811	Can I have your attention for a second? Have you finished? Yes, yes...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0837par0813	All you're missing is an iron baton!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0836par0814	One moment, sir, this is your president speaking. You can't all talk... excuse me.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0837par0815	The only thing missing is your iron baton and pepper spray in this House! If you want General Board, bring an iron baton!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0838par0816	Mr. Tarhan, just a moment...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0836par0817	Excuse me.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0838par0818	I respect that you've given the Minister the right to speak. If a person wants to talk, the ruling party's group becomes the vice president, he becomes the deputy minister, Mr. Secretary, if he is speaking, and Mr. President grants him an additional word, I'd like him to speak as if I never object to it, but why don't you show me the tolerance you've shown the Minister here?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0836par0819	Now, Mr. Hamzacebi, it's like this: Sir, for 15 minutes while friends are asking questions, it starts about a minute and a half late so that friends don't interrupt, so we don't give them seven and a half minutes, we give them six and a half to answer their questions. There's no other bad luck.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0838par0820	Mr. President, I said something else, you misunderstood.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0836par0821	No, I'll tell you, I'll tell you. So we added that one-and-a-half minute to Mr. Secretary to answer the questions, that's all.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0838par0822	Mr. President, I said something else, and I think you missed it. After all the talks on the bill, Mr. Secretary's deadline wasn't enough. Of course, Mr. Secretary shared his 20-minute speech. You gave him an extra word there after he was done.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0836par0823	No, I mean pick it up. I said, that's it.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0838par0824	I've watched it well, and you've given me an additional word.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0836par0825	But I'm telling you the truth, there's no frustration in any way, so pick it up.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0838par0826	Mr. President, it doesn't suit you, look, it doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0836par0827	But look, it doesn't suit you either! I'm explaining to you, you don't want to understand,
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0839par0828	Mr. President, Mr. Group, if the Vice President wishes to speak, let him speak from the stand.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0838par0829	(Stanbul) It doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0836par0830	It doesn't suit you, Mr. Hamzacebi! I just told you I closed that gap, there's no other bad luck. Believe me, I don't.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0838par0832	Look, you're talking about the conversation right now.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0836par0833	No, I don't remember that either, believe me. There's no extension on purpose, really, there's no extension. But I'm telling you, you don't want to understand.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0838par0834	I don't have a hearing problem.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0836par0835	Neither do I, sir, nor do I. Please... please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0840par0836	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0836par0837	Mr. Vural, please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0841par0838	Mr. Hamzacebi, what are you trying to do there?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0842par0839	Mr. Aydın, you're not supposed to say...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0841par0840	Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0842par0841	Mr. Ünal, you must say: Mr. President, let him speak. I do this when you are on the stand.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0841par0842	No, sir, I said let him speak.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0842par0843	But you're not talking to the President, you're telling me.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0841par0844	But you're arguing.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0842par0845	No, no... it's too bad, it's not happening. When you leave, when you ask for a word, I say, 'Come in.' So you're supposed to say, Mr. President, give me one more minute. You're supposed to say, but you're even holding it back. Mr. Ünal, I don't think it suits you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0841par0846	No, no, I did.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0843par0847	Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0844par0850	Thank you. Mr. President, here the MPs are delivering their questions to the Minister through you. So I would have expected the Minister to answer questions with respect to the parliamentarians because they ask on behalf of the nation. Mr. Secretary, you have the right to lecture on this stand, you may speak, but by not answering the questions of the MPs, you insult the people they represent, you ignore them.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0845par0852	The insult belongs to you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0844par0853	I'm returning it to you, I'm returning it to you! (Applause from MHP and CHP rows) Yes, it's an insult to the Turkish nation that he represents when a congressman is asking questions about the people behind him, and you don't pay attention to him, and you answer other matters. His speech here is people's talk. Therefore, if we call you Mr. Secretary, it is because you are Minister of the Republic of Turkey. They're MPs, you have to respect them. (MHP and CHP clapping in rows) Whoever brings you in, whoever sits there, is the people who make you sit there. So, when you were going to show you that respect, you were going to go, where you were going to maintain the integrity of justice while you were building a mobile court. You were supposed to talk while the protocols were signed in Oslo, while justice was being sold. You should have thought of that when you brought in the bill that brought the terrorist leader his pardon, right? You were going to maintain the integrity of law and justice while you repeatedly stepped forward to clear the way for the terrorist's retrial. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you could have spoken against the Prime Minister, you would have maintained justice. (Applause from MHP rows) If you had brought those who were fighting terrorism as criminals and suspects and seen that justice had been brought under the table while negotiating with members of the terrorist organization, then you would have had justice.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0846par0856	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0847par0857	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0846par0858	Was something said about you?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0847par0859	Although the nation's representatives have been defended in Parliament to represent the will of the nation, I will say that this will is not respected against our group.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0846par0860	Two minutes and you're on your way.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0848par0861	The other members of the group are going to the stand without asking, do you have an obligation to interrogate ours?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0847par0863	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, every member of parliament sitting here comes in, representing the nation, being elected, independent, partying, group or not. Until proven otherwise in a legal state, anyone who comes from that stand representing the will of the nation must show it to everyone, every section, when they want that respect on this stand; the opposition of power, everyone. And without discrimination in the language he uses, people and people need to show the same maximum and minimum respect for our group by digesting democracy, respecting the will of the nation, knowing that different parts of the population, different beliefs, different ethnic identities, differences, and pluralism are a fact of this country. From time to time, from this stand and from this microphone, those who say they speak with the will of the people, when they look at our stand, we see that they have forgotten the will of the people, and we see that they have failed in respect. We see that our beliefs, our values, the people we see are being disrespected and insulted. We, no matter who was on this bench, respected all the representatives of the state who came in, regardless of who they were. No one should take the right to insult Kurdish leaders on this platform.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0849par0866	Who's the leader?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0847par0867	And everyone needs to know that there's been a breach here.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0850par0869	We'll keep calling the killer "the killer." Baby killers are killers!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0849par0870	You mean the baby killer?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0847par0871	We know who's the killer, and we know who's the unsub.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0850par0872	To the killer, to the murderer... baby killers are killers!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0849par0873	You mean the baby killer?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0847par0874	I just want one thing, then, to explain the protocol that brought and delivered Abdullah Ocalan during the Coalition period, what does this protocol say? I want this protocol explained. In accordance with the will of the nation, which is the Prime Minister's protocol when it is brought to İmralı on February 15th?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0851par0875	You explain, you, you!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0852par0876	Anyone who doesn't explain is a bastard!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0851par0877	You explain, you!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0853par0878	What General Staff is this protocol?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0852par0879	Anyone who doesn't explain is a bastard! Anyone who doesn't explain is a bastard! He's the one who doesn't explain the protocols in Oslo! Come on, explain! You've walked these roads together, it's the same thing that doesn't explain the protocols!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0854par0880	Who knows anything and doesn't explain it!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0853par0881	Which minister has this protocol? I want it explained.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0855par0882	Mr. Kaplan, thank you. Please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0853par0883	This protocol is classified on February 15th, and I want it explained.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0856par0884	Who wouldn't explain it? Explain it to me!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0853par0885	On March 15th, I want the protocol for the will to send Fethullah Gülen Å to Pennsylvania. Explain, I want both. Yes, if it's a national will, I call it a national will.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0857par0886	Mr. Kaplan, thank you so much, please...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0858par0887	Explain, explain!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0859par0888	Explain, explain, explain what negotiations you've made! Explain the talks of Layla and Majnu.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0860par0889	Explain it to them. Explain it to them.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0861par0890	I'm inviting him.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0860par0891	You explain, you.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0862par0892	Mr. President, I don't think this is about a coalition government about February 15th.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0861par0893	There's an explanation for Mr. Ecevit. Mr. Ecevit said I don't know why he was brought here. It came within a protocol...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0862par0894	There was no coalition government then.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0863par0895	Congressmans, on chapter three...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0862par0896	There's no need to talk to the AKP... about the coalition government at that time! Explain the protocols, for Christ's sake! Open up, open up, open up, open up! Explain, come together, Mr. Mahir and Mr. Hasip will explain, the co-chairs will explain.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0864par0897	Tell me what you know! Don't throw it away, don't back down, just tell me what you know! Who doesn't say, he's mean, he's mean!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0863par0898	Congressmans, thank you. [[Continue]] The talks on chapter three are complete. Now, if there's any clauses on the third section, I'll submit them to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause. There are two motions on Article 54: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Your bill is 54. The number 17 of the 2577 Law replaced with a clause. In Article (1), we propose that a billion euros be changed to the Turkish lira of 20. Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ali Özgündüz Refik Eryılmaz İlhan Demiröz Kazım Kurt Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 54th draft of the 278th row bill. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. Oktay Özturk Oktay Vural S. Nevzat Don't Fear Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0865par0922	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0863par0923	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0866par0924	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0863par0925	Mr. Vural, who will speak?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0867par0926	Motive.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0863par0927	I'm reading the reason: Our constitutional system has been introduced according to the principle of separation of forces, and state bodies have been given powers and responsibilities under that principle. It's the rule of law that enforces the principle of separation of forces, which sustains it. It has to be legitimate. An independent and impartial judiciary is also essential for the mention of a fully legal state. Claims, such as the politicalisation of the judiciary, eliminate the image of the state of law. Aware of this erosion, the public responses and judicial reform packages are opening up one after another to eliminate this negative atmosphere, and thus the public is stalling. The 3rd, which has created high expectations in society. The package of judicial reform has been seen to be far from meeting those expectations. The main reason is to speed up the judiciary and reduce the burden of heavy labor. However, the third judicial reform package was also born dead, without any concrete suggestions to carry out these goals. The changes made in the Law on Instance and Bankruption, the Law on Punishment and Punishment, the Law on Punishment and Punishment, and other laws will continue to wait for years in the gates of our people, by not contributing to the swift, fair and effective fulfillment of the judiciary. Judicial decisions will always be controversial and condemned on the scales of justice. The Justice and Development Party, which has ruled alone for 10 years, has not only solved chronicized problems in the country, but has always used the power given by the nation to exploit them. And today, with the bill that he's brought to Congress, he's decided to solve the problem that's been chronically chronicized for years, by pretending to do it, to keep the public busy again.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0868par0942	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0863par0943	There's a request for roll call before we submit the motion to your votes, and we're doing it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Fırat, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Özgündün, Mr. Acar, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Azar, Mr. Akinci, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Tüğeli, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Değirinderereli, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Batum, Mr. Batum, Mr. I'll give you a minute, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Law number 2577 replaced with Article 54 of the bill. In Article (1), we offer and propose that a billion liras of the article be changed to ▪ Twenty thousand Turkish liras. Ali Ihsan Kokturk (Zonguldak) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0869par0959	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0863par0960	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0870par0961	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0871par0962	Flood Köse...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0863par0963	Mr. Köse, please.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0872par0965	Mr. President, dear MPs, first of all, I'd like to condemn a Minister of Justice, who has lost the sense of justice that the Civil Code has abused him, who no one in the legal state can call Minister of Justice. My dear friends, we haven't done enough yet! My dear friends, I was at Silivri last week.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0873par0967	Go again!
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0872par0968	Hopefully, there's a country service there, and we'll go again, and we'll go ten times. I was in Silivri, I visited the chief of staff who was a terrorist organization criminal, but I also visited a 25-year-old boy, Barış Terakoğlu. Peace Terakoglu said: "We are in isolation here. Humanity is a great thing, but our biggest problem here is that there is no justice. There is no justice here. He said, unfortunately, I want to remind the Minister of Justice of this. My dear friends, we're talking about some laws on the activation of judicial services here today, but no matter what constitution, whatever law, whatever regulations, whatever regulations you change, you're not going to be able to do any good after you don't change their heads. The practitioners of these changes have prejudices, without a sense of justice, with a mortgage placed on their wills, ideas, and thoughts, without a conscience, you can't bring them to justice. (HPP applause) As justice is at the back of the camp in our country, look for it so that you can find it. My dear friends, can you call a lawyer hiding in his robe when there are great tremors in society? I'm asking you. In which republic can the prosecutors who serve the congregations be called the public prosecutors? (Applause from the ranks of CHP) Before he doubles his orders from the congregation, in what legal state can judges be called a judge who decided to arrest patriots, intellectuals, revolutionaries of the 2000s? In what legal state can the Minister of Justice be called the minister of justice, who strives to maintain his political position by blocking injustices, corruption, injustices, persecutions in prisons, isolation? Unfortunately, the human quality we lose most in today's Turkey is to be fair. To be fair is to give up one's rights first, to claim another's rights. The Minister of Justice has just mentioned a prime minister here who has been banned from politics for reading poetry. The Republican People's Party, who was expelled from politics for studying poetry, and the Prime Minister who was banned from politics, had the rights of others, in order to be fair, in order to be fair. And I'd like to remind you of that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, what we need most today is to take care of others and to put ourselves in the place of others. Today, we have arrested lawmakers who have been in prison for over four years, we have arrested lawmakers who have been in isolation for over three years, we have MPs who have been in solitary confinement, we have a member of another party arrested for not getting up, we have MPs from another opposition party who have been in prison for over two years under the name of the KCK investigation. This Parliament has not been able to be fair, nor has it succeeded, until it has granted the rights of those MPs. With these feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0874par0979	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0875par0980	Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Firat, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Öner, Mr. Acar, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Değirmederelı, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Special, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Tezcan. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you a minute, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0876par0991	We'd like to take another round of polls.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0875par0992	Let's vote on it, then, sir. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0876par0996	Mr. President, roll call...
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0875par0997	Requesting roll call for a substance vote Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Fırat, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Acar, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Ediboğlu, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Değirmedereli, Mr. Ekinci, Mr. Special, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Bridgelü, Mr. Eryılmaz, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Yellowbaş.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0877par0999	Mr. President, there are no two roll calls in the same article. It's an abuse of rights; it doesn't happen.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit04spe0875par1000	I'll give you a minute to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 54 is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2012-06-30sit05spe0875par0001	I now open the Sixth Session of the 128th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 278. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Under the decision taken, it is 14 p.m. on Sunday (July 1st 2012) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
