tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 110th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Denizli MP Adnan Keskin. Here you go, Mr. Keskin.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0002par0009	Mr. President, members of the General Assembly, I salute you all. Natural disasters in various residential areas of the sea have led to the destruction of the vineyards of tables and wine. The manufacturers have suffered a great deal of damage. Forty-five minutes of uninterrupted rain has caused 80 per cent loss of recollet in the orchards of Turlübey, Doğan, Oğuzköy and Yenicekent districts of Buldan district. The wounds caused by the hail's vines and fruit trees will also result in the loss of recolte and quality in the 2013 product, which is that large. The majority of damaged 10,000 acres are unfortunately out of insurance coverage. The lack of insurance coverage of the bonds has caused the damage to reach larger points. In particular, the failure caused by the application of agricultural insurance has narrowed down the insurance coverage. January, February, the fact that the frosts for March are excluded from the insurance coverage file the farmer's tendency to insurance on this issue. The vines of Kal, Bekilli, Baklan and Southern counties have lost their life due to extreme cold, and all the vines that have lost their life have dried up. In four counties, 9,000 grape growers will have to shoulder a great deal of damage due to the destruction that cannot be removed from the vines. Unfortunately, agricultural insurance keeps the damage to the trees out of the policy. Because of this obstacle in practice, all the vine trees that lost their lives due to frost have been excluded from agricultural insurance. This negativity has given new dimensions to the losses of farmers who cannot benefit from agricultural insurance. Farmers, winemakers in four counties, are facing a great deal of economic hardship. Our damaged manufacturers need to be granted the help of the state. Denizli Agricultural County Directorate has completed the necessary work, and reports of the findings have been made to the Ministry. I hope, I wish, that the attempts of many of our producers to deal with this victimization will be displayed without delay, and the government's helping hand will be brought to all of our producers in time. The damage caused by the vineyards did not affect the manufacturers alone, but the important units of the wine industry operating in the southern district of Denizli will also suffer damage. This year, there will also be serious losses due to lack of grapes in their production capacity in 2012. I salute all of you with my faith that the Department of Agriculture will hand over the government's aid to our damaged manufacturers without delay.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0003par0017	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Denizli and Denizli MP Mehmet Yüksel, who wanted to talk about the problems of the farmers due to the recent frost disaster around him. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0004par0022	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a promise to speak out of the agenda about the frosting and hailing disaster in Denizli and his district. I salute your high council. I first thank Mr. Adnan Keskin, the Republican People's Party's Denizli MP, who, for his interest and interest, has done some research on our area. My fellow lawmakers, I've had another conversation recently about insurance from this bench, agriculture insurance. Now, again, on May 10th, we have farmers who are damaged by the hailing disaster in the Denizli region, and we have fruit makers. Perhaps in the coming days -- we won't attempt -- but another disaster may follow, but the agricultural insurance, which was put into effect by our government in 2006, must be done, insured. Now, in our Denizli, we can't make up for the damage to our hedgehogs in Buldan, South Chivril districts because of the fact that the frost disaster took place outside the scope of the insurance, the fact that it occurred on January 17, 18, 19, because the eyes were out of the scope before they woke up, is now out of the scope of insurance. However, if it can be assessed under Act 2090 -- which I hope will be -- the risks outside the scope of State Supported Agriculture Insurance are 2090 -- will be assessed under the Law on Aids to Farmers Who Were Damaged by Disasters, and thus, according to the figures obtained in our counties, 96 are a total of 52 million euros in damage done in the 62,773 bond of our 3,328 farmers. Because these bonds, the shoulders, can now be productive between at least two years and five years before it comes back to life. For that reason, it will be reported to the General Directorate of Agriculture Reform, then evaluated by the Ministry of Agriculture, and hopefully to postpone debts in this sense, in accordance with reports by our Denizli County Agriculture Directorate, in order to bring up the interestless delay of our farmers' loans. Other than that, there were also 1,278 other damage to Buldan, South Ryl, Chirril in Denizli on 10 May, as well as 1.278 of the disasters that occurred in our districts, and in addition to that, on Fridays, Saturdays, our Agricultural County Manager, MP friends, Bilal Ucar Bey, other deputies, who met with our farmers in that area, who were in that area, met with our agricultural chamber presidents, and they examined their damage assessments in place, and again, with the involvement of the TARSIM District Department, with a group of 30 people who were in this area, with 60 people who were in the area, with this area. As a result, it is their greatest advantage here, that we do not repeat these events, that our citizens must be under TARSIM insurance to ensure that when they are damaged by these hails, frosts, floods, and other disasters, they will surely be able to compensate for their losses. Because it's a revolution by our government, 70 years old, the dream of our farmer's farm insurance is paid 50 per cent by our government in 2006, and the other 50 per cent, my dear friends, after the product has been removed, it's paid by our farmer, and it's not paid in advance. In this sense, we see how important insurance is, and in these days of natural disasters, this insurance has been activated. We wish that our farmers, outside of this underwear, in the case of the frosts, would be included in the coverage of the external section, to be considered primarily as a disaster, and to be insured by the TARSIM again during the next year, and to support the work of our government at the point of providing the harm of our farmers. I wish all our farmers well from here, good work.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0005par0031	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici, who asked for a comment on the problems of Şanlıurfa. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0006par0036	Mr. President, I have made a promise today to bring the problems of Urbana to the agenda. I salute you all. Of course, Urbana has unemployment problems, investment problems, education and health problems, water problems, agriculture and livestock problems, but unfortunately local executives are otherwise engaged in other tasks. The real problem is the issue of justice and democracy, which is locked up in the issue of injustice and democracy. Because of AKP's practices, the land of the prophets is now a land of lawlessness and injustice. Justice was destroyed in Urbana. The law is suspended, democracy is on the shelf, freedoms are within four walls. A new one is added every day to political genocide operations. From our mayors to our mayors, from our mayors to our members of parliament, to our party leaders and members, they were arrested by all the people involved in the democracy and politics. This is the AKP's success. The will of the people is handcuffed in Urbana. Our elected MP, Mr. İbrahim Ayhan, is being held prisoner in prison. The AKP carried out all unlawfulness, all impropriety, all non-political, unethical, and even immoral things to capture, to take over the people of Urbana. There is, in short, a siege of the AKP. In order for the BDP to not conduct politics in Urbana, especially the Governor of Urbana, the Deputy Chief of Police, police chiefs and prosecutors have stepped in. The state is the AKP (AKP) and has declared war on the BDP (BDP). The goal is to take Urbana. They don't want democratic politics, opposition politics, publicist, liberal politics to develop there. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's a very clear gang formation there. This dark formation, bringing law, justice underfoot, is arresting our political staff in conspiring against our politicians to open up spaces for the AKP, to create a chance for them. In short, Ergenekon, JITEM, is the AKP. Against the free will of the Kurdish people, the AKP has become almost a nimrod, but they will not succeed, they will not succeed. The people of Urbana are a people of honor, who will hold their honour, who will not surrender, who know that the inhabitants of Urfa will not submit to AKP's persecution policies, nor will they kneel to anyone. Let me give you a brief example: Last week, our co-chair, Selahattin Demirtaş, arrived at Urbana. The entrance to Urbana was almost surrounded. The road to Gaziantep, the road to Viranşehir, the road to Ceylanpınar, and the way to Siverek, was closed with the TOMA, and with armoured vehicles. Here's what we're saying: if you don't tell the governors of the AKP... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If they've given this authority, they need to get their hands off this authority immediately. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0007par0047	Thank you. Mr. Shandır, you have a request for a statement.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0008par0051	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The disaster of the frosts, mentioned by naval lawmakers, is happening not only in Denizli, but in many parts of our country. I wish both the sea farmer and the rest of our citizens well. Unfortunately, such disasters occur during harvest time in Iğdır, Mersin, in most parts of Turkey, but what is painful is that our farmer is left alone with his own pain. At this point, we warn the government every time. So it doesn't make any sense if a farmer is expected to lose 40 percent of his property by this disaster law. For him, the damage our farmers suffer in the face of certain disasters must be met by the government, by the government, by the community. We have no right to leave the people who live on their hands to their fates. At this point, there's also disaster in Mersin, especially the apricot manufacturers...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0007par0054	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey On March 16, 1978, in the bombing and armed massacre of students leaving İstanbul University, Cemil Sönmez, Baki Eziz, Ahmet Turan Ören, Murat Kurt, Abdullah Simsek, Hatice Özen, Abdulhamit Mind were killed, many students were injured. Av, a friend of the young people who died in 1995 who made the case reopened. Cem Alptekin, your massacre is 32. On his anniversary, he announced to the press that the first trial was closed as anonymity after five defendants were acquitted for lack of evidence; that they reopened the case in 1988, calling for public testimony; that the Isot family was brought forward after the murder of the Prime Minister and after the trial of Susur in 1992; and that the indictments of the incumbent on the murder of the incumbent on the count of the incumbent on the court, and that the indictment of the murder of the incumbents of the People of the People of the Court, and that the indictment of the People of the Court, which they had filed after the murder, and that they had filed in 1995, and that the case of the trial of the People of the People of the People of the People of the Court, had not been informed, but that the court had asked to release of the People of the court, that the court, and that they had brought the court to issue of the court to issue of the court, and that its murder of the court, and that its murder of the court had brought the court to issue of the case of the case of the case of the indictment and that its. On the grounds that the trial has been blocked and that there has been no progress in the trial in December 1997, in order to protest the public pressures brought against the defendants, as well as all the criminal killings and killings filed against the defendants, in the case, there has been no progress in the case, there has been years of routine hearings, the deadline has been filled with the court's decision on October 20, 2008, as well as the court's final decision that the case has been overturned, after which the trial had been ruled by the trial, after the trial had been closed, after the trial, after the trial had been ruled by the trial, after the trial of the trial had been overturned, after the trial and the trial had been overturned. The verb and perpetrator connection between the massacres of 1 May 1977 and 16 March 1978, as well as the killings of 1 September 1977 and 16 March 1978, as well as the fact that there is a power above the state's will, as well as the state's state's state's rule of affairs, as well as the state's law, which is based on the United States, as well as that of the misdemeanor activity, covered by the March 1, 1977 and 16th 1978 massacres of Turkey; the existence of a state's unknown killing in the judicial process; the basis of the state's rule of law, as well as the fact that it is being covered up by the criminality of the state, by which it is said to be covered up by the criminalities, and how its alleged to have been handled by the crimes, by the crimes, by which the government has been blocked by the authorities and by the authorities, by which had been involved in the process of the process and by the process, by which its crimes and by which had been committed, by the government, by the government, by which had been obstructed, by the government, by the alleged by the terrorist and by the alleged, by the government, by the police, by the alleged, by the alleged, by the alleged, by the government, by the police, by the police, by the police, by the police, by the police, by the police, by the police, by the police, by the police, by the police, by the police, by the police, by the police, by the police, by the police, by the authorities and by the authorities, by the police, by the authorities, by the authorities and by the authorities, by the authorities and by the authorities, by the authorities, by the authorities and by the authorities, by the authorities and by the authorities, by the authorities, by the authorities, by the authorities, by the authorities, by the authorities, by the authorities, by the authorities, by the authorities, by the authorities and by the authorities, by the authorities, by the authorities, by the authorities, by the police, by the authorities, by the police, by the authorities, by the police, by the authorities, by the authorities, by the authorities, by the authorities, by the authorities, by the authorities and by the authorities, by the authorities, by the authorities, by the authorities, by the authorities In the democratic state of law, it is everyone's primary duty to oppose all interventions against democracy and the will of the people, to defend democracy and law. Enlightenment of dark events, unlawful organisation and the discovery of structures within the state that have laid the groundwork for interfering with democracy is the primary task of the TBMM. For the reasons that have been announced, we ask that Parliamentary Research be carried out on March 16, 1978 on the student massacre of the students under the relevant provisions of the Constitution and the Institution. 1) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] 3) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] 7) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 8) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Artvin]] [[Gaziantep]] 12) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Adana]] 15) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Hatay]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] 25) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Manisa]] 27) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Army]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Regarding the problems of small trades, grocery stores and small markets, the unemployment issue and the urgent measures that need to be taken if these problems are not resolved, the Constitution is 98. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter 104 and 105. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of Parliamentary Research. [[Slap]] [[İzmir]] [[Elizipt]] [[Adana]] 5) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Kayseri]] [[Lug]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 11) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] 14) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Kütahya]] [[Adana]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Antalya]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Inconceived]] [[Manisa]] In the free market economic models, we believe that the most important element in the stable functioning of the national economy and the Sosyo-Economic structure is that it is also based on rights, based on rights, and protective of the parties. Since there is no law that regulates the opening and working of supermarkets and hypermarkets operating in our country, the districts and districts are opening branches and growing rapidly. However, this unjust and unjust situation fuels the most painful aspect of capitalism - unfair competition. These large markets, especially grocery stores, have interrupted the trade and artist's work in almost every business hall, and have broken the competitiveness. Because the daily promotions and the late-night working order of our tradesmen couldn't keep up. Thus, the tradesman and artist are in danger of being destroyed in the production and service industry. Today our merchants, all over our country, are fighting for our grocery store to live, not to close my shop, let me work. As soon as the fighting forces are over, thousands of people will join the unemployed army. But let's take a look at the world -- there are many laws in EU countries that protect tradesmen and artists and small entrepreneurs. The small tradesman is protected by the artistic state and the public. The Constitution of the Republic of Turkey has taken protective, supportive measures, but so far no protective and protective measures have been taken. In our country, many super and hypermarkets are virtually out of domesticity, in the hands of global capital. As long as the practices continue, more and more tradesmen will be shut down, which will become an environment in which a number of major companies are in control of the oligopol markets. In this case, more tradesmen in many of our country's cities, which are already suffering from transportation and marketing, will have to close down their business, unemployment and economic crisis will be felt more. The situation within the national economy of the Esnaf and our Artists, considered the capillaries of ekonomis, will be possible with the healthy functioning of the law, which will be new, which covers everyone fairly. Our tradesmen and artists are the essential stone of the regional and general economy and insurance of employment and stability. So the immediate removal of the Retail Act was a necessary task for the TBMM (TBMM), and the task must be carried out immediately in order for us to address the difficulties of our tradesman and Artist. While legal arrangements are being made, the local domestic market chain must be set up in a legal framework. At least from now on, the national market networks must have a legal arrangement for out-of-town installations. We've drawn up a motion to investigate these people's emergency problems and to determine the measures that need to be taken. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Human health, environmental and economic damage to illegal cigarettes is known. In an effort to prevent, prevent, market, and minimize the damage done to the economy by illegal cigarettes smuggled into our country, the Constitution is 98. And the TBMM Charter 104. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, I respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research. [[Bitlis]] [[Elizipt]] 3) Mohamed Murtaza Kığ [[Adıyaman]] [[Inconceived]] [[Pain]] [[Kars]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Mardin]] [[Diyarbakır]] 12) Stopped Mehmet Kastal [[Osmaniye]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Bayburt]] [[Isparta]] [[Denizli]] 17) Mehmet Kerim Yıldız [[Pain]] [[Aydın]] [[Erzurum]] [[Yozgat]] 21) Mehmet Emin Dindar [[Şırnak]] There are many types of smuggling in our country. Drugs, fuel, cigarettes, alcohol, etc. Smuggling is a form of cigarette smuggling, which has a major economic impact on health, environment and economic areas. Fugitive cigarettes are produced by businesses that are not officially operating abroad and are smuggled into our country illegally. Smoking is known for its health hazards. According to a study conducted in England, cadmium was found five times higher than arsenic six times; tar was found to be 160 percent higher than nicotine, 80 percent more than carbon monoxide. Health problems arise when people who do not smoke are directly or indirectly affected. Smoking also has a great deal of damage to the environment. It has been discovered that 70 percent of the world's fires are caused by smoking and have destroyed thousands of hectares of forests. In 2010, the Police General Directorate found that smuggling cigarettes to Turkey has increased. According to the 2010 official data, 1,200,000 packs were seized in Şanlıurfa, 1 million 635,500 packs in Hatay, 1 million 853,500 packs in Istanbul, Düzce and Zonguldak. The size of cigarette smuggling in Turkey has been increasingly organised and larger in recent years. So much so that after international drug cartels and terrorist organizations such as the PKK discovered large money from cigarette smuggling, the sector almost changed and headed for this area. So a container of illegal cigarettes has an estimated $90,000 production and transportation cost. That's until we reach the border. But when Turkey is introduced and distributed, it is worth $1,600,000. In other words, each container has a million dollars in unfair earnings. According to the 2010 official records, the security forces carried out 20,532 operations and 28.642 people were taken into custody in these operations. The package of cigarettes caught is 76,585,011. Turkey has 25,000 tonnes of illegal cigarettes per year. So one out of every six cigarettes is a fugitive. According to official institutions, the economy is losing $1 billion per year and $2 billion according to tobacco experts. In fact, these numbers are estimated to be greater. The loss of that amount in just one pen is a great loss to the economy. Given the major damage it has done to health, the environment and the economy, the necessary measures must be taken for the introduction and sale of illegal cigarettes to our country. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The Party of Peace and Democracy has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: 11:05.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot be assembled on Wednesday 23,05.2012 (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 17 February 2012, it was suggested that a review of the thermal water source found in the village of Hajirs in the Boringöl Karliova District (606 rows), which was given by Bingl MP Idris Baluken and his friends (606 rows), be read in the same edition of the Parliamentary Research Front, which was given to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in order to investigate the cause of public and public benefit, and be presented in the same session Wednesday (March 23,05.2012). The Peace and Democracy Party Group Proposal has asked for a vote in favour of İdris Baluken, Bingol MP.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0009par0241	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge in favor of our group's research motion for thermal water in the village of Hajir, Karliova County. I salute your committee. During this winter, our fellow lawmakers have tried to bring up the problems of Bingley here many times -- talks of the General Assembly, research proposals, commission work on different platforms. However, unfortunately, I would like to point out again that the current government and the AKP have been severely insensitive to the problems of the province in which you have the highest authority in Turkey. An approach to all the suggestions that we've come up with, in a preconceived prejudice against all the motions, and to reject all our demands and suggestions, unfortunately, has still caused the problems in Bingol to continue painfully, and to grow more and more like a snowball. One of them is the public-inflicted situation after the tender phase and the tender for thermal water in the village of Hajis. I will also take a statement in the International Agreement Department regarding the other problems of Bingöl. I will make a statement to the General Kurula and Turkey to inform the public. However, on behalf of the people of Bingol, we especially ask for your sensitivity to thermal water in this Pilgrims. Look, when this thermal water is found, it's described as a first-degree quality according to thermal water properties; it has a fluid of about 500 meters deep, 70 degrees Celsius and 30 to 35 litres per minute. The tender process for this thermal water, the transfer of the tender, the responses to the public after the tender process were carried out in total secrecy, and so to speak, I've done it. It's been done. It's been entered into a study, such as being introduced. In the motions we've brought here in particular, since you've been highly biased and voted on, I'll explain the veracity of the situation to you from the election statements and from the current statements of the AKP MPs. See, the tender process for this thermal source water is developing: Bingol is being fully hidden from the public, from the Bingol press, and is being auctioned off with a tender ad published on the official website of MTA (MTA). There's only one company that's bidding, and this company is getting a very funny number like $470,000 in thermal spring water with billions of dollars in revenues. I'd like to share with you here some of the things that Bingol lawmakers used in the election declarations earlier. Bingöl MP --AK PARTI candidate -- Eşref Taş has stated in the election declaration that thermal water found by MTA about 45km away in our Karliova region is flowing 33 litres per second. Our Congressman friend, who counts the properties of thermal water, particularly in the heating systems, has suggested a significant response to the need for heating our dwellings and businesses, saying that a large tourist thermal complex here will make our region and our province a center of attraction. I read exactly what Ashraf Stone used to say in the election declaration: "If we make this investment happen, a billion-dollar export will be made available to our province." • So a project that will provide a billion-dollar export revenue, 470,000 dollars, a tender entered by a single company, is being hidden from the Bingöl public and from the public in Turkey -- if I am in the right place -- is being taken away from the public and from Turkey. It is important to state in particular that the tender process is also a complete violation of the Law on Privatisation Applications 4046. In particular, there are regulations for the cancellation of Article 13 (b) of privatisation due to the activities of the monopoly of processes. Look, the company that received this tender, the Self-Builders, is the company that has the right to operate all the thermal waters currently available in Bingol. The power to operate thermal water is owned by the Self-Builders Corporation, located in the spa area and in the Hamams region. Here's a thermal facility run by the County Special Administration for the purpose of its Self-Builders company to provide a better rate in the Ilica area, where locals use it for lower prices -- I'm in its right position -- and it's being thrown into ruin. After the State Special Administration facility is destroyed, the Self-Builders company raises its current thermal water use prices by 50 per cent, so the company, which holds thermal water in the Ilica area, is there, in that area, allowing our people in that village to make an attempt to provide a runt that can't be used by thermal water for healing. Here is the firm, which is in search of such a runt in the Ijicans, taking a tender, which is said to be a multibillion-dollar return for Bingol in Hajis, in secret -- if I'm right -- to be pursued. Look, I'm reading the statement that Abdurrahman Anik gave to the Bingol press, particularly the AKP MP of the 22nd term -- sitting in your rows a couple of semesters ago -- that the tender was seen to be far from the principle of transparency. All the people of Bingol have rights here. If it was to be tendered, it would have to be done in a transparent form of public knowledge instead of using a thermal hotel or another purpose. If there's something going on under the table, it's definitely going to have to intervene and go to the aborting agency. The point of transparency must be discussed here. Our AKP MP friend used these sentences two semesters ago. The authorities need to call it off as soon as possible. It had to be made public. It's not fair. It is also the duty of the rulers to prevent this injustice. Look, again, I'm reading the statement of AKP's Serdar Atalay, who is now mayor of Bingol, about the tender process and the evaluation of thermal water in the Bingol press. The pilgrims are describing the process of finding water, our current mayor, and he says: "We were all planning to be brought in to be used in greenhousery, thermal tourism, with a project that the municipality could share through Special Administration. Unfortunately, we were informed after the tender for the resource transfer was completed. I'm so sorry. It could have been used in many needs. I take it it's the wrong choice that this source was sold to the private sector. After the tender, I also gave my opinion to Mr. Taner Yıldız Bey, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. I have stated that this water will bring serious benefits to the city. After the tender, there's nothing we can do. No notice has been made regarding the tender process. I also informed the Minister that our government is against the principle of transparency. Even if it's in the ad, local actors need to be notified. Our municipality and the State Special Administration could've given us a higher sum together. This could be turned into a project and financed as part of the Development Agency or the EU Project. There has been no tender for the general interests of Bingley. Look, the reason we're saying in particular in the mouth of the AKP MP and the mayor is that when we bring a proposal here with our opposition party identity, you lose your judgment, you lose your ability to distinguish right from wrong, you reflexly raise your finger in the form of rejection against the suggestion we offer. Here, there's a controversial, back-to-back tender process, there's an investment area that's said to be worth billions of dollars to a city, but this entire investment area has been operated to get into the monopoly of a businessman, and AKP's representatives and executives in the local area are uncomfortable with it. After this picture, the people of Bingol expect you not to vote for this research proposal because we have expressed it here, but also for the public and for us. Starting with this tender process, I'd like to express from here the expectation that a research commission for the problems that Bingley has experienced should be established and that important projects for the solution should be implemented immediately. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0010par0257	Thank you. Afif Demirkıran, Siirt MP.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0011par0260	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, of course, this group proposal brought by the Peace and Democracy Party, if it should occupy the Parliament's time, perhaps we should discuss it as well. I respect that.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0012par0261	Don't, don't do this!
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0013par0262	Don't, don't, don't! Don't say such things!
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0011par0263	Alim Hodja, just a second... Mr. Idris did his part in bringing up a subject of his own province here, of course, but I don't think it should be simplified that way, the picture is much bigger. What is Turkey's geothermal potential? What is Turkey's energy requirement? How much of the geothermal potential in Turkey has been assessed? Are there any calls? Can these be used properly? Is this a government policy or a government policy? What kind of picture do we face when we carry it from past to future to future generations? We need to talk about this here, negotiate. I said it in that way, or it's not because I underestimated the motion that Idris Bey brought here. Dear friends, of course, there are over 100 geothermal fields in the village of Bingol Karliova Hajir, as in many parts of Turkey. Most of them are in the West, but the place is in Southeast Anatolia, and East Anatolia, and our geothermal resources are used in three, even four main sectors, one of which is energy, which is used to produce the most electrical energy in the world. We need a high temperature here, a temperature above 120 degrees, and when we look at it, the geothermal potential that is now being produced in Turkey is 114 megawatts. This will go up to 650 megawatts along with the investments that have been acquired over the next few years, and our ultimate goal is to use the geothermal potential used in this electricity energy up to 1,500 megawatts. The search continues, there are new areas where the temperature is high, and hopefully there are more potentials, and it will serve electricity as a local source because -- indeed, we've said so many times from this podium -- unfortunately, 72% of Turkey's energy imports are covered by imported sources. We have the consumption of 109-110 million tons of oil a year, but 28 percent of that we use from domestic sources; natural gas is very low, oil is very low, and we're going to start using solar energy seriously in the coming period. So what I want to say is that our government is increasing its policy rate of placement because otherwise, we're always paying a very large bill every year abroad. Last year, 2011, our energy bill was unfortunately $54 billion, and our price for energy imports was $54 billion. For him, we have to develop our local resources. So when we evaluate our energy sources, our power sources -- any energy source -- oil, natural gas, coal, coal, wind, hydroelectric, and the sun -- there's no way we can do that with the government's current budget. So, what are we supposed to do? We need to open up the private sector, local-foreigner. When a foreign company comes to Turkey, when it is founded according to Turkish law, it is now an Indian firm, subject to equal treatment. Thus, the MTA has been able to transfer the fields it has detected over the years to the private sector by tendering them over time. Eighty-three fields have been handed over so far, and one of them is the territory in Bingol Karliova, which Idris Bey had just mentioned. In his speech, Mr. Idris used something like this, he said... he expressed some doubts, doubts and hoarding of an AK PARTY MP who was a member of the first term AK PARTI government here.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0014par0266	The mayor says the same thing, right now he's the mayor.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0011par0267	I'm sure the mayor told you. I'll get to another point from here. So this field has been asked to be tendered since before 2007. So, when's the deadline? 2011 is the eighth month.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0014par0269	Not at all.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0011par0270	In all this time, this field has been retrialed, and everyone knows that it's never been behind closed doors...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0014par0271	This water was found in 2010, Congressman, you're misinformation.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0011par0272	...is not far from forgiveness, in a completely transparent environment, within everyone's knowledge, and 470,000...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0014par0273	There is no water found in 2007, and you speak without knowing.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0011par0274	But you're saying that Mr. Abdurrahman mentioned that Mr. Abdurrahman was a member of parliament before 2007.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0014par0275	Mr. Abdurrahman was talking about the tender process. The water is found in 2010. Let's get ready and talk.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0011par0276	So, this field was transferred with $470,000. The important thing, I think, is that the people of Bingol are here to support this firm -- because it can only be used for accommodation, or rather as a health spa -- to get this company to build relevant facilities there, and that's when the revenue that our congressman friends and our mayor say will be available. As long as that field stays underground, as long as that water stays underground, it's of no use to anyone. Look, from time to time, we have a billion-dollar debt reserve that will last the world for 400 years, more than 70 percent of the world's reserves are in Turkey. So, is there any way that we can get this into the economy right now in a year, three years, five years? No. Then, if we put forward a thesis today, as if his total income could be immediately brought into the economy, it would mean deceiving ourselves and our people. From that point on, I'm saying that my Bingöl brothers and sisters -- I wish we had a geothermal field like this in our province. In fact, I told the MTA General Directorate, please give it to someone at once without taking any price, but by taking the commitment to building a facility. Friend, if you don't build this facility in this time period, I'll take it back from you. Therefore, the important thing here is to build the facility, to invest, to open the way for it. Now, of course, I have a minute or two. Dear friends, when I talked about your geothermal potential, I told you the part about energy. The part about the greenhouse... Now his second use was greenhousery. Currently 2,800 acres of greenhouses are operating on geothermal water in Turkey, and the goal is to rise to 20,000 acres. It's an important target, a beautiful target, and in order to achieve that goal, of course, the fields in the hands of MTA (MTA) or areas in the private sector that the private sector has identified, provided, found, or tried to find with new drillings, will be transferred to the private sector. I guess we can't expect the government to run a greenhouse. We can't wait. When we just spoke to the Director General of MTA... he's still doing geothermal drilling at the MTA in Bingol. We need to support this, we need to thank you. Come on in and make more calls. Make a search for oil, search for natural gas, search for coal, search for minerals, search for geothermal fields. We have enough geothermal potential for 1 million square meters in Turkey and Turkey. These are important potentials. In Europe, if I guess, we're number one.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0015par0280	Consider the potential, Congressman, consider it.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0011par0281	Here, we need to clear the way for the private sector to assess potential.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0015par0282	That's not how you do it; you do it, you do it.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0011par0283	If we try to deter people from doing business, from investing, with these forms of proposals, unfortunately, we can't evaluate the potential.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0016par0284	We're deterring corruption, Congressman, we're deterring corruption. We're trying to stop people from stealing their stuff.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0011par0285	So, my dear friends, I believe that this motion may be in the form of a drop in the larger picture, but when it comes to Bingol, all politicians in Bingol have to open the way for the project and make an effort to establish the facility at once, and I express it from here, and I salute you all with respect that I am against the motion.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0017par0287	Thank you. It's Aytug Horseman, Mersin MP who's in favor of the proposal.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0018par0290	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of the BDP group proposal. I salute all lawmakers who favor labor and sweat. Dear lawmakers, today KESK is doing its duty throughout the country, and using its power from production to strike, you're all aware. I invite the worker to question whether there are any feelings of shame left for those who have received this ridiculous raise, and I salute all the workers in the fields who are struggling to work, with love and respect from this stand of the nation. Dear MPs, the province of Bingöl is a very special city that lives in every difficult situation in the east, struggles with terror on one side, struggles with the earthquake on the other, deals with economic difficulties on the other side, deals with pushing and identity issues, constantly migrates, but despite all of that, stands firm with honorable people. I too am proud, proud to be the volunteer MP of this city, and I pay every opportunity to pay a visit to Bingöl, and closely observe their problems. For three days last week, I was in Bingol, and I traveled all over Bingol, and I was informed of the problems. But today, when we're talking about the problems of Bingöl, the MP of the BDP is speaking, the MP of the CHP is speaking voluntarily, but there is no MP to talk about Bingöl.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0019par0293	I'm here.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0018par0294	A congressman doesn't talk. We turn around and look...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0020par0295	We're all deputies everywhere, members of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0018par0296	Of course, we're all Turkish MPs, sir, but Bingol is a special city. The people of Bingol want their elected MPs to address their problems from this bench by the minister of their choice. What day do you two go out and talk? We're talking about Bingöl. Where's the minister? Bingöl sent a minister out here, where did the minister go when he was discussing the problems of Bingley? No. But I'll tell you what he says in a moment. Now look...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0021par0297	I'm here.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0018par0298	I'll tell you where you are now, and I'll tell you right now, if you're so curious. Look, when we look at the sociopolitic structure of Bingley, we see a conservative structure. The people of Bingol trusted you, trusted the AKP, and supported this party, for the most part. In 2007, he sent three deputies to parliament, three of them from the AKP, but the next thing he knew, he was always disappointed. A servant of God doesn't come out here to speak of the problems of Bingley. He looked at the minister, and the minister said that, as he did not bring it up in any way, corruption took its toll, and in the 2011 elections, he sent one MP from BDP to choose our voice from the BDP. So he's punishing you. Is he wrong? He is right, because you have not looked after Bingol, and you shall not go out. The next election will be called by us to appoint an MP from Bingol, where we will echo the voice of Bingol, the voice of the east, the voice of the southeast, and you will be aware of that. Now, the BDP group proposal has come up, and I've brought up the same question as before. I gave a question proposal, and I said that a drill was done by the Department of Mining Study and Search in the village of Karliova, Bingöl Province, in the village of Hacıs, and its economic value was high. Look -- lawmakers who know the people there -- the nation within the factory will contribute to the welfare, the economic value of a high geothermal water, and the Minister of Development Cevdet Yilmaz, said that this natural resource is the very essence of Bingöl. He said, "Look, let the people control their talks." He said, "The people of the region will be useful, they will contribute to prosperity, and the people will be unemployed." When I got there, he said, "There's water here, what can we do with this water?" We heat our homes -- the stables there are as important as houses -- because livestock is the source of people's life, and if there's anything left of you -- we'll heat up our stables, use them in greenhousery, and even to make tourist facilities in the West. What happened? One morning, they woke up, and they saw that this hot water source was completely sold out, handed over to someone in a tender. It's a joke. It's a joke.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0022par0301	Why don't you just go in there and go in there?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0018par0302	I'm not a merchant like you. I'm a congressman, and I don't cooperate with merchants, and never forget that. You have ruined all the dreams of the people of Bingol. I don't care who gets the contract, I care about the corruption of this tender. My concern is that with this tender, you disappoint the people of Bingol. Look, I told the two ministers about this, that question. One is our Energy Minister Taner Yildiz. I've filed a question motion. Look how funny it answered me. I said, "Jeothermal water resources can be used to benefit the people by the government." Look, by the state hand, I'm not talking about the contract here. We say these resources can be used by the government to benefit the public. For what reasons did you pass on your right to use it? This reason, this reason, is it superior to the common good of the people? It's like comedy: it was discovered by my master MTA. The MTA took the geothermal resources in question by law and so forth. If it is desired, it will be used in greenhouse services. Is that funny? What kind of an empty answer is that? You will present this place to the public's benefit, but with the owner's hand. Won't the manager make a profit here? He will. What do you stand for as a government? Why don't you use it for the public's benefit and you're up to it? Who's going to pay for the use of water here? You'll get it from these people again. We asked: which companies attended the tender, what price is the tender? The answer is: I thought a lot of companies were involved, one company was involved. And since it's on the Internet, I'm telling you, the Self-Builders Construction Industry Company. For $470,000, except for VAT, that sounds like a lot to you, doesn't it? I'll tell you in a minute, remember this number, people of Bingol, remember, 470 million... excuse me, I'm wrong, $470,000. That's a funny number. They bid $470,000, 20 percent in advance, four years in installments, not four months, but four years in installments, dear friends. And then I said, "What other companies have joined?" No one else has attended. I will soon bring them up in matters of corruption. We said, well, come on, you paid $470,000, again, by law, after expenses are down, you'll have to pay the Bingol County Special Administration, and you'll have to transfer half the money to the Bingol County Special Administration. How much did you transfer? Look, the Bingol County Special Administration is a structure that will directly serve the people of Bingol. They stood up and said to us, "Lord, hand in hand, head in head." How do you get hands, head in head? The expenses are 470,000, so we gave it to 470,000, and we didn't provide a penny for the people of Bingol. Signed: Taner Yıldız. Of course, we were very angry, and during a discussion here, we also asked Cevdet Yilmaz. We said, "Sister, don't you ever feel ashamed when you're doing this water?" His answer to us, sir, is that you're going to make this a question motion. So... give us a lot of questions, and we'll call you the question motion champion at work. He's coming out, the AKP MP speaking for Bingol here, and he says: "You're keeping the people busy with the problems of Bingley." I'm complaining, yes, we're occupying the House with the Bingol issues. We don't act like you, you've ruined Bingol, and we're talking about those problems here. What does the Minister of Bingol say? He says: "I am the sentry here." As soon as that happens, you ask questions, you put us in a difficult position. That's exactly what he said. And then we go on with our questions, and we say, "Yahu, this was supposed to be for the benefit of the people, why are you doing this?" He says: "Sister, we found water here, of course we will use it. Did we take the water with others, as if we had deprived Bingol?... Whose words did it sound like? Sounds like the Prime Minister. When he sold the land here, the Prime Minister said, "What, did they take the land and take it away?" The land is here again. There are reports. He also says that you applauded the minister's speech, as well as his applause from the AKP ranks. So he's selling Minister Bingöl's water, and you're clapping, good for you!
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0023par0312	Thank you. Kemalettin Yilmaz, MP of Afyonkarahisar, who has asked against the proposal.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0024par0315	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, if we as a country don't want to be the poor custodian of rich resources -- which we don't -- it has to be removed from our natural resources and presented to our people's services, which, of course, shouldn't be wasted when we use them. We, the National Movement Party, have asked for a parliamentary investigation into the use of effective geothermal resources and the use of geothermal resources in the province of Afyonkarahisar, which is a rich province of geothermal resources, in order to determine and determine ways of solutions, to investigate ways of support, to make administrative and institutional legal arrangements. It's very important that this parliamentary research commission is established, and this issue is addressed throughout Turkey, and we, the National Movement Party, are very concerned about it. Geothermal resources have many advantages. It is particularly a geothermal renewable, sustainable, inexhaustible source of energy, and a resource for geothermal energy such as Turkey. It's clean and eco-friendly, and geothermal causes nearly zero emissions because the burn technology isn't being used. In housing, agriculture, industry, greenhouse warming and so on, it provides ideal conditions for multi-purpose warming practices. Its independence from meteorological conditions such as wind, rain, sun, its readiness to use, its cheaper than fossil energy or other sources of energy, its ability to transform search wells directly into production facilities and sometimes renjection fields, its credibility, since it does not contain risk factors such as fire, explosions, poisoning, has many advantages. In production of geothermal energy and other forms of energy, in contrast to hydroelectricity, solar, wind, fossil energy, the minimal need for plant space, because of its locality, the impact of imports and exports from international conjunctives, crises, wars, the fuel-oil of housing, fuel-oil, coal, wood transports, and so on, for reasons such as the comfort of the use of geothermal resources in the area. As in our country, there are very serious geothermal sources in our province of Afyonkarahisar, which at some point, is called geothermal resources, at some point the capital of thermal is called Afyonkarahisar, and for this purpose, both at the point of health tourism and in agricultural activities, geothermal energy is used to benefit from geothermal energy at the point of warming many housing. However, as everywhere, there are serious problems here, and we have serious problems with water management. I'm going to throw it out, about 20 liters per second of water is used for 5 liters per second, and the other 15 liters of water can be released into the environment in a way that can damage the environment. With good water management, they can be prevented, which has been done very seriously in Afyon, in the Ark. The investor is not allowed to open a well, but at the last stop, the investor is guaranteed to provide water. In this way, the waste of our natural resources has been prevented, precious MPs. While electricity is being produced from geothermal sources in many parts of the world, or in many places, housing is being used to warm up, and unfortunately in many places in our country, it can only be used in home warming or in the need of a spa, operating at a health point, but there is no activity in the production of electricity in Turkey, but we have very serious resources. As I said at the beginning, if we don't want to be the poor custodian of these rich resources, we're obliged to offer these resources to our people's service. Valuable lawmakers can be used to produce electricity from geothermal sources, at the point of central heating, central cooling, greenhouse heating, cooling practices. Proses heat supply can also be used for industrial purposes, such as drying. On the other hand, at the point of production of chemicals such as carbon dioxide, fertilizer, lithium, heavy water, hydrogen, and minerals, one of the most common points in our country is activity at the point of thermal tourism and health tourism. Especially in our provinces, such as Afyon, Kütahya, Uçak, Isparta, Bursa, and many other provinces -- as the Congressman has just stated -- we have these activities, geothermal resources, which are useful to our people as soon as possible. We, the National Movement Party, are very concerned about the matter. Opium has made some serious breakthroughs in thermal spas, especially in recent years. However, the fact that thermal water can also be used in agricultural work, greenhouse work, has also given a very serious opportunity and opportunity for technical agricultural practices. Respected lawmakers, it is possible to find geothermal resources in almost all parts of Turkey. But with geothermal resources, the earthquake phenomenon should not be forgotten, as we face an earthquake phenomenon in many of our provinces, especially Erzincan, Bingöl, Afyon, Kütahya Simav, where there are geothermal resources. And since we can't prevent this earthquake from happening, because we have to live in an earthquake, where we have geothermal resources, we need to withhold our support as a state, by providing the necessary investments, incentives, necessary support, at the point of both agricultural and heating and other energy productions around here. One of the most important issues is the fact that our geothermal waters can be used at a mineral-infested drinking water point. Honourable lawmakers, we, the National Movement Party of Turkey, have requested that a parliamentary investigation be launched to ensure that the necessary work of water management and the necessary work be done, as well as the geothermal resources in Afyon are available, whether it is possible to use them, whether it is in tar, heating, or at the point of revitalisation of thermal tourism -- are they being identified and ready to use them, while we support the proposal to be introduced to parliament on the matter of the issue of the situation and the development of the issues of the bureaucrats in Turkey, as well as well as in geothermal resources in Turkey. At this point, after many areas have been subsidized, unfortunately, many areas have been shut down by some ulterior people or organizations. People or organizations who have closed down these areas are afraid to give up their search for geothermal resources, or, as in Afyon, they demand too much and too much to open a well around here. In order to prevent these things, it is greatly beneficial for us to review the allocations that have been made around here and to offer these resources to our people through the removal of these licenses from companies or individuals who have not searched here at a certain time. I salute you all with the most heartfelt of thoughts and feelings, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0025par0330	Thank you. I submit the proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0026par0332	Mr. President, we have a request.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0025par0333	Those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0026par0334	Speaking on behalf of the EC PARTY, the MP has spoken both about the date of the tender and about the fact that we have engaged the Assembly unnecessarily. I'd like to exercise my right to answer that.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0025par0335	It's not the right to answer, it's the sarcasm. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0026par0339	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I'd like to point out that I've watched the speech of the MP speaking on behalf of the AKP with great sadness and awe. Without doing any research, without knowing the date of the tender, without knowing when the work on this water was revealed, he gave a speech that was moving round and round from right to left. We didn't bring here a critical approach to the discovery of geothermal water, which, along with the solar energy of geothermal energy, we're in a position to most advocate the use of geothermal water as an ecological paradigm, as a renewable alternative energy with wind energy. We've made this motion to investigate the corruption of this area here. This corruption is a corruption that completely affects the future of a city. The tender process is a process carried out without the knowledge of the Governorate of Bingol, the Special Administration of Bingol, even the Municipality of Bingol. It's a process that all Bingöl people need to benefit from, but it's a process that only one businessman can benefit from. Here's our Bingol MP friend, our CHP MP friend, who was speaking, if you'd entered the tender, he used a sentence like that. That mentality is already giving away the current approach. This isn't called the People of the State. Excuse me, the People of Bingol call it the Attorney General. If you're swallowing the contractor's seat to yourself, we'll leave you to the people of Bingol, and we'll report you to the people of Bingol and to the people of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0027par0345	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0028par0346	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0027par0347	Here you go, Mr. Stone.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0028par0348	I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0029par0349	There's been an open taunt, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0027par0350	Why did he pick on you, Mr. Stone?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0028par0351	He said he was a trustee.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0030par0352	Oh, that's good, that's good!
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0027par0353	Here you go, Mr. Stone. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0031par0357	Mr. President, in the election declaration on thermal water in Bingol, I said that thermal water from the village of Karliova Hajir could be used in the greenhouse and heating system and I could do studies on it when I became a MP. When I went to the Mining Study Search Institute right after election time, and I looked into it, I found out that for 36 days the Mining Study Research Institute had opened this water to the tender and that the two companies had come and received files, and that a firm had offered them. So, we were trying to use this running water as a heating system or thermal water, not a spill in the stream.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0032par0359	To pour money into someone's pocket!
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0031par0360	Of course, the tender was open to businessmen all over Turkey. I don't believe there's been any corruption in the open contract. If anyone wanted to -- he could be a Belgian businessman, he could be a businessman in Turkey -- he could go to this tender and buy this thermal water.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0033par0361	He didn't make the announcement, he didn't make the announcement!
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0032par0362	So would you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0031par0364	His announcement is all over Turkey...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0032par0366	You sold it for free, for free.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0031par0367	...it was built on the Internet.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0034par0368	Why didn't you give it to the Bingol press?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0035par0369	Thank you, Mr. Stone.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0031par0370	Secondly, Mr. Congressman says that nothing is being done to Bingöl.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0035par0371	Dear Stone, thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0031par0372	...is almost out of air...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0036par0373	Call Salim Nice, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0031par0374	...Diyarbakir-Elazım's 500 trillion-dollar project is almost over.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0037par0375	You've been putting people to sleep for years.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0031par0376	There's a railroad contract being made right now.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0037par0377	You've been putting people to sleep for years.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0038par0378	Dear Stone...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0031par0379	It's being done right now.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0039par0380	Mr. President, invite Salim Beslim to the mission.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0031par0381	For years, the entire region has been forgotten, forgotten by terror throughout the region. If it weren't for terror...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0040par0383	Dear Stone, please...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0031par0384	Nobody's sorry. Don't let him speak for us. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) $4 million...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0041par0386	Now sit down, sit down, your time is up. Enough! Enough! Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0042par0388	Dear Stone...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0043par0389	We want to serve Bingley.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0044par0390	You're forced to leave, you're forced to sit down.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0045par0391	We want to be cruel. We want to be cruel. We want to be good.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0046par0393	The National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 23,05.2012 (today), I would like to submit the group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. Yours truly. On 23 May 2012 (now) it has been suggested that the public contract talks and the results of the mass contract negotiations and the results of the transition from the public employees' rights process to the collective contract process to the implementation of the public contract process should be held in today's General Assembly on Wednesday 23,05.2012 in order to discuss the dimensions of the economic crisis warnings raised as a reason for an offer to avoid expectations for public employees. Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP who has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal for the nationalist Movement Party.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0047par0407	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. My dear friends, the public workers are standing today. While you were on your way to the Assembly, you witnessed part of their actions, and as I arrived, our friends were walking this way along the road to Eskişehir. I don't know right now, if the police stopped it, if they fought, if they ate gas, we haven't heard it in a busy working pace, so we'll probably see it on the news soon. Dear friends, yesterday's offer of another law, the day before... everyone's up again. You've made such a freak that we're going to regulate the rights of all public employees by the decree you brought in. You've confused them with each other. We've told you many times to bring this, and we'll do a radical reform here in the form of law. I'm afraid today has become inextricable, and you're going to have to fix all of this along with the pay raises, and there's no other way. In the decree of a freak named 666, everything was filled in, and none of you know it, they brought in ministers, and it was published in the Official Gazette. Today the officers are in righteous resistance, but on the one hand, Mr. Prime Minister is threatening us financially: tomorrow we will return to Zinhar Greece. Sit where you sit. The ministers from the other side threaten that we have no money, that it is open in the budget. And what's that like? Didn't you promise the officers? We'll give you a strike-out, collective contract union rights during the constitutional debates. Did you say? You did. When did he arrive, how many months later? You brought it by the end of the year, it came in January. We waited 40 days for a subcommittee meeting, and I was a subcommittee. So, now, we're here... what's the date? It's the end of May. Now, these men... what are we discussing? We're discussing the raise they're going to receive in 2012. What kind of freak is that? And we're still putting up a hot stick by being made of political material. Now, dear friends, without such a strike, there is no right to a collective contract. The officers saw it as a trick. Now, on top of that, they have rights. When the law came out upstairs, we said: "These are missing." ▪ He favours a union, favours a confederation, goes to yellow unionism. The board of judges must be neutral. E is now a government official. What kind of decision will the arbitration board make? Easy? Here, I'll read you their names if you'd like. You know what titles our friends are in. Well, now that the Prime Minister has put it in, he says: "Sir, there is no more zinhar, we will return to Greece." So you're just going back to Greece on your salary to the officer? What is it? He said the debt would go up. Well, isn't our debt going up? Don't you guys realize what you've been up to for ten years? I mean, don't the debts go up, do they? Now, when they came here to the officer, they put up a lot of budgets. These are the funniest things. I'll be here, but before I get to the financial dimension, there's a serious problem. At the moment, two other confederates are in action, and our friends from Officer-Sen are waiting for an offer. On the one hand, unfortunately, the pressures will be determined in the next period -- if you're following -- in June, the numbers for re-authorization will be determined. Now, I'm hearing from our friend, the head of a union official branch, who's sitting there giving a self-proclaimed achievement award to 40 or so teachers. There are four or five Turkish Education-Sen members among 40 or so people, and one Education-Business member. The rest of them, they're members of the union. They ask the manager: "Why did you do this? I do not know." You know, first the manager offers the awards for success, then comes to my ski, through national training directors, and yet such a quick unionization continues on one side, but they don't participate in these actions, unfortunately. There are some serious problems here. Now, the ball has been thrown into the referee's board, but on one hand, sir, we treat it all equally, says the Minister. We're looking from the other side, and now, sir, that would be an act against the arbitration board. Officer-Sen is making a statement. Yeah, well, we read to you here, and Mr. Arinc didn't deny it. You know what he said at the meeting of the officer-sen, and I have spoken to you before. What he was saying was, of course, we'll sit down with Officer-Sen. In your time you said no, no. Now you're here, you're trying to meet us at the table. There's an understanding that says, "No, no, no, no. After that, of course, don't confuse people. When you see where you're walking around saying "no," brother, you don't have the right to talk about it, you don't have the right to talk about it, you don't have the right to mess with people's heads. Officer-Sen knows what to do, he's discussed it with the government, he's going to make a legal change, he's going to sign a collective contract. There are no setbacks in these rights, he says. Mr. Bulent Arinc said so. Now, Officer-You sat down. What did he offer you? Last time it was 7.5+6 or so. How many did you give him? Three and a half plus four at the most recent point. Well, where is it? I thought you said you had a deal. When you sat down, you were going to take it with you, the lamb officer. You're doing this on one hand, and on the other, he has no right to object. We said, "Come, if the other two confederates do it together at least, let him have the right to object and sign the collective contract." So, what did you give him now? So you're giving the officer anything besides that? What's your rate? He's not waiting for a proportional increase. Do you have any additional payments, a set of base pensions, family benefits, anything like that? Neither were they. Nothing the officer asked for was met. It's about minimum wage, and most importantly, you said you were going to put 4/B and 4/C, all of it in the polls. Anything on these? No. Anything on the fees? No. Is there anything to cover your pay injustice? No. What? By God, we've got trouble in the OVP, we've got fiscal discipline. Didn't you yourself withdraw the law on the financial rule before the election, just in case? When it comes to your work, the budget, the financial rule, when it doesn't work out for you, we can't give it to you, there'll be a crisis. Now, if this officer is going to have a crisis with the money given to him, then it's going to be a crisis anyway. We know what kind of money you're handing out here, in the General Assembly, and in the Budget Commission, what funds we're giving. Sir, a one-point increase is causing a 1 billion increase. And then we look at it and you're talking about 25 billion in total. What if they don't know math... what happens if one point is causing an increase of one dollar if you give it 3.5 percent and it turns out to be normal? Doesn't that make 4 billion at most? And to scare the eye like that, they're billing 20 or so billion dollars to say, well, there's no account, there's no book. Dear friends, look, it's not very right. The 3.5 plus 4 is not 7.5, the 5 dots are not even 6. Divide it by 12 months per year, and if you want me to give you their accounts, what's the inflation rate in the first three months? The inflation rate of the Central Bank, sir, is calculated to be 6.5. The Minister says, is there going to be a 7-8 inflation minimum? There will be, if the current account pulls back, pull forward. Is the first three months over 3 percent? Yeah. You can't even afford the first six months, so how are you going to do the officer's justice without crushing this inflation? I'm not talking about the welfare share yet. You know, where'd the officer get a cut of welfare before he grew up? No. So, what's the growth rate now? You said four, let's get three. Shouldn't you at least give me 10 percent when you put 3 percent on this inflation? So in order for this to not be crushed, you have to give a minimum 10 percent increase in order to avoid inflation. What's the total? 5%. So, how much did you, you know, raise at the same time that Mr. Secretary called it, that you gave them all at Christmas? How much did we do when we were being polite about the raise we had when we called it "revealing value increase"? 10.26 percent, I'll tell you. So what's the annual raise? What's the rate of revaluement when you calculate the cost? 10.26 percent. When? From New Year's Eve. Well, at least give it to him, take his average, put it in the first six months, after. I don't have that either. Dear friends, this can't happen. I told you then. Why? Because you get the price of the TFE there, the price of the TFE, when it suits you. As for the officer, TÜFE, by revising him. So what we're expecting is, then we'll make a difference... ya, it doesn't matter, June, it's already been the first six months. So, look, like the Prime Minister said, these things don't happen with threats like the ministers do. Give the officer his due, give him his sweat. Otherwise, the crisis is already coming, but it's not from the raise you're giving, it's from the bad administration, it's from the jobless administration of the AKP.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0048par0420	Thank you. Ünal Kacır, İstanbul MP...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0049par0422	Tarayya Sadi Scholar.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0048par0423	Here you go, wise guy.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0050par0425	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I would like to submit my views on this motion to open this general discussion by the National Party of Action. Of course, when you listen to the representative of the National Movement Party here on the stand, you can't really, sometimes not be surprised. Of course, when we look at the ten years of our AK PARTI administration and the arrangements it has made for our officers, our employees in general, it's really hard to say that the criticisms that have been done here have been very merciful. In our country, as you know, the right of public officials to be organized for the first time in the 1961 Constitution. In the first form of the 1961 Constitution, the workers were given the right to form a union, not only to workers, but also to public officials. Based on this Constitutional decree, the Law on State Staff Unions No. 624 was adopted in 1965, but the amendment to the Constitution of 1971 was changed to employees, the right to establish a trade union for public officials was removed, unfortunately. There have been significant developments in the trade union of public officials since 1995. With the amendment to the Constitution and Act 4688, which entered into effect in 2001, it has been replaced by the unionism of public officials. An additional degree for officers who started in office after 1991, an additional degree for disciplinary forgiveness, a removal of child constraints in the family allowance, an increase in the amount of assistance, a payment of balance compensation to staff who have not received an institutional additional payment, a transfer due to a common condition, the removal of wages among employees working with the same title, the removal of employees from bank promotions, the removal of the provision of funds to our employees, and the removal of the release of the state's accession of the state-owned staff due to a common-law conditional status, the transfer of the state staff, the transfer of the state staff, the transfer of the state's accession of the state as well as the rights, and the ban on the rights of the rights of the rights to be removed from the rights and the rights of the rights of the Union member of the state, and such as the rights of the state-of-of-of-the-of-the-of-the-of-the-the-regrantst-of-of-the-the-of-the-the-the-resun-the-of-reststststststststststst-the-of-of-the-of-of-the-the-the-of-of-of-of-the-the-the-of-the-of-of-of-the-the-the-the-of-of-the-of-of-the-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-the-of-of-of-of-the-the-the-the-of-the-the-the-of-the-the-the-of-of-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-of-of-the-the-of-the-the-of-of-the-the-of-of-the-the-of-of-the-the-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the- Now, of course, we're discussing raise rates. That's where the matter has come to be locked, and the importance of the number of increases that have been placed in the focus of the debates is that our minds are used to the concept of public language as well as the language of our citizen on the street. In addition, it is clear to us for the first time that this issue has been discussed so widely, what level of improvement has been achieved in the participation of both citizens and democratic pressure groups. In addition to the amendment to the referendum on September 12th, our officers are entitled to a collective agreement instead of a collective meeting. Today, from a collective meeting to a collective contract table, 11 service arms sat at the table with confederations and all their demands were delivered to the government at that table. As a result of this collective meeting, fifty-six of these demands were met. Now, what did the government do? It's called numbers. Here are some numbers. I'm not going to give you a lot of numbers, but I'd like to give you a number or two here: For one thing, there's talk of pay inequality. This has been one of the most important improvements made during the AK PARTY period. The coefficient difference between the highest civil servant's salary, the undersecretary's salary, and the officer's salary in the first place of 9 was 7 in 2002. This coefficient was reduced to 3.9, when we reached 2012. This is, for one thing, the most important indicator of the cost balances being maximumly preserved by the AK PARTY authorities. We're looking, there's talk of a strike. We never said "grev" so the Memura strike rights were never pronounced by us. When you look at the collective meeting, it was the government who made the final decision, and now the People's Officers Referee Board has been formed, and the confederacy with the highest members has the right to apply here. And they're going to use those rights at the end of these legal processes. We're looking at their demands. There's a statement from the Ministry of Finance, about 25 billion charges to the budget. The rate of increase the government proposed at its most recent arrival is 3.5+4 percent. Now, when we look at the motion they've made, they're trying to link all of this to the lack of financial resources in Turkey and the failure of the AK PARTI authorities in this regard, to the fiscal management, but that's a very unfair criticism. What is the concept of budget discipline, Mr. Günal?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0051par0440	I know, but you don't.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0050par0441	Both the National Movement Party and the group are well aware.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0051par0442	You don't know.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0050par0443	Now the confederations are being discussed. It's like this whole interview, at least after the referendum, has a statement that all of these talks are being held only in the Officer-Sen wing. That's an extremely wrong statement.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0052par0444	Why did you block the judicial path? Why did you block the path of judgment?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0050par0445	All confederations have been held, as well as services.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0053par0446	I thought you said you had a deal. That's what Mr. Arinc said, we've done it, we've made a deal.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0050par0447	I mean, they've had these meetings over and over again.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0053par0448	But he didn't. Where is it? No deal.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0050par0449	Mr. Günal, as a commissioner and as a subcommittee, you know very well that this is the way it is.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0053par0450	And we thought if it was Officer-You, you'd sign it right away.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0050par0451	Look, you're looking at staff expenses. Now, when we took power, the share of staff costs from the budget was 18.4 per cent; when we came to 2012 today, the share of staff costs from the budget came to 27.6 per cent. Now, 27 percent...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0053par0452	What's the number of officers?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0050par0453	If you look at it, you'll also predict the size of the budget, so you're not talking about the budget size, you're just looking at one side of it, but the improvements that have been made as far as the coming point are clear. In addition, the talks on this collective contract are carried out by sides in accordance with the law passed and passed by the Turkish Grand National Assembly, as well as by law, as you look at it as part of the legislative process. My dear friends, now, if you'll excuse me, there's a statement from the chief economist of the OECD, a statement he made yesterday. He says that with high and rising debt of the country, poor banking systems, excessive financial consolidation and low growth, the risk of a vicious cycle increases, and such a low-profile scenario can become concrete, and it can lead to very serious consequences for the global economy by moving out of the Eurozone. I'm afraid there's no clear idea of how the crisis process will continue when the world economy enters. Until just yesterday, economists who have said that things are improving, saying that they are entering a more dangerous period today, giving the impression that there will be a new development every day, which is well known by you. In fact, the IMF is a very important situation for institutions such as the World Bank to revisit their predictions very often to reveal the uncertainty and complexity of the painting. There is no way to understand how Turkey's government can be critical and critical of financial and economic policies that have been cautious and on the ground when the world is in crisis and have achieved its minimal impact on these crises. As a result of unjust and unjust criticism against a government that has been trying to make uncertainty in terms of decision makers at such chaotic times even a little bit specific, it will again lead to failure of opposition, which is driven by hopes of the EC PARTI. Economists believe that in the coming days, the world economy will enter a troubled process, under the influence of negativity in the European economy. There is a possibility that the problems in Europe will occur in Turkey, that its reflection will be seen by exports and financing. First, since it will be difficult to sell goods to narrow European markets, there may be a possibility that Turkey will suffer on the export side. Given that some of the financing of Turkish banks and private sector companies is provided from European banks, it is very likely that narrowing down could also affect Turkey. Under the circumstances, with budget discipline, maintaining budget discipline, keeping an eye on...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0054par0459	Is that why the Prime Minister says we look like Greece?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0050par0460	... there is nothing more natural than the conduct of collective contract negotiations, and both the government and our unions have their own agenda. Therefore, in any way in the House, I would like to express that we are opposed to a motion to re-investigation on this matter, my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0055par0462	Thank you. Musa Çam, MP of İzmir, has asked for a word in favour of the proposal.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0056par0464	Let's see what you got on the Referee Committee. That's when I'll have them read the transcripts, Mr. Scholar. I'll have them read the transcripts on the Referee Committee.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0057par0465	On March 1, they said we can't pay the wages if they don't pass.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0056par0466	I'm going to get those transcripts.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0058par0467	I'll take it off too.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0059par0468	Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0060par0470	Mr. President, honorable members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, and salute you once again from here, from here, to the squares and streets of our country, to the public workers and civil society organisations and trade unions who support them. Dear friends, a referendum was held on 12 September 2010 in Turkey, and one of the things that took place in this referendum was the union rights of public employees. What you said there was: "From now on, public employees will form collective contracts in Turkey." Although it was said 18 months after the referendum, the Union's Law, 4688, was delayed by the Turkish Grand National Assembly and commissions. We were able to bring Public Workers Union Act 4688 to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as a result of our talks at the Plan Budget Commission and the Labour, Health, Family Commission. Dear friends, the state of the Republic of Turkey is a country that has signed international contracts and agreements. The ILO contracts allow strikes, 98 and 151 agreements, and a collective contract union, while unfortunately, we had to pass a non-responsive law here in Parliament. Despite all our resistance, despite all our opposition, this law has been passed with only your fingers. See, a month later, on June 11th, in Switzerland, there are ILO meetings in Geneva, and there are the general council. There, in talks at the general council, Turkey will again enter and be evaluated in that category among countries which are hesitant in the field of trade union rights and freedoms. Is this the right job? It's not right. We warned at the time that we said: "Friends, public employees should have a right to a strike and collective contract union, which is how we should remove it." Unfortunately, you ignored it and removed a non-official union law from here. Now, in June 11th, in the 12th of June, the Minister of Labor and Social Security will go there, and when he makes his speech there, we will become again a country of reservations in ILO. The law passed, the collective contract talks started, and on May 14th, the government proposed. This is 3+3 for the first year, 2+3 for the second year, 3+3 for the second year, 3.5+3 for the term, and 3+3 for the final offer. Now, look, my friends, dear representatives of the Council of Ministers, every time you take this stand, you say that because Turkey is one of the world's 16 largest economies, because Europe is also the largest economy in the world, because of the increase of prosperity in Turkey during your ten years of government, because of the increase of national income, and you say that. So, if Turkey is really one of the 16 major economies of the world, one of the six major economies of Europe, why give public employees 3+3 for the first year and 2+3 for the second year? Why? So here's the fact that the economy in Turkey, as you say, is not dust pink, it's not fine, it's not good, it's already obvious in these offers you've made, but you're drawing a virtual world of Turkey, you're drawing a pink picture, and you're trying to sell it to society. That's not true, you were caught red-handed here. Second, the Minister of Labour and Social Security says: "If we pay to exceed the budget, we return to Greece." Now, look at his example! We are 16 of the world's largest economies. He says, "We are one of the six largest economies in Europe. " Is that what you call a Minister of Labor and Social Security? Would that be appropriate? Could there be such an equalization? The workers there, not the workers, are the culprits and criminals of the events in Greece. Who's to blame? It's bad management. And here is the ten-year government of the AKP government, which has already been guilty and has a criminal record, friends. Unfortunately, 2,800,000 active, 1,700,000 of our pensioners were here, in Parliament, and on the negotiating table, as long as everything was in order, Turkey would have to determine a price hike above our inflation or underinflation. Unfortunately, it ended in great disappointment, my friends. Now, what we've come to is that today, thousands of public servants are screaming in the streets and squares. They say: "This is a price of misery; it is not a fee that can sustain our human lives." You say: "If we are all in the same boat, if we all go down, we will all go down together." If we are on the same ship or on the same boat, you are in the captain's house, you are in your pleasure, but the workers of this country continue to row below. We're people on the same boat with different lanes, friends. Thus, it is not possible to accept the increase given, and the workers of Turkey today express their demands and demands on the platforms, squares, and fields. Now what? No deal, the Referee Board will decide on May 29th, and his decision will be final. There's no objection, there's no judgment, there's no other conditions for debate, there's no right to strike, and people will have to accept whatever they're given. What kind of democracy is that? You block the law, you don't give the right to strike, and then I give the public employees strike, union rights, you say. It's not right to admit it, and we strongly deny it, my friends. Look, he's recently come to the House's committee. There are now 14,000 employees in Turkish Airlines, friends, the collective contract talks continue. It was supposed to start on January 1, 2011, but in Turkey, there is only one union in this line of work, the Air-Business Union. There's only one union. It was supposed to start on January 1, 2011, but the Turkish Airlines administration objected, contested the authority, and lasted a year. On 1 January 2012, collective contract talks began in Turkish Airlines, friends. He came, there was a disagreement, and the Minister of Labour and Social Security appointed a mediator. So your Ministry is appointing negotiators, but even so, Turkish Airlines object to this mediator on May 5th, and the court throws it on September 5th, my friends. It's five months, guys. After five months, Mr. Metin Ashünk and his friends now offer a law proposal and say: "The Turkish Airlines workers must be taken into the scope of the strike ban and there should not be a strike here. "E, we, Turkey, were the 16th largest economy, the 6th largest economy of Europe! We bring democracy, we bring human rights, you say we're a democratic country. Guys, why are you trying to eliminate collective rights and strike rights of people working in Turkish Airlines with a law proposal? Currently, employees, employees, formerly 2821, 2822, collective business relations have been discussed on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, still not being brought to parliament. Do you think it's appropriate, friends, to give you a law proposal to block the rights of Turkish Airlines workers to strike? Does it look good on you? But it suits you because we're going to deal with the blows. You're saying that the children of September 12th have no chance of dealing with September 12th and the coupgers. You're carrying out a civilian coup, making it clear and clear to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that you're doing a coup to both public employees and workers. A moment ago, my dear friend Tarayya Bilç said we didn't give the right to strike here, we didn't make such a commitment. The state of the Republic of Turkey has signed ILO contracts, committed. Yeah, we'll follow that one. He said. Don't you have the right to abide by that as a republican government? Don't you guys have any idea what it's like to do that? You're supposed to do that, and unfortunately, you call it no. It's important to say that Bulent Arinc said, and you said, "You made Officer-sen in Turkey a backyard, a confederate confederation." You've done the PLO, you've done the Supreme Council of Judges Prosecutors, you've done all the public institutions and organizations in the backyard, you've done the side yard, you've done the union, you've done the union, you've done the union. You've made your first Confederation during your ten-year rule, which is in third place, so you should be applauded. But you need to know, friends, in no way do you need to know that this alliance is not going to last a lifetime. The union is not supposed to be a political party's backyard. While the union would be independent of the state and should be independent of the capital and free of political power, it was unfortunately today that Officer-You became the backyard of the AKP government, and now -- in the days ahead -- it had to say yes to this poverty fee, which will be announced on May 29th. We strongly condemn and protest and say that we stand by the righteous struggle of public employees and that we will walk with them in this struggle, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0061par0483	Thank you. Erol Dora, Mardin MP who has asked for a statement against the proposal.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0062par0485	Mr. President, I have been sworn in against the opening of a general meeting of the National Movement Party Group. I salute you all. I'd like to begin today at the collective contract table by greeting all public employees who have come down to the field because of the government's insensitive approach to labor, rights and freedom. The right to a collective contract is one of the changes the Constitutional Amendment on September 12, 2010 that the EC PARTY sees as its usual blessing. While it was late to bring public officials into the way of collective agreements and implementing laws and practices that are necessary for democracy, international contracts emphasised freedom of organisation, right to strike and form of mass action have been the feared dream of the AK PARTI ruling. You want to allow workers to accept your demands with the minimum rights of public officials and the scope of the collective contract and the content of which the government has been allowed to sign within its will and has no objection. First of all, it's important to say that after a year and a half of the EC PARTI referendum, which has proven its mastery to pass the law through the House at jet speeds and then get it approved by the House, it has not moved any of this democratic and labor into parliament, and there is an AK PRITI obstacle to social freedoms. The AK PARTI mentality, which sees workers as a cheap labor force, more than a working person who doesn't respect the rights of organization, social and autonomy of workers, as far as we're concerned, is over 10 per cent of inflation, while unemployment has reached its limit. I wish we could say that this 18-month delay was well thought up, that all the unions were planning to meet their demands, and that it was finally in order to establish a law that satisfied public officials. Although the union confederations and the level of collective agreement at the ministry level have not been reached in many issues, the government has a criminalizing approach to the right to strike, which is the main right for workers. The right to a collective contract for public officials with a constitutional amendment is a very incomplete right as it stands. Today, rights, such as public employees' freedoms of organization, collective actions, such as strikes, layoffs and job slowing, are considered a criminal element and are wanted to be punished by employers or various state bodies. In this small area, the public officials who participated in these forms of mass action have been prosecuted and some have been relieved of their duties. However, there are many cases in which public officials who face similar sentences face the end of their internal legal ways have applied to the European Court of Human Rights and have punished Turkey for the court's public servant. However, collective forms of action and the right to strike are essential to democracies, and it has a binding quality for countries who side with these agreements and contracts, which are guaranteed by the International Labour Organization and many international contracts. In this context, international agreements are based on inter-national agreements on international agreements referred to in Article 90 of the Constitution, as well as on the constitutional amendment of the right to strike, and on how much the agreements of the AK PARTI (AK PARTİ) shall be shown by the amendment and the bill that the right to a national agreement is guaranteed and that the right to a civil right to a civil law brought forward by the social law shall not be legally guaranteed. As no law has ever been passed by the EC PARTY, it is impossible to speak of any regulation in the name of democracy and freedoms in this law. It's not possible to expect more than a non-democracy culture. By doing double injustice, the political government is trying to threaten and prevent millions of public workers from using their rights to strike international law by refusing to accept it and demanding that pensioners, pensioners, and their families live in poverty with a charity increase. All workers, especially KESK, are developing the attitude that everyone is waiting for in this process, that the government is trying to eliminate what's in the public name and that it's in a position against trade union activities. Everyone has to know that the collective contract table is not a place to make fun of employees, and it's the government at first. No one makes fun of workers. There will also be a seriousness of their suggestions. The EC PARTY has continued its usual populist politics in public, and when these policies fail, police, soldiers, and judges are involved. The AKP makes arrangements without bringing major innovations to the one-fifteen-year-old party's rule by circling the edge of all demands. There were two helicopter tenders in the last period, totaling $4 million and $7 million. The 4 million public workers' demand for a 1% increase can be met with the money assigned to helicopters. Inflation rate in Turkey is more than 10 per cent, while a 3.5 per cent increase to the officer is low on the price of an officer instead of a raise in the face of inflation. After expressing these thoughts, the General Assembly salutes again, thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0063par0498	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Mr. Günal, you have a request.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0064par0500	Thank you, Mr. President. I made a promise to pass on an additional piece of information about what I just did. I said: "The officers are coming this way, what will happen?" But right now, our friends have informed us that the President of Public-Sen has been heavily gassed, and while I'm telling them, they've been eating the gas. That's why I'll be here passing on the additional information. We wish them well. I hope it helps something, but at least they'll get a raise in wages, and they'll get something in return for the gas, or they'll be out of gas. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0065par0503	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0066par0504	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit01spe0065par0505	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0065par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 110th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The resolution of the National Party for Action Group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is enough of a decision, the proposal is not accepted. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. 1st ranked Justice and Development Party Chairs İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. We will begin the talks where we left to talk about the changes in the Institution of Turkey's Grand National Assembly; and Tunceli MP Kamer Yün. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which ranked third in line with the International Financial Fund's Central Convention, on the Approval of Changes Offered in Relations to the Executive Directors' Committee Reform. (x) 177 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 177 rows. Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu, İzmir MP who has asked for the National Movement Party Group to speak on the whole bill.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0067par0023	Mr. President, I stand before you to present the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on the entire legislature of Law Bill 177 rows under discussion. First of all, I salute our General Assembly. Members of parliament, immediately following World War II, many developing countries sought funding to ensure economic development, and an agreement was reached by implementing what we call the Bretton Woods International Money System in 1945. With this agreement on December 27, 1945, many countries had to accept the rules imposed by the International Money Fund and the World Bank. Immediately after 1945, Turkey signed this agreement on March 11, 1947, starting its relations with the IMF and the World Bank on that date. After that, Turkey signed 19 stand-by agreements after the first stand-by signing in 1961, 1947, and the AKP signed the last one in 2005. Dear lawmakers, this agreement was also concluded in 2009, and from that day until today, Turkey is not negotiating a stand-by agreement with the IMF, but a number of observations continue international monitoring systems, which we call iMF. Members of parliament, the failure to implement the fiscal rule announced in a large and ambitious statement, the failure of the IRS to autonomize, the transfer of political funds to local governments has been constantly criticised by the IMF for about ten years. The latest report published by the IMF (IMF) in January is also found on its site -- this report can be found on the treasure's website -- such criticism is brought. Officials who are unable to take measures that will make our country's economy more transparent, naturally healthy and sustainable, claim that our economy is now very good, but many environments, including international economic institutions, explain that it is not at all like this. At the moment, debates are being made as to whether Turkey's economy is no longer growing, but falling into a descent, and how this landing is going to be a severe decline, or a softer decline. But given the constant decline of domestic demand, the decline of exports to the European Union and the slowing down of the world economy, we can predict that this landing will be quite severe. Dear friends, in the early 2012 - yearly economic programme, many figures have been consistently revised during this period when we finished the 5th month today. This year's growth rate for Turkey is 3.3 per cent. However, figures that we have never been able to reach the Central Time Program and that we have constantly revised downwards show that 2012 will not be good for Turkey as well. For Turkey, many records have been broken in the past decade. The highest foreign trade deficits in the history of the Republic, the current, the import records have been broken again during this period. On the other hand, unsustainable growth, the natural result of its decline in employment, the rise in unemployment, and the fact that Turkey's domestic savings rates have been significantly lower lately is the most important topic today. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the current deficit from these titles, it also causes the current alarm bells to ring, which are over 10 per cent of our national income and are now way past critical. Turkey is importing $140 in order to export $100, and this 40 dollar should be very controversial about where it's funded and how it's funded. While Cari claims there are no problems as long as it can be kept open and financed, economic management today is involved, but the financing and quality of financing of the deficit continue. Dear friends, the unfashionable deficit of $2.6 billion in capital pens is closed by the Central Bank's balance sheet, which the Central Bank explains every week. And it's about $3.8 billion when it's finally explained, and it shows that the hot money keeps coming in, and it can't be maintained in a healthy form of open financing. In the past, we had at least some information at the point where the hot money was invested in stocks, bonds, or deposits, but as of today, we don't know where the money is coming from and how it's injected into the economy, unfortunately we don't know about it either. In fact, all of these negative developments had us ring the alarm bells since last summer, July 2011, so now we're eating from the pocket, and our foreign currency reserves are running low all the time, and we're depending on the introduction of a money that I just stated was a mistake, a no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. On the other hand, our energy bill is rising, as we estimate the current deficit, and the Mid-Time Program was talking about an energy bill, around $97, the price of oil per barrel, but only when 2012's annual programme was announced immediately, so it was revised as 100 dollars less than a few months later, the price of oil. The price of oil, which is fluctuating these days -- happily, it's fluctuating downwards -- is also the result of redoing our current open projections. Dear friends, we've made the Central Bank independent during the 57th Government, but it seems today that the Prime Minister and the economy management in the first place seems to be very complaining about this independence of the Central Bank and even some of the Central Bank's statements. The last time Mr. Prime Minister said and complained that banks didn't open loans at the TOBB General Assembly. Interestingly, the reported bank loan rates are due to an application that the Central Bank limited to 25 per cent last year, reduced to 15 per cent this year, even to 14 per cent. So while we continue to beat up our institutions, we chase after them, saying, "Run away from the other side." Dear friends, we continue to fight with credit rating agencies as well. Turkey has also recently had a fashion for fighting with the entire international institutional structure. Now, it's said that these credit rating agencies are making some miscalculations and we're going to make our own local organization. When we look at it in some way, it seems like a very normal and joyous development, but we're going to have to learn that the economy can't be managed in the political field by saying that it can't be managed, unfortunately, and then we're going to have to beat our heads off. We have an economic management that has the highest current deficit, and on the other hand, we have a savings rate that falls from 20 per cent of national income to 12 per cent in 1999. So, what is the economic management doing that needs to be taken care of? Unfortunately, no serious measures or policies have been developed. The World Bank has prepared a report. At times, the economic management has shown serious respect for international reports by international organisations, but unfortunately economic management has skipped this report on the sustainability of high growth and serious criticism for savings. In the 1990s, Turkey was saving 23.5 per cent, and in the period 2000-2008, it dropped to 17 per cent and eventually declined to 12.7 per cent in the past year. Now, the main issue that needs to be developed is that at a time when the external demand I've just said has gone down and the world economy is slowing down, and so you need to expand your domestic demand and savings. When you look at it in terms of macroeconomics, it's a savings result, valuable lawmakers. So what you need to do now is how to increase your savings. If you persist at the rate of high growth, then you may face serious policy inadequacies, perhaps like Greece, that will lead to the future, God forbid, bankruptcy of the country's economy. The World Economic Forum is making a Global Competition Index. So in an economy that can't save that much, our entrepreneurs are also in trouble. When we look at this index, Turkey is the 13th in 142 countries in terms of the intensity of competition in the domestic market, 33 in terms of the efficiency of competitive law, 41 in terms of market control of companies, so you can't save, and your entrepreneurs, your firms have fallen into a difficult situation, and naturally your competitiveness index has declined. When you look back at the year 2011, we see that Turkey has won the lottery, my dear friends. Our fee is crushed by inflation, efficiency, and in a serious sense, in an unsustainable structure, Turkey is in need of foreign financing in 2012 around $130 billion. Now, where are we going to find this financing, how are we going to find it? And at the point where the debates continue and all the international institutions agree that it's going to be difficult to find resources in 2012, we're going to go back on the other side, we're predicting a high growth rate in 2012, and then we're revisiting it, but even the number that we're revisiting is far beyond the projections of international institutions. On the other hand, we're narrowing down our loans, we're brushing banks, and as a result, we're shooting ourselves in the foot. The European banks will no longer have to lend us money at this time because they are at a point where they have to overcome their own problems, and because of the debt crisis, they have to cut back their loans. The current growth model run by economic officials, which is persistently, based on hot money, is now bankrupted in its unsustainable economic model. Dear friends, this model, which has increased the country's continuous current deficit and external debt, has also become stable and sustainable. Then what should we do? We need to come up with a good growth strategy. It's not the slowdown of production, it's the fact that production is dependent on imports, but rather, it's supposed to increase production by following an export-oriented growth strategy, but we're looking at it from the other side, and there's a minister in our country who's unfortunately responsible for exports, but for imports, for some reason, nobody opens their mouth and doesn't say a word. And the top of exporters is that if importers sit down, if some importers do a job as head of the business room at the top of these companies, we won't be able to get a right solution to this problem anyway, unfortunately. On the other hand, you have to look at the unemployment figures. Look, when we arrived in 2012, we now faced double-digit unemployment figures, and that was already among the symptoms of the period after last year's July 2011. During the past summer, the reserves that we ate from that pocket, the extra ones that we used, they've been causing us a lot of trouble today. Of course, the most important reason why unemployment has increased so much is that I just said that the rate of growth, the way you're going down, the way you're going down, the way you're going to be stable, the way you're going down, the way we're going down, the way we're going down, the way we're going down, the way we're going down, the way we're going down, the way we're going down, the way we're going down, the way we're going down. In a growth of 8.5 percent, when you suddenly step on the brake, if you stop this vehicle so quickly, you're naturally going to create a job gap and unemployment. Dear MPs, very interestingly, there is also an IMF debt debate in Turkey. Now, the IMF debt supply, which Turkey handed over in 2002, was not $23.5 billion. That debt, I'll tell you, was $13.9 billion. Now, of course that's a very interesting point. In 2003, it went up to 16,7, 18,4 in 2004, 14.6 in 2005, 10.8 in 2006, began to fall in 2007, 7.1 in 2008, has increased to 8.6 again, and finally, in 2009, when the final 2005 stand-by agreement ended, it came to around $8 billion. So according to the credit slices you used as a result of the deal you made, your debt supply can increase or decrease. Now, when we get out of here, you're going to look at this: the total debt supply between 2002 and 2011-2012 has increased; you're going to look at it. Turkey's IMF debt has now become so small and unspoken that you have no chance to compare it to this debt anyway, internationally. You're going to look at your total debt, the public plus private sector debt. On the other hand, you've been privatizing around $50 billion in that time. So you're raising your debt, you're coming to a total amount of debt from 221 billion dollars to around 580 billion dollars in 2002, and you're raising your total debt by making $50 billion a big deal, despite privatisation. The point is to talk about it, how to reduce it, here, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, let's develop a common measure, together we'll produce our policies. Dear friends, the industry needs to create employment, it needs to grow. But when we look at it, when we look at the labor columns that are creating jobs, unfortunately, we have unqualified, underpaid, and low-increased jobs. It's like that in the industry and in the service sectors. So if you can't come up with a whole new employment strategy that doesn't change the government and the government, then you won't be able to solve unemployment problems in your country, in your country. There's a lot of structural problems with unemployment. At the very beginning, the issue of raising participation in the labour force to international standards is coming up, which we don't see in the recent work strategy work, dear friends. For about ten years, we have seen a policy in our country that has been following a pure liberal and effort to integrate into global markets. Despite the fact that these policies have been abandoned in many countries around the world, a policy is, unfortunately, being followed instead of pursuing Turkey's own internal dynamics and a policy that will boost competitiveness, rather than developing strategies based on the right priorities. This becomes an app that will leave us behind in terms of performance from our own leagues, and unfortunately, as a result, we become more dependent on the externalities of the global financial market. For him, at the point of Turkey's well-being, I would like to address the economic authorities who are not doing much at the point of Turkey's economic development: Precious friends, you need to learn to deal with complex goals and strategic editing. If you do this in the right place and at the right time, you will also have the opportunity to develop what we call our country's infinite values, the wealth of the national economy. My dear friends, with these thoughts, I wish you the best of the bill, with respect.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0068par0049	Thank you. The Republican People's Party Group has asked for a speech from Orhan Süpı MP.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0069par0052	Mr. President, he gave me the wrong number, so when can you promise to fix it?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0070par0053	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the International Council of Executive Directors' Committee's Charter and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approval of Changes Offered in Relation to Reform. On this occasion, I salute you all. Mr. President, I'm not an economics expert, so I'm sure there's a lot more people among you lawmakers to say than I do. I'd just like to point out that just yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister had developed a phrase called IMF. Today, the officers of this country are on the streets, again -- if you can look at television -- they're all sticks, they're all pepper sprayed. We didn't understand what a powerful economy this was. We're the world's 16th largest economy. You'll say that, but as for the officer, you'll agree to 3.5 percent. If we don't give it, we'll be worse than Greece. You'll say, well, that's exactly what we need to figure out here: that means that our economy is hanging by a thread, and if we give it 3.5 percent, we'll be Greece. And you have to appreciate that at least the government recognizes the oasis of the economy in the country. And from this angle, I think that's the right approach. My dear friends, I'm the Slap Congressman. So rather than the deal at the IMF, I'd like to talk about the problems of Tokat. I'm going to read you a few names: enough Iron, Return Master, Ercan Koldan... You'll say, "Who are these men?" I'll tell you one, and I'll tell you one, because I know him personally: Ercan Koldan was a child of a poor family who had been married two years ago. He was shepherding and trying to support seven or eight people in his family. He died about ten days ago from a tick bite. Your wife has an eight-month-old baby in her arms, and this family has no one else to work with. The father works as an elderly, mother working as a day - to - day worker in the fields to contribute to the family's livelihood. So what happened? Ercan Koldan is dead. My dear friends, before me, this council was motioned to investigate the Crimean Congo bleeding disease twice. Sadly, two aspects of these motions were rejected by the High Assembly. I'd like to point out that today, the death of these names is responsible for those who took a stand against this motion on that day. Now, my dear friends, what's happening in the slap? Every spring at the Tokat, when people leave their homes to go to their fields, to produce things, or on weekends, when they want to go and have a proper picnic with their children, they come home in the evening in a panic, did a tick bite us? Now, my dear friends, my ruling slap MP friends, I couldn't see them here, but I, however, would like to remind them of the issues involved. Before the election, my dear friends said: "We are going to build a tourist centre of Tokat. " Because it was the right solution in Tokat. Why was it the right solution? There was a cigarette factory in Tokat, you sold it; there was a sugar factory in Turhal, and you sold it, so these people need to make a living somewhere. Then they said, "We will bring you tourists. You get by because of tourists. Of course, there may be tourists in Tokat, but there are conditions for bringing tourists to Tokat. Now, I'm curious how you're going to bring out tourists to a Tokat, where the living are afraid to go out on the street. Look, one of the newspapers that are related to you is said to have been ordered by public officials to shut up about the tick disease. If the tick disease in Tokat is to be solved by public officials, then if this problem is to end, I will leave immediately because it is the health of the citizen. Friends, I asked Mr. Health Minister a question about this matter, and I said, "How many people have been caught in Tokat, Sivas, Çorum, and Amasya since 2002? How many people have been bitten by ticks? How many of these have been hospitalized? How many have died? Look, I'm reading to you exactly what the Ministry sent me: the Crimean Congo was diagnosed with hemorrhagic fever in 2011 and 47 in Amasya, 137 in Çorum, 80 in Sivas, 258 in Tokat, and 115 in Yozgat. From 2002 until today, Amasya lost 14 lives in the country, 48 in the Çorum, 15 in the Sivas, 57 in the Tokat, and 40 in Yozgat. My dear friends, because of my profession, I know very well that hospitals actually have serious statistics on these issues, serious data is provided, and each one of them is sent to the Ministry every month. Of course, since I couldn't answer the question I was asking, I rewrote to see if there was a mistake. I'd also like to point out that when I called the Ministry myself as an MP, the Ministry of Health said he couldn't give me any information about this. We've only been able to get this information by using our right to get information. That's the way the Ministry treats a congressman. So, guys, we're saying, how many people have been bitten by ticks? No information. How many people have applied to the hospital? No information. The ministry just counted the dead, counting them right, we don't know if they're wrong, either, because if you can get to this area, if you can get to it, you'll see that those numbers are really different, that hospitals are full of tick bites. I was hoping you'd come by and see me one day. Now, my dear friends, what is Crimean Congo's hemorrhagic disease and what has been done to them. So far, no visible measures have been taken at the Tokat. Of course, I don't know about Amasya, Chorum, Sivas, but is there anything different? I don't think it's much, I honestly don't think it is. Guys, we're talking about a disease where people are dying, and it's really not appropriate for the prestige of this country, its current position. Again, I'd like to remind you that every time you come in here, the republic's governments that you're talking about, they've beaten malaria in this country, they've beaten trachoma, they've beaten leprosy, but you've been watching this disease go on, let alone beat the leper for ten years, a little bit more, every last year, with a little more number of deaths. I'm really curious when you're going to take precautions and when you're going to stop the process. And I told you in my speech before that, the citizen is so desperate that the mayors take pheasant and release it to nature, and they're looking for a solution here. The citizen takes a piece of cake from the right, from the left, and leaves it in his garden, hoping for help with the toys. Now, can you tell me that we've made revolutions in health? This country doesn't have health problems, we've solved them all, we're going after them all. If you're going anywhere else, tell us why you're not going to Tokat. The slap is a county that voted 56 per cent in the last local election. What do you want from these people? What's the motive? My dear friends, I hope, Mr. Health Minister, as he has done in the past, put your pants in your shoes. Put on white clothes. It is not in the way of avoiding this subject by giving advice in the form of a white dress. The Minister is also angry with the criticism, and I said so, and they made fun of me. My dear friends, then, Mr. Secretary, make a recipe for the mothers. That's not what the Minister of Health is supposed to do. The Minister of Health has to send the grown-up people of this country to these regions and protect them from this disease by using the Ministry's powers and resources to do whatever it has to do. Otherwise, as I said, put on a white dress. It's not the Minister of Health's job, it's not his duty. That's why we're criticizing him, or we don't have the right or the right to make fun of anyone, and we know that. My dear friends, a friend of mine, the mayor, was just here. I wish you'd leave one day, but we have a lovely district called Reshadiye, where there are very few crater lakes in Turkey. Right on top of the mountain, you're going out, there's a lake, there's an extraordinary, natural, beautiful view. He's leaving, he's coming in, he's going to make two miles of asphalt up here, you don't have ears. Why not? You didn't vote for the AK PARTY. There is also a vote for the EC PARTY. So, in the end, the way this pond is built, the way this village is built... is this the way the mayor will take on his back when he loses the election? He won't. Well, why don't you go ahead, take a look at their path, take a look at them? At least those who go to Tokat should not go into the mud on their way, and do not go out on the road by means of their means. As I said, you've already sold what's wrong with Tokat, so at least give these people a few miles. Dear friends, once again, a few days ago, we celebrated our May 19th Youth and Sports Day. My mayor has been invited to the police twice. The reason is: You will not put a wreath on the Ataturk memorial. A friend of mine who was in the police force came to our party and bothered -- he tried to tell us that what we did was wrong. Sir, there are regulations about this, we shouldn't have put a wreath on the Ataturk monument. Congressmans, I've made it very clear to them that we are the party that founded this country, this republic. We don't put bullets in this government's soldier, we don't put mines in his path, we don't call the people who killed the children of this country, but on May 19th, whatever the cost, we go and put our wreath, and as a result, we put it in the Tokat. If anyone thinks they can intimidate us with these methods, they're miscalculations. It would be in their best interest to give up this account quickly, not ours, because we have nothing more to lose. My dear friends, I hope our Home Secretary will take care of this. The mayor of the slap was given to your party by about 50 per cent of the vote. There's a deputy mayor in this town, and he's not a Republican People's Party from your party. He's been shouting for two months, he says: "This Mayor is corrupting, there's something else going on in this municipality. There's an investigation going on. There's an inspector who's been sent to mermir City. But once he's been there, you put 52 inspectors -- he's my brother, and we'll always stand behind Mr. St. Bigoglu, and I'm telling you that there's no one who's ever been to Tokat City. Looks like the Republic's prosecutors are out of business now. When things like this were written before, the Republican prosecutors would investigate, at least as a courtesy. Now, our prosecutors aren't very nice either. Again, my dear friends, look, I told you, The Slap is a province that votes for you a lot. You've got a Turhal Mayor, he's got an app planned. Planning is actually a logical thing, I'll admit, let's make water counters automatic, let's make them carded, let's get a citizen's card, and let him use as much water as he gets a card. Okay, good, so far so good. I'll tell you what from now on, the counters are being changed. One of the counter is 160 lira if you go and try to buy it in Ankara, but Mr. Mayor's been trying to sell these hours to the Turhallis for three months, and the one who doesn't buy it has a hard-on, no fear of anyone. We said, "We bring it up, we talk about it." I believe there are people in the AK PARTY who have a conscience, they bow to it. But, my dear friends, Mr. President is not afraid of us, nor of the representatives of his own power. He says, "We will sell it." He says, "If it comes to your account, I'll cut off your water," he says to the citizen, "I'll cut off your water." Let me make it clear that the President can't cut off that citizen's water. We're for friendship, we're for peace, we're for honesty, but we know how to fight if we have to. That's how I want it to be known. Yes, my dear friends, I thank the President's tolerance for this agreement, for giving us a chance to talk about the problems of our province, and for this occasion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0071par0078	Thank you. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP asking for the Peace and Democracy Party Group.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0072par0080	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the contract for the International Fund for Money 177 rows. I salute you all. But I do need to remind you of a fact. What did the IMF do when Turkey went into economic crisis in 1994? What was done while Turkey's money was being rehabilitated, as inflation suddenly rose? Then, after bank siphoning and bank sinkings in the 2000-2001 bank crises, what bitter prescriptions did the IMF put ahead of Turkey? You have to see them well. How much interest did Turkey pay, how much money did it pay? And I'd like to point out a fact that's often found in these applications. That's the fact: don't raise the price, let it count. Don't give the officer a raise, let him keep it in place. At the time, it became standard demands of the IMF. Today we're looking at the squares in Turkey, the morning I looked at the Securitypark, the public workers were in the square for the raises, for the right demands. Then in all the cities of Turkey, there were layoffs to address these rights demands. What happened? Officers are coming out for rights demands, government officials are gassing them right now. We're in a really weird situation here. In the history of the IMF, there is a procedure in the history of public laborers, in which he has been given a time of crisis, that he has all of his suffocation, austerity, austerity policies, all of which are for workers; they are for workers; they are for workers; they are for union rights; they are for the organisation of public workers; they have this procedure. Now, we're doing our budgets with the Midterm Program, and the three-year budget is now clear. Although this three-year budget is clear, tax pardons, tax peace, privatisation, a ton of economic resources are being obtained, money is coming into the budget, as pens that are not included in the budget's revenues. Besides taxes, other than indirect taxes, such resources are created outside the income tax, and the budget can't get rid of the current deficit, about 60 to 70 billion. The current current current current rate is around 70 billion. Now, in a time when the global crisis has taken place, when the United States is most affected in Europe, we will give one of the executive directorates here to Turkey. The G-20 member country is the country, and Turkey will then join the leaders of the IMF, and Turkey will then become a partner in the decisions made by the IMF, the workers, the employees, all of them will be strangled. Now as you sign such a contract, you can look at what Turkey brings to it, and what it brings to it from two glasses: One, from an imperial standpoint, you look at it from a capital perspective. From here, with loans to give to less developing, developing countries that make them dependent on themselves, you can flood those loans into interest debt and spill the national wealth of those countries to rich countries. What countries? Here's to America, Europe, especially the G-8 countries. And who has started the crisis since 2008? Europe, especially America. What countries are in crisis right now? Here's Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Ireland. What's going on in these countries is the truth. Now, here we are, we're the international contract, we're signing technical contracts, and these technical contracts are passed through the Foreign Affairs Commission, but they've passed through the Commission, so let's sign this, and we'll run the world, and we'll take two of the IMF executive directors from developed European countries. By the time European economies were shaken by this crisis, their growth stopped, even declined, their production, their employment settled. E, Turkey will also be in the category of 8.6 per cent after China, among the most growing countries in the world, seeking one of these executive directors -- the measures the IMF is implementing yesterday -- to the workers in our country, today as executive director of the IMF. Our country will share in this process. Let me explain the three heavy consequences of this global crisis. We need to learn from this. One: Europe's global crisis revisits racism, racism develops. We know that racist parties developed very quickly and formed a group in the European Parliament. This side is very important. Second: anti-Islamicism is rapidly developing in these countries; it's much more important. Third: In third world countries, total exploitation in agreements and bilateral agreements with countries fighting hunger and poverty is the basis of this banking, financial mentality. Now, to be the executive director of this IMF, this contract is technical. Do we say yes to that? If we say yes, we'll have a conscience because we're getting reports that public workers have been taken into custody in Güvenpark, İstanbul, İzmir, Adana, Mersin, Diyarbakır, and many cities that they've been delivered with gas bombs, that democratic rights and demands have been strangled, that public workers have been taken into custody. Look into the source of these reports. In a period when the IMF connects to the Central Time Program, where budget figures in Turkey are connected to automatics every three years, where all ministry budgets are now unchangeable, it forces this: you don't give too much money to officers, you don't give too much increase to officers, and if you give more, it's against the Moderate Program. Who says that? The aims of the International Fund of Money are the Central Future Program, which is based on its directives. It's the government's savings of the Midterm Program. Now, in the face of this savings, he has the right to ask: If the economy of Turkey is growing by 8.6%, why don't you give his officer this money, raise his salary? They haven't received a raise since January. The Public Workers' Union is in the square today. Why is he in the squares, why is he in the squares? Why are the state's security forces standing in front of these officers with gas bombs against their rights demands? We still owe the IMF $2.3 billion. So we're still going to apply to the IMF as a member of the Executive Directors as a country where we can't even close our debts. It is explained here that the ranking of members with the highest quota in the IMF was 36 per cent, sir. Turkey's ranking went up to 20, then Turkey went up to 20, and the G-20 summit's member was Mashallah. Let's take two executive directors -- the European economy is down -- and give one to Turkey. So, what's going to happen? The answer is this: Turkey's quota of 1,455.8 million SDRs will rise to 4,658.6 million SDRs. Now, if you tell this to the officer, if you tell the worker, if you tell the employee... what will that bring to the country? Who, what's he gonna bring? The profits will go into the account of those who will be profited through this IMF, when the finances in Turkey and the financial sector in Europe, in the United States, have merged and the international capital is centralised, but will go out of the labourer's pocket. That's what's been done so far. It's like that in energy, it's like that in oil, it's like that in fuel, it's like that in the food industry. You raise the raises over and over again. Inflation rates are out there, over 10 percent, double digits, but a 3.5 percent increase when it comes to the officer... can a man observe such an enemy of his employees, his employees, his officers, economic politics? Is that really the right policy? This needs to be questioned very well. In fact, why say yes to the IMF? Why, brother, the executive director of the IMF policies of the IMF? World capital makes it mandatory... What the world capital requires is that when you're a director, the world capital puts its hands on the money of the developing Middle East countries, the Balkans, the Caucasus, the African countries, the countries of North Africa, the Arab spring. This is directly affecting democracy, my friends. In this process that directly affects democracy, rights and freedoms, economics or the equation of freedom? Rights and freedoms begin to be restricted here, of course. Here's the most obvious example of this, even in Ankara, public workers' unions can't go to the square for a claim. So, in the September 12th referendum, didn't you give speeches in the squares that you would recognize collective contract, strike and union rights to the officer, the worker, or did you not get the votes? You got it. Well, why don't you do it after you get it? Election's over, business is over. Well, now when the officers show up with their money, their claim to rights, you send in TOMA, gas bombs, gas flares, police officers. I have to say, this approach is truly terrifying. This country has no economic policy. The Parliament does not determine this country's economic policy; the capital companies determine it, and the government gives it to the government. The government has six or seven ministers in charge of the economy. There's the Minister of Development, there's the Minister of Economy, there's the Minister of Finance, they're all in charge of finance, the economy, you can't understand, which one's in charge? In fact, which of these ministers is responsible for Turkey's economy, finances? I mean, let's get a contract going in this mess, guys... either these contracts or the technical stuff doesn't matter, I swear we don't vote for the IMF, guys. We can't tell the IMF that their policies, which bring fuses from the noses of workers, which cause persecution, which freeze their wages, which drive inflation, which drive risers, from here, from the Parliament. We don't say, "Yes." Our program, our views, our view of the world: we, the Labor, Freedom and Democracy Bloc, are running for office. We entered to defend the labor; we did not come to this assembly to defend the IMF, to support it, to bring out its contracts, its laws. So we don't have a single vote for the IMF here. The only vote given to the IMF is that in this Parliament, a gas flare, a gas bomb explodes into the head of the worker officer in Redbear Square, my friends. Every vote you give here turns to the officer as a gas flare, turns to the worker, turns to the worker, and all of our citizens who earn their living from it get their share. In that sense, a Parliament to question the IMF can make an honorable mission. We're going to question the IMF, we're going to question NATO, we're going to question the United Nations, we're going to question the Security Council. Sixty years have passed, and all of these regional and international organisations have been flooded. The world needs new economies, new economic policies, new openings, new alliances, new search for power. Turkey cannot hand its fate over to the IMF (I.M.F.) as a country that is being dragged into these quests. We will never, ever surrender our destiny to the IMF from here, nor will we surrender the fate of officers and workers. Every game that turns with gas flares, we're going to see the fact that every debt we've ever paid to the IMF, every interest we've ever paid to the IMF, it's the same thing as the current deficit. Thus said the Indian proverb: "Don't walk behind me; I may not be your pioneer; I may not be your follower; walk in front of me, and we will be equal." So when we walk together with understandings of politics and economic policy, we can begin to determine the fate of this country. We think it's time for the House to make a voice in the matter of sharing this fate. Finally, in these global crisis debates, we live in a world where an understanding of poverty versus the security equation is now being analyzed by economists, and economists say that billions of growing populations under the poverty limit are starting to threaten democracy and freedom. So it's an equal, fair division, and we're going through a period of time in the economy when new policies, strategies, are about to be drawn. Since our college years, since we were in the struggle, since the day we called independence, since the day we called democracy, since the day we called law, human rights, we've seen institutions like the International Money Fund, who have been working on money, in all these cases, go out and express ideas by Turkey. We got off at the airport with their bags in their hands, met here at five-star hotels, and the next day, they made laws in this House. How quickly will we forget these days? Are we going to be a country subjugated to the IMF? By taking a directorship from the IMF, by stealing a finger of honey from this directorate, like a bribe in your mouth, in Turkey, one of the world's G-20 countries, we take Turkey into this IMF chain, we take advantage of it a little bit more, thanks to it, to the Islamic countries in the Middle East, to the Islamic countries in Africa, to the Kafkas, to the countries in the Balkans, to get their oil, to seize their energy, to seize their futures, to seize their industry, to their futures, to their industrys, to make a thousand more, to be reviewed once again, to the countries in the Middle East East, to the Islamic countries of Africa, to the Kafkas. Today, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, we protest in the name of the gas-eating workers, public workers, civil servants, in the name of these contracts brought in by the IMF, because we know who they serve, in their name, these gas bombs and shells were thrown in their name. And to the government, now go to that gas saver, brother, go to the gas saver... so this gas is not a useful event at all. Your officer, attacking the worker with gas bombs at all times, reducing democratic rights... what would happen to Turkey if the officers pulled a rope during a day of action and expressed their right demands? Officers, not a day's notice, a year's work, a year's layoff, they can't cause a loss as much as the IMF imposed on you and the interest it imposed on Turkey. Let me remind you here that our remaining $2.3 billion debt is interest. Guys, we're in a situation like this. For these reasons, we strongly reject this technical contract because of the imperial and exploitive policies of the IMF, and on behalf of the officers, we declare that we will not vote for it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0073par0107	Thank you. On behalf of the government, National Defence Minister Ismet Yilmaz has asked for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0074par0110	Mr. President, highly respected MPs, I salute you all. This agreement is an agreement to increase our share of partnership with the IMF, not to receive instructions from the IMF administration, but to have no say in the administration of the IMF. I wanted to make amends, Mr. President, for the mistakes and mistakes of the two men before us. One of them said that in 2002, our debt to the IMF was $16 billion. That's not the right number. 16 billion Special Rights (SDR) could be true, but the number we're saying is true, the debt to the IMF in 2002 is over 22 billion dollars. Another speaker said that as of today, our debt to the IMF is $2.3 billion. There's also a mistake in that number, and I want to fix it. As of May 1, our debt to the IMF is $1.72 billion; it is $1.7 billion. We will pay half of our $1.7 billion debt by 2013; we will pay half this year, and the other half in 2013, but by May 2013, we will have no debt to the IMF. I'd like to give you another piece of information to see where Turkey is coming from: as of May 1st, Greece owes $27 billion to the IMF, Portugal owes $24 billion to the IMF, Ireland's debt to the IMF. These are about -- $21 billion, Romania's $15 billion, Ukraine's $13 billion, Hungary's $13 billion to Hungary, Belarus's $3.5 billion to the IMF. As you can see, Turkey's debt to the IMF is much less than all these countries. Turkey owed over $22 billion in 2002, and today $1.7 billion came into debt. If we ask for this debt, can we pay it now? We'll pay, but we won't have to, we'll pay by May 2013. One other thing...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0075par0117	It'd be better if you paid the officer's salary.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0074par0118	The thing about this officer's salary is that we're the world's 16th largest economy, but look at the economic trends in the world, today in Germany, France, Britain and Italy -- one of the great economies of the world -- Italy doesn't pay its employee, its officer, its employee, its employee, its social rights, but it's going backwards. What are we doing? We say to our employee, to our employee, to our officer, that we will not oppress you in the face of inflation. Since 2002, we stand by this promise, and we stand by it again, that we are with our employee, our employee, our pensioner, our pensioner. We didn't crush inflation like we did in the past, and after that, I say we won't crush inflation, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0076par0120	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, if you'd like to speak for yourself, Levent Tüzel, İstanbul MP, please.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0077par0122	Thank you. Mr. President, we have a bill coming up in the IMF's Central Convention on International Money Fund called Executive Directors' Committee Reform. So the IMF wants democracy in its own internal functioning, but we need to see that this democracy has nothing to do with democracy for the people of our country. In the IMF, we have been remembering the minimum wage in the case of poverty, which has brought much pain and sadness to our country over the years, which brings poverty, brings unemployment, and costs poverty. There once was an IMF president named Anne Krueger. When this woman comes to our country, one of the first words that the President says is never erased from our memory. The minimum wage is too high. He said this minimum wage, and that minimum wage is still -- here it is today, 751 lira -- a price of misery for millions of workers, laborers, a price for poverty, a price that is far below the age of hunger. The AKP government boasts that it no longer adheres to agreements with the IMF, but on the other hand, it wants our parliament to approve this international agreement, saying it will now have its share in the chair at the Executive Directors' Board. Therefore, the workers of our country, for their workers, are of no use to us from any agreement with the IMF to be renewed. The painful experiences we've had over the years have shown this. We should not be able to consent in any way to our country's plunder, runt, pour, borrow, burdens of new interest and debt on our country's people. Now, look, today is May 23rd, on the streets of Turkey, millions of public workers have gone up against the increase of poverty imposed on them, using the right to strike against such an immoral bargain. We're talking about 4.5 million public workers. With his employees and pensioners, their fate was in the hands of the government today. Supposedly, the government has a lot of international powers, but, of course, in its background, including the IMF. Once again, here we see which class of government is the government. The government, which has issued 11,382 incentives from July 2009 to today, is considering an investment of exactly 157 billion dollars as an investment share, giving capital groups, large companies a share like this, and now, when public workers object to it, the Minister says: "The budget you want will bring an additional 25 billion dollars to our budget." What happened? The world's 16th largest economy? What happened in this economy, in the growing economy, to the public worker, to the welfare share? Here's the collective contract, the collective contract, the public worker who wants to do this in the process of public talks, asking for a humane fee, not a fake union law, but a striker, a collective contracting union law, asking for a secure job, asking for a future job, and now, once again, the streets show state violence, state terrorism, antidemocratic practices, and the government's ceberut face. Thus, these policies remained unresolved. In vain, our public workers, when they ask for a raise, when they ask for a human fee, our lowest public wage today gets 1,800 lira. When they find out their lie -- which is 1,400 lira -- now, when this lie is discovered, we can't be Greece. This is what can't be said and threaten our country's workers with the consequences of the capitalist system in Greece. So our government no longer has to play with the fate of these 4.5 million public workers, and the public worker has to accept the right to strike, the right to strike, of course, the right to strike, the right to a strike union. During the referendum, we, our public workers, our public workers, have the right to a collective contract. We have been told that by not raising it for six months, we will adopt a union law. Public workers, especially in today's fields, want to see their pension rights reflected in additional payments and their wages removed from today's ridiculously high wages, to end the pressure on their trade unions, especially women's public workers, to have such an arrangement in this way. Dear lawmakers, yes, the government threatens public workers to look like Greece when they're stuck in this area, the workers in this area are threatened to look like Greece, but public workers who use the strike gun, use the right to organize and go out into the fields today say to the government: we don't want to suffer the crisis of this capitalist system. If you, the AKP government, can't rule this country, if you can't expect workers, workers, unemployed people, all people, oppressed people to live in a human future, go away, go away. Yes, millions of public workers, education workers, health workers, office workers, cultural art workers, they were all in the fields today, and their confederations, even though some of them have fallen into the back yard of the government, by combining together, listening to the sound of the ground today, listening to the sound of its base, as it should be, but using the right to give up the right to strike at the head of the most fundamental rights and freedoms. Now, it is, of course, the government's duty now, not to squander the resources of this country's savings, not to encourage some capital groups, but to really recognize this right to the public workers who make life in this country, produce, serve the people, a significant share of citizens, a part of it, the future, that will live in a human way. Otherwise, as with the minimum wage increase, it's not acceptable to re-enact a bagel raise once more to millions of public workers. Turkey must leave the International Fund of Money. Turkey should now abandon economic policy, dependent policy, which is filled with debt and current explanations, instead of preparing laws in this way, which will be better represented at the International Fund of Money, in some financial centers, at the World Economic Forum, look, invest in the World Economic Forum. See, this country is a profitable market for you. Well, can the AKP government do that? He can't do that. In the past seven months, we've seen in Parliament studies that the real character of all the laws that have come out is to encourage them with these domestic, foreign, international, inside representatives, to provide them with privileges, to give them superior service awards; to watch one plunder, land and precious fields, to see the mines fall; to get the laws out, to make VAT exceptions, to recognize tax exemptions, to encourage them with a new set of packages. This government has once again been exposed in today's talks, where it will not serve the public, with 4.5 million public workers, pensioners, the public workers who produce and serve us. Public workers have organizations, confederates, but they're not dealt with, and in conflict, you see, on May 29th, the Referee Board will tie that up. What's going to happen in the future? What comes next is, once again, public laborers, the borders of hunger, poverty, working and producing far below the limits of poverty. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...by providing services but by giving the most of the taxes, he is doomed to misery. For that reason alone, the conviction of the EC PARTI government and protesting in all areas as it is today would be the right thing to do. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0078par0136	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. The question-answer process will be done. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0079par0139	Mr. President, there's a personal word, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0078par0140	Sir?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0079par0141	It's personal.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0078par0142	Yes, but there was no demand, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0079par0143	No, one spoke, sir. After the group, the Minister...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0078par0144	Okay, I've moved on to the questions because there's no demand for word.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0079par0145	I sent word there. How, did I send word, or did you call me? I sent it to a friend.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0078par0146	Watch your style, Mr. Young. You didn't ask me, it says here...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0079par0147	Sir, I asked for a personal word, there's...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0078par0148	Okay, if you want promises now, you'll get them, but you don't have to act like this.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0079par0149	I got it, I want a promise. I said it, honey.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0078par0150	Okay, you have to say it nicely.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0079par0151	Okay, fine. You said no, and I said, "There's a promise."
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0078par0152	You think you're gonna scare somebody?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0079par0153	Now, Mr. President, we're already...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0078par0154	Please...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0079par0155	Yes, thank you. Mr. President, I know, now, when I say, "I want a promise." When I say, the AKP people write the words there, we want them right away. They say, "We want them," so I'll leave them at the last moment to take them down a little bit.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0078par0157	Solve your problem with the AK PARTY, young man.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0079par0158	Now, we're talking about the Bill of Law on the Approval of Changes Offered as a Relation to the Executive Directors' Committee Reform in the International Financial Fund Convention. Dear MPs, of course, Turkey has become a very troubled country along with the AKP. I was in Çorum last week, and I went to Küçükerikli village of a district called Uðurludağ. We ran into an incident where an old man was bitten by a tick, born in 1965. They took him to the doctor after he bit the tick, and the doctor gave him painkillers, although he had a very heavy fever, and he said, "Go on. They brought him back to the village again, the boy -- the man -- he's very ill, they brought him back to the doctor, they sent him back with a report. After all, when I brought him back to Çorum, and from Çorum, to Ankara, when he had not been intervened in time, our citizen was left with the mercy of Hakkk. I ask for God's mercy, but I have seen his father's pain deeply. Of course, son, don't let God show your pain to anyone. I mean, there's a lot of tick bites in this area in our day, and the AKP, despite how many people have died here from tick bites, unfortunately fresh young people are losing their lives because they didn't interfere with these people in time. That boy's father is in so much pain, I'm almost going to shoot the doctor. I said: "Now that you've lost your child, it's obvious that it won't come back." On the way to those villages, sir, that's what the boy knows, the boy who suffers. The man says: "My son would not have died if he had been interfered with in time. " The citizen is not wrong here. So everyone has to do their job. I went to the village, so now, actually, of course, there are some things I don't want to put in my mouth. For example, you're going to a village of Alevi, the village is a mess, no service has gone, but you're going to a village of Sunni citizens -- you're looking at better -- inland stones.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0080par0162	You're lying, you're lying!
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0079par0163	Yeah, well, the AKP still hasn't recovered from this little mentality. Yeah, well, be a little neutral, so treat these citizens as equals, give them equal service. For example, in my province, a citizen is now making phone calls: we don't have roads. There's the Ovacık. There's the Ovacık, there's the Nazimiye, there's the Pülümür, there's the Mazgirt. Now they say, "Sir, we're calling the Secretary General of Village Services or the Village Service, bring the fuel money, let's send the machine." This year, you know, there was a huge disaster there, big money went to a lot of places in winter. For example, Bingöl, of course my next science, went to him for a trillion liras, which was more than a disaster, which was more than a profit-cleaning job, went to our place. I mean, what do we say, what don't we bring them up, I mean, the AKP people are just a bunch of people who don't care. Of course, on the way to Çorum... you know, May 19th was the beginning of a history where the Turkish nation, the people of this country, fought for independence and were proud of its struggle, but for some reason, the Greeks don't want the celebration of May 19th, the British don't want it, the French don't want it, and the AKP's senior executives don't want it. Now, May 19th is our day to celebrate a national thrill, a victory. Why is it that every May 19th, our young people get together and perform those demonstrations, refreshing their memory of the struggle for independence that started, and giving it to the Director of Youth Sports? The Director of Youth Sports County goes, puts a wreath on the Ataturk thing, but doesn't stop in his silence. I mean, look, everybody needs to know that Ataturk has been accepted by everyone in the world as a leader. So some people didn't embrace the revolutions that this great leader brought, they fought the revolutions that brought it to them for 90 years, and Recep Tayyip Erdogan said the other day that we had made a counter revolution, that we had destroyed all the revolutions of Ataturk. But it's not easy; it's not easy with what you're saying, because those revolutions are steps taken after a war of wills, those revolutions have been adopted by our people. So it's certainly not possible for a group like you or a political power to eliminate it with this -- the counter revolution. Look, a citizen sent me an article the other day: below it says: "Four years of age are four months and four days old. The Koran course is 4+4+4. This is what you brought to Turkey. You're taking a four-year-old Koran course. Friends, we are not opposed to learning the Quran. The Qur'an is, of course, our holy book of religion. Everyone needs to learn this book, but there's an age for it to be read. Now, if you teach children at the age of five and six, if you memorize them, they will no longer learn Turkish.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0081par0169	That's not something you know.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0082par0170	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0083par0171	You wouldn't understand.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0084par0172	So with your behavior, you want to leave the Latin alphabet in Turkey and go back to the Arabic letters. This is indeed one of the greatest evils that has ever been done to Turkey. That's why you swore an oath to the Constitution... by keeping this Turkey in law. You have sworn on your honor that you will be loyal to the Republic of Turkey. Well, you know, secularism! In fact, it's the Constitutional Court that makes secularism what it is. If the Constitutional Court had shut down a party that was the focus of anti-lateral acts, then it wouldn't have happened. Now, to that Supreme Court president, when are you going to decide the election of this presidency, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court? There's an election here on August 28th. When are you gonna wake up from sleep and decide that? Recep Tayyip Erdogan, have you received instructions from Abdullah Gul yet, Mr. Supreme Court? What kind of Constitutional Court is that? So if he rejects that already filed case, I'll just take a black wreath and leave it at the Constitutional Court's door. I'll put a lock on the Constitutional Court's door. That's not gonna happen. Look, we've got hundreds and hundreds of cases here. The AKP doesn't listen to the Constitution, doesn't know the law, doesn't know the Civil Code... and unfortunately, bringing 150 MPs to the Commission with a dictatorship, a bandit, by bringing the Commission, a law proposal that has been passed without negotiation in the Commission -- we opened it, and when will you still decide the case there? Why are you holding up the case regarding the election of the President? Mr. Chairman of the Constitutional Court, why don't you take into consideration the cases brought against you in connection with the unforgivable, terrible, grave errors of the Turkish Grand National Assembly? What are you waiting for, who are you afraid of? Either resign from that mission or do as you are sworn to do when you begin that mission, make a decision.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0085par0174	Don't be ridiculous! Don't be ridiculous!
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0084par0175	So the Supreme Court, of course, has seen some high-level AKP executives from time to time -- they've eaten kebabs, but... enough, the kebabs you've eaten have to be remembered. Now come to your senses, after working in that office for a certain period of time, under the influence of the judicial profession of neutrality, justice, law-abiding, Constitutional, and decision must be made at once. What are they waiting for? The President of the Constitutional Court needs to come out here and explain, folks. Every day he gives something of his own. Therefore, if the law has come to this point in Turkey, if Turkey has no rights, it is because the judiciary is completely under the command of Erdogan. Oh, it's going to cost Erdogan a lot of money. Since there's not enough time, of course, I'm not going to go into detail. But where is the Secretary of State? Where does he roam? Where the hell is the government? Tell me where he is. There's no government. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0086par0179	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0087par0181	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, the person who just spoke here has accused the AKP Group of treason. I want to answer.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0086par0182	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0087par0186	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. As part of our meeting with political party groups yesterday, we agreed on the Military Law yesterday, and today we decided to continue at work until eight o'clock to pass international contracts. Some of our fellow MPs, Mr. Kenan Godkulu -- thank him -- have criticised the actions we've done in the ten-year process of the AK PARTI, from his own perspective, from his own knowledge, without hurting him, economically, we don't participate, I don't participate in most of them. But we really appreciate his criticism in a gentleman's manner. That's the way it's supposed to be. But right now, he's gonna come in here and start with the Supreme Court's presidency, and his words against our President, our Prime Minister, they're gonna fall apart. So, again, this person came here, and our Deputy Director of the Group had answered, and he said: "I am returning all of your words to Mr Kemal Kilicdaroğlu." From there, our Republican People's Party Deputy, our friend said: "I couldn't bring it to Mr. Canikli." Why? Because that MP insulted us like that, but why are you sending insult to our president? Look, dear friends, I'm telling you, answering this person here is one of the hardest moments of my life because it bothers me to be on the same level. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) It's obviously upsetting.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0088par0191	You don't have a level.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0087par0192	If you say a word of conversation with a scholar is a pearl of coral, and if you do, the word of conversation with an ignorant person will hurt. This is the case. I mean, I'm really forced to take the word and answer. And I apologize for disturbing the High Council like this.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0089par0194	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0088par0195	Mr. President, first of all, I've been a lawmaker here for seven semesters with the right choice of my wrist. I didn't become a MP by kissing the hand of Recep Erdogan with an appointment like this. That's why I need him to respect me as a congressman.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0087par0196	You respect the President.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0088par0197	I'll return to you exactly what you've done, what you've said. I'll give it back to you. Okay?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0087par0198	Sue him, sue him. You're already on the case.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0088par0199	If you've got a wrist, come in independently.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0090par0200	Why didn't you get in independently this time? Are you scared?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0091par0201	Thank you. [[Continue]] Initiating question-answer sequence. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0092par0209	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you've just made a statement about the debt reserves with the IMF. My question is, did the IMF have a stand-by agreement during the AKP administrations? If it was done, what year was it made? Under this agreement, how much did governments borrow in total and how much did they pay? Which of the other international agencies has been taken from the amount of debt, and how much has the total debt stock now come to? And how do you assess that Turkey, which is the world's 16th largest economy -- in the same order as 2010 -- fell to the 18th place in 2012, with $415 billion in illegal revenues? Is this an indication of good economic management? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0093par0213	Thank you. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0094par0215	Mr. President, thank you. We don't have a Minister, but... our Minister of Agriculture has arrived, and I've been meaning to ask you for a while. The wheat harvest is near in Adana, and it is almost harvested. So does the Minister intend to issue a base price? So just now, our minister says, due to the IMF, the debts are low enough to be said to be non-existent, and he says the loans are low. I say, what's going to happen to these officers, they're making a number on the streets. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0095par0218	Thank you. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0096par0220	Thank you, Mayor. Now, I tried to ask the question yesterday, and Mr. Minister of National Education is here. Not now, but I'm still gonna ask that question. Many schools were damaged on May 19, 2011 because of the earthquake at Kütahya Simav. Pamukkale University has advised that the Kayaköy village Elementary School building should not be used or destroyed. The Kütahya County Council has decided that the construction of the school will be put into the program. Six months later, however, the municipal education advisors conducted reviews and evaluations on November 30, 2011, and decided that there was no need for schools in Kayaköy. Kayaköy is now a population of 543. The government has closed the Agricultural Loan Cooperate, the Health Accord, and the school is not necessary. HES had privatised and eliminated local workers' employment. Now there is no need for school in the city of 543. Do you have a grudge against the people of this town who are from CHP? I expect you to explain this situation. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0097par0224	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0098par0226	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I asked Mr. National Defence Minister yesterday, the PKK did the Uludere massacre. Today, Interior Minister Idris Naim Şahin says the commanders in the air force are monitoring the footage. So we didn't fully understand the situation -- as someone's job, as part of the Home Secretary, as part of the National Secretary of Defense -- two conflicting statements -- as Minister of Agriculture and Animalism, we expect the right answer from you. Which commander gave the order? Do you know anything about this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0099par0229	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0098par0230	Or what animal ordered it? I mean, it could be him.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0099par0231	Mr. Kaplan, please... You have the right to ask questions, but please, I mean...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0098par0233	I swear, slaughterers can't be human.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0100par0234	So whoever's doing this massacre is an animal, an animal!
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0098par0235	It can't be human beings who've been massacred.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0101par0236	You have the right to criticize, you have the right to ask questions, but the House...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0100par0237	Whoever did the massacre is an animal and an animal!
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0101par0238	I'll say the same thing, but if you say the same thing about the terrorist organization...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0100par0239	What do you mean? Are you protecting murderers?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0101par0240	Please...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0100par0241	How can you say such a thing?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0101par0242	It will be discussed here, it will be discussed, but you have no right to use those words for anyone.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0100par0243	It's the animal that does the slaughter, the animal is the animal!
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0101par0244	The sin belongs to the one who has the say.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0100par0245	Then you're protecting the killers.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0102par0246	You're protecting murderers? Isn't the terrorist organization the killer?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0101par0247	Mr. Sakek, no, I don't protect murderers. No one will answer for the killer.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0100par0248	It's a shame!
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0103par0249	The real animals are the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) who massacred our soldiers, our police, people in the east and southeast.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0101par0251	If you're going to ask questions, you're going to have to ask them according to your manners.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0100par0252	It's the animal that allows slaughter in the nation...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0103par0253	Go and shoot them in the mountains.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0101par0254	Ask your manners, please!
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0104par0255	This massacre cannot be the man who commands it. These people don't even...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0103par0256	That's what happens when you stop saying "Mr." to a terrorist.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0105par0257	The animal that martyrs our soldier is the animal, the animal is the animal!
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0104par0258	That's right, you say it, you say it, you say it, you say it.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0106par0259	Mr. Yilmaz, please...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0107par0260	That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0106par0261	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0108par0262	Why is the president always interfering? Come on, guys!
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0109par0263	But you can't use those things here.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0108par0264	That's not gonna happen. Don't let them interfere with everything. We're talking about a crime of humanity. What does he want to do?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0110par0265	I'll intervene when the rules and regulations are crossed. Please...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0108par0266	Mr. President, you're interfering a lot.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0110par0267	You have the right to criticize, you've been talking this way for two days, you've been interrupted here?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0111par0268	You're doing it right, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0108par0269	You're being unnecessary.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0110par0270	Mr. Yilmaz, please... I'm not going to ask you that it's unnecessary.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0112par0272	And we're not going to be taking orders from you, Mr. President, just so you know.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0110par0273	I'll give it to you here, I'm the Vice President, I'll give you instructions.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0112par0274	And you protect and protect the killers.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0110par0275	No one's here to protect the killers.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0112par0276	That's your job, then.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0110par0277	There's no one protecting the killers, there's a continuation of the terrorist organization, there's no one here who says he's a representative, there's a Turkish nation who knows that.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0113par0278	Let those who call the murderers consider them.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0112par0279	The Kurdish nation knows it, and all the people of Turkey know it.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0110par0280	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0112par0281	This country is not just the home of the Turks.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0114par0282	It's everyone's home.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0115par0283	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you a few questions about the baneman, of course, this could spread to the general. Now, first of all, the footman farmer has a problem: The barley and wheat plant are made too much in the footman. They're talking about the earth crop office for four or five years, because it doesn't give a base price, that the butler farmers have a toy in the merchant's hand, that the merchant buys it at a very low price and pays for it in the future -- that they pay for it in advance -- but if they were given the ground crops office a base price, they could sell it for much better prices, as in the past years. What is the practice in this regard? What's your opinion? That's what I want to know. And my second question is, as in the Aegean region, the baneman is at his last resort, and all the animal markets are closed. The villagers have to pay off serious loans because they can't take their animals to the animal market. Also, we've learned in the past that the type of virus has been analyzed, but it hasn't been done now, that the inoculations are insufficient, and that the village next door has not been given protection injections...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0116par0287	Mr. Yilmaz, please complete.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0115par0288	...that's why the diseases are increasing. How do you feel about that?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0116par0289	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0117par0290	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, the Chief of Staff issued a statement on May 4th on criticism of the rights of regular and retired petty officers. This statement, which was widely discussed in the political arena, was removed from the General Staff's website a few days ago. There have been different comments about this statement from the government's front. Prime Minister Erdogan should not be left without an answer. While saying "TSK" supports TSK's situation, AKP Speaker Hüseyin Çelik. Whatever the issue is, the TSK must not issue any statement. But let's face it, it wasn't nice to issue a statement against the petty officers either. Mr. Elitaş, deputy leader of the group, said that the General Staff would not be able to make a statement in the first place. In this direction, which of the three AKP officials will be valid, please explain. In his statements on the matter, the Prime Minister said that punishment and criticism are not the same. When and why is the petty officer's search for rights offensive? The Secretary of State of Defense is concerned...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0118par0294	Thank you. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0119par0296	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, about these fatty seeds, files in the Adana area and other areas are all set, everything's ready. Every year between the 15th and 20th of May, the payments were paid, unfortunately, not this year, but all sorts of excuses were made. Can you tell me when our farmer can get his bonuses on this? One other thing: I've brought it up before, and you're always bragging about how much money the Farm Bank lends. Please find out how much the Agriculture Bank reduced corn, cotton, watermelon and wheat to an acre this year. The farmer can't get the money he's paying right now, and he can't even get half of it. We'd appreciate it if you'd come up with a solution. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0120par0300	Thank you. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0121par0302	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Iğdır used to be known as Çukurova. The production of cotton in lğdır is completely finished in your time of power, and sugar beets in Iğdır are completely finished in your time of power, and now in Iğdır, unfortunately, there are no crops that can be considered normal because it can't be watered. We didn't get the support from the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. What would you say to the end of agriculture as Minister of Agriculture? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0122par0305	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, regarding the questions, the question of Mr. Light was about the IMF. The 18th and 19th stand-by arrangements were held with the IMF on January 18, 2002, and the 18th stand-by agreement with the IMF was made with the IMF before the AK PARTI ruling. The 18th stand-by agreement was signed in January 2002, before the EC PARTY came to power. The 19th stand-by agreement was approved on 26 April 2005.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0123par0309	Who was in power, sir? Now, during our time in power, an use of 8.6 billion SDR with the IMF was paid back 23.5 billion SDR. I'd like to stress that in particular. According to our country's acquisition power parity, according to the latest data in 2011, it ranks 16th among the world's economies. The order mentioned at 18 is now unconfirmed. There are rumors, but in order to get references, we have to do some evaluations at the end of the year, wait for the year. I mean, as of right now, it's too soon to say, it's not true. We have the exact data that we have now from 2011. According to 2011 data, it is the 16th place in the world's economies. Of course, despite the pessimism in some places, despite other economic problems in some places, Turkey's situation and growth, in fact, is the best answer to questions in this entire area. So we all know that the growth of the world's countries has clearly demonstrated Turkey's economic performance. Mr. Halaman's harvest of wheat has begun in Adana. It's shaped like... Dear friends, we make an assessment every year, of course, after the harvest, according to the yield of that year, according to the production situation. Our primary choice is: let supply and demand be met within the market's own mechanisms and let the price be priced. The farmer's support has increased beyond compare with the previous authorities during our time of power. We, the Department of Earth crop, announced the price in the last year and in the previous years. Just now, Mr. Congressman -- I believe it was Mr. Yilmaz -- when he was talking about the baneman, he said that the price had not been announced for four or five years, and that the price had not been given. This information is not real, let's fix it, it's not true. And last year, in the previous years, the land crop office was doing an acquisition. A price arrangement and implementation was made, which the manufacturer was extremely pleased with. And again this year, we've been keeping a close eye on the situation. After the supply has been released, the manufacturer's condition states that if the Earth crop office needs to intervene, the Earth crop office will intervene. But we do it all the time, and we do it the same way it wasn't before: one: shortly after the purchases started, the land crop office is starting acquisition. In this escrow, the manufacturers don't get a particular rent, etcetera. If the manufacturer wants it later, he'll sell it to the land crops office at the price we've announced, or he can take it and sell it on the free market. Last year, we started another practice, a new practice in this field, a practice that all manufacturers and industrialists are very pleased with in Turkey, which is that, thanks to the protein devices we bought, at about three hundred points in Turkey, all the places where the purchases are put into the wheat machine. It's the same as how you give a sample of the blood in the hospital, and you get biochemistry tests, and this is how you put the wheat in the machine, and that machine gives us all the parameters of that wheat, so how many percent proteins, gluteni, what other properties, what other properties are they, and that's how prices automatically do it.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0124par0317	The wheat is now below last year's price, Minister. The manufacturer is very pleased. Quality has shown a serious increase because with an application like this, it's now the same as it's never been done in the past, where it's stored in close-quality products together, and the industrialist wants 12 percent protein wheat or 10 percent protein wheat. When you say that, that's where it's being directed. So, a very serious development in quality has been made in this area about buying. Mr. Secretary, the price of wheat is now below last year's price. Tell us what you intend to do to increase it. Now, friends, last year's price has greatly pleased the manufacturer. Where's the happy manufacturer? Last year, there was a price of $600 a ton, plus $50 a ton, and... Either I don't live in this country or you don't live in this country, Mr. Secretary! It was a very good price when we looked at the cost and the price of the world. The price of this year is neither economically nor in any other sense needed until the wheat has yet to come out, before the harvest has yet to be harvested. This will come out when the need arises, but the manufacturer has never been victimized before or since, because Turkey produced around 21.8 million tonnes of wheat last year, which was a significant increase from the previous year. And this year, as of now, we expect a production that will not be under 21 million tons of wheat again. The premiums on fatty seeds are paid in May and June. This year, it will be paid by the end of May or the first week of June at the latest, and preparations are now made for it. So there's no problem with the fat seed payments. As of now, we have paid 3.5 billion of the farmers' support we plan to pay within a year. By the end of this month, with the money we're going to pay this month, this will have found 5 billion dollars -- 5 quadrillion dollars. Now, when we consider a payment of $1 billion 800 million a year in 2002, I want to say again on this occasion that it's only paid $5 billion as of May, and by the end of the year, we're going to pay an average of $7.5 billion. There's been a problem with the smack disease. That information isn't accurate. There's a shipment of vaccines involved in both the slap and the demand. The immunization is done twice a year, and it's never been done before. For the past few years, all major animals in Turkey have been vaccinated twice a year, but when there's animal activity, of course, we have to take quarantine measures, we take these measures, and then we continue to take them. I'll answer the other questions in writing.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0125par0328	Thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0126par0329	Is there such a thing as a postponement of loans, Mr. Secretary? Making sure the loans are postponed...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit02spe0125par0330	The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0125par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 110th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 177. The commission and the government are in place. THE PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION OF REFECTIONAL PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION OF REFECTIVES IN THE LAND OF MONEY CONTROL MADDE 1- (1) was approved on December 15, 2010, with the approval of the amendments proposed to be related to the Executive Directors' Committee Reform in the International Money Fund Main Contract-si. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Oktay Vural, İzmir MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0127par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Very valuable lawmakers, I have asked for a word in order to make a brief assessment of a few issues regarding this international contract. First of all, Mr. Speaker, I'd like to say that the position the Deputy Speaker put forward in the previous session was a way of maintaining the sensitivity and values of the Turkish nation. Therefore, in this respect, I would like to point out that the parliamentary speakers who run the House are not to be criticised for their actions in accordance with the sensitivity of the Turkish nation; on the contrary, they are one of the duties of the vice-presidents leading the House. On the other hand, we have an assessment from Mr. Ahmet Kenan Godkulu, who is speaking on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, on the information he has provided regarding the debts. Of course, when making this assessment, it's almost as if Turkey's debt supply was running low, as if it were paying its debts, but it's not. Because in 2002, Turkey owed $220 billion, and today it owes $595 billion. Turkey's debt supply is increasing. Moreover, the savings rate, which was 24 per cent in 2002, dropped to 12 per cent today. Turkey's GDP has reached 10 per cent of the current deficit. Thus, Turkey has a problem, and there is no point in covering it up. Since Turkey's current transaction deficit is already a problem, the government's importation with a number of measures, some measures to reduce its current transaction deficit, and some measures to increase its austerity, suggests that such a problem exists. Therefore, the minister's debt of the IMF came down from here. The expression, such as that, has no meaning, no meaning. Because Turkey is not only in debt to the IMF. Unfortunately, Turkey has significant problems with $595 billion and as one of the world's most profitable countries, which is the purpose of today's increase in salaries to officials at 3.5 per cent, as well as the average 5 per cent per year of Turkey's collapse into a country like Greece. It's a result. In that sense, we are constantly paying the debt to IMF, and you are paying the debt to the IMF, and your debt to other institutions is increasing. When it's looked like this, especially now, Mr. Alim Bey asked the Minister, but the information wasn't given. The IMF said that the agreement on the IMF was made during the AKP period, but the IMF is only one of those when the category of debt to international authorities is considered, in fact, a debt to the IMF debt. International organisations include the World Bank, the International Development Bank and other international organisations. Now, look, your debt to the IMF has fallen. Where did he fall from? Foreign debt stock: The Bank of International Development and Development has a debt supply of $5.3 billion in 2002 and $12.1 billion in 2011; where did it fall from? Debts to other international organisations increased by $3.6 billion in 2002, $17.5 billion in 2011. I mean, when you're in public, you have to tell the truth and the truth. The debt to international institutions has increased. In all, those who say debt on the IMF has been reduced, do not say that the debt to international organisations officially has increased to $33 billion in 2002, while the debt to international companies has increased to $34 billion in 2011. In that way, I mean, people need to know the truth. If, as they say, this country is in a country economy that can pay off its debt, then why are the petty officers standing, why are the underprivileged teachers standing, in distress, why are the public officials standing today for an average increase of 3.5 per cent? Everybody's up. The old tea makers were in trouble, and they shut down the highway. At this point where we are coming in today, an economy, tweezers, a debt is reduced from the IMF. Your debt from the IMF has been reduced, and your debt from the International Bank of Development has increased, and your debt has increased in total. The household's economies are also in debt, and the household's economy, which is 4 per cent, has risen to 45 per cent. There's no capacity for repayment. So when it's looked at today, the following ones will receive the highest level of follow-up follow-up since 2010, up to 20 billion euros. We're in serious trouble. While making economic assessments of such significant tribulations, it has declined at work here. It is not, frankly, a wrong, right assessment to form a policy over it. I'd also like to express a subject in this frame. Dear lawmakers, look, a 3.5 per cent raise, a half raise, is far from meeting public officials' demands, their economic expectations, and today public officials have taken a warning action. Now, our MPs participated in such an act of caution. Our MPs for Adana, Ali Halaman, Seyfetttin Yilmaz, Mersin MP Ali Öz, Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu attended Abdi İpekçi, where they went, they said, "We are together." The action's over, on the way back, unfortunately there's been an intervention, broken feet, pepper spray. My dear friends, I mean, this is the kind of thing that happens when government officials are looking for collective contracts. How's that? It's digesting... look, in social events, in this kind of socioeconomic event, pressure, threats, violence, baton, pepper spray, it's not an appropriate management model to digest society. The problems faced by sports clubs, the fans, the Fenerbahçe fans, or the Göztepe fans... where, as they go back from Abdi İpekçi to the headquarters, barricades are set up, pepper gas, bat, broken feet... here is Turkish President Ismail Konçık. There are papers, there are pepper gas on the websites. That can't happen. I'm strong, I'm right. It's not right to digest them in a way that people are looking for their rights, their rights, their rights. What do they want? As the sheriff of the Prophet's decree, pay the workers before they run dry. They've been sweating their asses off, there's no pay yet. Is it unfair to ask? In that respect, I condemn this treatment of public officials. It's an extremely wrong treatment. When that happens, is Turkey doing this act to intimidate the public-sen? All must learn that the devil is not silent in the face of injustice, and that obedience cannot be justified in the face of the superior, and that he is not a mute devil in the face of injustice. Is it right? In the first four months, inflation exceeds 3 per cent, when you look at real inflation. So it's a right to offer officers 3 percent in the first six months? Therefore, I condemn the treatment of such a subject. I particularly condemn this understanding of governance as a reflection of pressure, threats, violent intimidation, management. I wanted to share with you the fact that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a Parliament that can give the rights to those who have the rights, and that it is the Parliament of the nation, and that the practices on this matter are wrong. In particular, it is not possible for us to accept that in such a matter, in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, police would be subjected to such treatment, someone's direction and provocation, while expressing the injustice caused by petty officers, defending 3600 indicators, and Turkey's Public-Sen, as well as a struggle to protect police rights. As the National Movement Party, we condemn such a rule, and express our regret over these actions, and I pay all of you my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0128par0022	Thank you. Any other requests? No. Mr. Agha, come in.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0129par0025	Mr. President, as in all parts of Turkey, Malatya is also in full swing. Malatiah Akçadağ, Battalgazi, Yeşilyurt, and Doğanşehir, were hired with the so-called tenders which were held recently. Renting services for forty-nine years is equivalent to starving people living in that area. The livestock is ending in those villages. Especially in the village of Dedeyaz in Doğanşehir district, the land was rented into the village, and the villagers were unable to act as animals. So the people who made this tender say: "Don't be an animal. Sell the animals you have, the lambs, the sheep, the cows. Go work for those who have received the great contract. During this period, especially recently, mountains in Malatya were sold, stones sold, land sold. Of course, you know, all the institutions in Malatya, all the production institutions, all the monopoly, the Sumerbank, and now the Sugar Sequence...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0128par0028	Thank you. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0130par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, there's a 19% increase in electricity, 16.6% in natural gas. Officer's 3.5+4. How can you explain that, Mr. Secretary? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0131par0033	Thank you. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0132par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. It's about the price of wheat, Mr. Minister, and he's just told me that the land crops office has bought wheat in escrow, put a trust price on it, measured its protein value. So none of this is what makes the manufacturer's wheat worth more money, Mr. Secretary. If you want the manufacturer's wheat to be worth more, I'll put the Earth crop office directly into action and pay cash for that money. I forbid imports and imports, and in September I will sell them for this price. When you say, "The manufacturer's wheat is worth money, but you never could say it. Please prevent the farmer from being victimized in this matter. No, we're buying wheat for the trust, no, we're increasing protein value to this much, not the manufacturer... of course, good wheat...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0131par0038	Thank you. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0133par0040	Mr. President, I thank you. Mr. Minister of Agriculture said it was really soft, but that's not entirely true. If we want the farmer's property to pay for it, there's no need for the Department of Agriculture to get in front of the merchant, the Department of Agriculture has to get behind the trader. Somewhere in the middle, I'm announcing the price. It's like letting the merchant buy first, and then I'm going to take it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0134par0043	Thank you. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0135par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I have two questions. First of all, why do state institutions in Iğdır take potatoes, onions, etcetera, but not from Iğdır, and other cities? We Iğdırans are very curious about this. Secondly, does anyone in your ministry read that you can make governor there? You are especially expelling all the governors of the province of Iğdır from the Southeast Anatolian region. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0136par0049	Thank you. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0137par0051	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, yesterday we were with the local potato makers of Nevşehir Deepkuyu, Niğde Azatlı. There's really a big problem with the potatoes in the area, the potatoes are sprouting. They're expecting the government's hot hand from the manufacturers as soon as possible. They've taken water out of a 180-meter well, they've grown this potato, they've thrown its fertilizer, they've used its medicine, they've used it, they've used its diesel, but they've got a demand to be detected immediately, supported by the government, or that the potatoes in the warehouses should be taken and handed over to the officer, such as school milk. Indeed, there is a surplus potato in the Ark, and the same is true in the villages of Bolu. We have established a commission before. I demand that you address this matter as a government, with respect.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0138par0054	Thank you. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0139par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there is a serious problem with tea in the Black Sea. Due to quotas and quotas applied to teamakers, a ten kilogram daily limit is applied. So today in Rize, the tea makers blocked the main road, the Black Sea coast road, and poured tea on the coast road. That's why there's been a very serious influx in the Black Sea region. Do you intend to take any precautions to repair this infinal? Do you have any work on lifting the quota? This quota application has severely victimised the manufacturers, do you have any work as the Ministry of Resolving this victim? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0140par0059	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, we've found that many of our valued deputies have made a statement of opinion rather than of asking questions. The thing about tea is, you know, with all its factories, it buys more than half of tea a year. He's currently using his capacity to about 100 percent, which means about 7,000 tons of tea per day. Of course, these factories have a capacity, a daily amount of work. That's what this quota thing is all about. He's in the private sector. The demand, of course, is that we should sell them all to CHIKUR and not to the private sector, so there's a bit of trouble about that. With all his strength, all his potential... In fact, it increased its daily capacity from 6,600 tons to 7,000 tons, compared to the years before this year, and now it has a factory in all its factories, which is around 50, which makes this purchase. Of course, there's a private sector. At the price of the 110 cents/kilogram-year-old tea, we pay a bonus of 12 cents, a total of 122 cents for the teamaker. What can be done about the purchase is that these factories work with the full capacity of chaIKUR factories and take it with the capacity that producers can use as much tea as possible, and I want to express that in particular. About the potatoes, of course, there's a supply surplus. This year, the potato -- you know -- in the last few weeks, in the months, there's been an unexpected frost problem. We, as a government, are now preparing to pay around $200 to pay the potato producer specifically for his seedling, because it cannot be assessed under this insurance policy, because it cannot be insured. A decision on this is being issued at the moment, a decision by the Agricultural Support and Guidance Board. Of course, it's a question of consumption, so Turkey produces 150 kinds of products, which can occasionally become a supply surplus in some products. You have to do it in market terms, but you don't have to compare it to milk because milk is a special product. The School Milk Project continues successfully despite all efforts to block politics, while 7 million, 200,000 students are given 200 milliliters of NHT milk per day, and the complaints are almost complete, so there are not many complaints left, and this practice continues. There is no situation in which those assigned to state institutions are chosen from a specific region. Thus, the view that Iğdır was appointed only from the Southeast Anatolian region is not right.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0141par0069	I'll present it to you if you like, Mr. Secretary. GIDE, AGENT AND ANIMALITY SEEMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakır) You can present it. You'd better.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0142par0071	What do we do with the unanswered questions? Is it written or answered...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0143par0072	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. A request for word on matter on behalf of groups? No. Kamer Young, the Tunceli MP who asked for a personal word.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0144par0078	Mr. President, we're negotiating international agreements. Ahmet Davutoglu, sitting in the office of the foreign minister of the state, is not in the market. Turkey is losing value in the world, there is no foreign policy liability, the Council of Ministers is empty. Well, if you're so fed up with yourself, I mean, if you're embarrassed in front of the House, if you don't have a face, then quit. Now, look, valuable MPs, 34 of our citizens have been killed in Uludere. This Uludere thing is not something that's going to be thrown away, it's not something that's going to be shut down. This incident is a source of great sadness for our Kurdish citizens. So the government of the Republic of Turkey gives a directive -- Prime Minister Erdogan is responsible for this, the government is responsible -- and 34 of our citizens are being killed there. There's nothing to shut up about, there's nothing to put off. If the government is responsible, if there is a concept called a sense of responsibility, it must resign immediately. Friends, it is the government who gives the order here. Today, the Home Secretary says: "He is an officer in the Air Force. " You're the one who got the authority from the House? You're the one who got the authority from the House. You can't just put this on an Air Force officer, and you can't clear yourselves. In fact, the AKP's group needs to focus on this; the group needs to reduce the government. Friends, this is a movement to divide the state of the Republic of Turkey. It is the greatest leverage given to those who are trying to divide the state of the Republic of Turkey, except for the killing of 34 lives. So, it's not something to be neglected or covered up about. That's not just two or three words in here right now, I don't know, blaming it. Now, I'm going up here, talking. I'm a politician of the years, I've been talking on this bench for thirty years, folks. I've always expressed corruption, injustices, tortures on this stand. Now, a AKP guy comes out to me and he says, "This guy, I don't do this." Sir, what you've told us, we'll return to your president. If you're saying anything about my president, go ahead. You're covered in blood? Why? Is your mouth locked? If your forehead's open, tell me if you know the right thing, but I'm bringing in hundreds, thousands of abuses, robbery. We're on the CSI Commission, we talk about a lot of abuses every day, but there are 21 AKP MPs, they don't talk about anything, they just raise a finger to relatives. What kind of CSU commission is that, guys? After that, there's corruption in all the tenders, not all of them, but there's corruption in a large part of them. Think about it, folks, today, for example, an agricultural bank, they're giving 18 billion dollars to a general manager, 18 billion, and four paychecks a year. They get regular officers, they pay $7.5 billion, four bonuses. That's no way to loot a government! There's more like it. The corruption in the coal, the corruption in the oil, the corruption in the tenders... we'll say that, but if you're deaf, if you're not responsible, when we say it, you'll either not do it or you'll suffer the consequences. After that, we will return what you have said to the President. Are you weak to speak to me? What does it have to do with my president? Who am I dealing with? He is the ruling Prime Minister, today in power, Erdogan and Abdullah Gül have been abroad every day. I'm going to Thrace the other day, guys, and I looked, and there's a plane full of cops. Where's he going? To protect him. Is there no protection there? No. Friends are going abroad, at least 80 or 90 cops are going there four days ago, eating, drinking, flying back and forth, how much does the hotel money cost? It is in the dorm. Recep Erdogan has formed an army of 5,000 police officers today to protect him. Why can't you just walk around in public? Come on, my friend, tell him here. Why can't you face it? Come out in public, if you really don't have a stain on your back, I'll see you walking around in public with your head held high! And then after that, I'm just gonna... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You don't have the guts to go public!
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0145par0090	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0144par0091	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0145par0093	I submit the item to your votes:
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0146par0094	Mr. President, I'd like a word on my own behalf.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0145par0095	Those who refuse... are accepted. I noticed later, Mr. Elitaş, no offense. Article 3: These laws are carried out by the Council of Ministers.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0147par0099	Mr. President, I want word on behalf of the group.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0145par0100	Mustafa Elitaş, Kayseri MP on behalf of the AK PARTY Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0147par0102	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. In the framework of this contract with the IMF, constructive criticisms of our dear friends have emerged, but I would like to clarify some issues from my frame, from my side of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's General Assembly's General Assembly, that some of the issues have been misleadingly informed while presenting some figures. See, dear friends, in 2002, Turkey's debt was 221 billion dollars. In 2012, Turkey owed $595 billion. In 2002, Turkey's GDP was $2231 billion. So we've put together all year's sweat; we've got our worker, our civil servant, our industrialist, all the plus values, all the profits, we've got 231 billion dollars. In return, we've paid off our debt, we've got $10 billion left in our pocket. As of the end of 2011, 2012, Turkey's total debt was $595 billion. In the same way, the people of this country worked for 75 million people, brought together their sweats; we made $772 billion in 2011, when the worker's salary, the officer's salary, the worker's wages, the business man's profits, all kinds of savings came together. So what do we have today if we try to pay off all our debts? We have 177 billion dollars plus value left. In 2002, we only got $10 billion, after we paid our debt, and in 2011, we got a $177 billion plus income. As of 2011, you're looking at the value of $2231 billion in illegitimate domestics in 2002, which is $772 billion; when you multiply it, you're dealing with an increase of about four times as much. Again, citizens of the Republic of Turkey, which acquired 370 billion Turkish dollars in illegal domestic revenues in 2002, acquired $1 trillion 404 billion in illegal domestic property in 2011. In 2002, minimum wage was 184 liras, while the minimum wage was up to 751 liras in early 2012. The minimum wage has increased nearly fourfold.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0148par0105	Tell me about the price hikes!
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0147par0106	The minimum wage was $111 in 2002, while the minimum wage went up to $420 today.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0149par0107	Can you tell me what happened to the power? Tell me the price of electricity and natural gas!
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0147par0108	Dear lawmakers, we don't state that the minimum wage is high. We don't say the minimum officer's salary is high. The 57th government and the 56th government, and the governments before them, no one paid for these payments, the members of the Council of Ministers, and the prime minister didn't pay for them out of his pocket. Members of the 58, 59, 60, 61, are not paying the salaries paid to our officer, the wages paid to our workers, they are paying from the resources of this country, according to budget opportunities. Look, I'd like to share some numbers with you again. We've already told you about the concepts of buying power. Dear lawmakers were paid 7 lira in 2002, while 9/1 officers were paid 1 lira. In 2002 -- pay attention -- undersecretary, highest civil servant, gets a salary of $7, lowest, 9/1 civil servants get a salary of 1 lira, so he gets seven times the salary of the highest public official. As of July 2011, the difference between a civil servant and an undersecretary was reduced to 3.4 times that. We've brought up a social policy that envisions a higher salary policy, a higher salary, but a higher salary. Look, valuable lawmakers, as of 2002, 18.4 per cent TÜFE, 24.8 per cent salary increase, 9.7 per cent TÜFE in 2006, 22.5 per cent salary increase in civil servants; 10.1 per cent in 2008, officer salary increase 23.2% in 2008; 10.45 per cent in TÜFE, 18.3 per cent in salary increase in civil servants. Consider: In Turkey, where we entered 2002, the results of the 2001 crisis, people in this country were anxious to see their future guaranteed, not raised wages. But right now the Turkish economy is improving, growing up, the union of officers, they say: "This is how much Turkey's economy has increased over ten years, and we want a share of prosperity from here, we want a share of prosperity." Ten years ago, people of this country were anxious to ask this country's state, government's salary, and they had concerns about whether or not they would give it. But now they're making demands, demands, demands to increase the level of prosperity. A person has to exist to demand something, it has to be a resource, it has to produce it; this is one of the most important differences in 2012 Turkey. Look, dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you again the GDP increases from 2000 to 2010. The rise of the United States from 2000 to 2010 is 47 per cent of illegal domestic product; Britain 52.6; Germany 73.5; France 91.7; Italy 85.1; Spain 136.1; Greece 140.2. Turkey's GDP increase has been 177 per cent in ten years. Dear friends, this nation has been following these truths for ten years, this development, the discovery of this country's positive value, and the fact that Turkey is not only an extra, but has become a global actor. In ten years, this country continues to support its power in the same way, as it has increased both in the election of local governments and in the general elections. Public opinion polls say this support is in the same way. Look, dear lawmakers, I'd also like to share a matter with you. We had a philosophy teacher in high school -- if he was alive, his ears ringing, if he was dead, God rest his soul -- and his dear friends would say: "A person paints a picture of whatever place he grew up in, or he brings it up." Let's put together a painter who lives in the palace and a painter who lives in the village. Let's say to the two painters: draw a large table. The painter in the palace, with silver or golden spoons, puts together a large table in gold plates, and a table in which the bird's milk is not missing, but the shepherd does a little something with the finder's rice. Whatever a person saw, however he was raised in that environment, he assesses it within that framework. The MP who came up here is constantly talking about corruption, theft. I mean, have you ever thought about anything in your life but corruption and theft? (APPLAUSE) During your time as a legislator, have you ever been in such disgrace that you have the right to insult the Justice and Development Party government, the Prime Minister, the President, who has represented this nation with the legal vote as your mother's milk? With these feelings, I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0150par0116	Any other requests? No. The question-answer process will be done. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0151par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how do you assess Turkey's going back about 15 rows in 2000, compared to the national income per cent per million per year and 2011 figures? Because you're the Minister of Agriculture, I'm asking you on behalf of the government, as well as the opportunity to sit there. Especially in your time, most of our citizens who benefit from the zero-interested breeding of cattle are suffering from the collection of dismantling cattle due to brusella disease. For example, the village of Domanic, Kütahya Province, is located in Çukurca district of Kütahya Province. What kind of precaution did you have in mind? What way will you follow in the fight of diseased animals throughout Turkey? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0152par0123	Thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0153par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, with a recent amendment to this Hal Act, the 2% version has been reduced to 1%. 0.25 per cent were given to the producer municipality on the ground and 0.75 per cent to the municipality where the product was sent. This is a case against where production is being made. Do you intend to even this out or reverse these rates? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0154par0128	Thank you. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0155par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. We just told Mr. Secretary our idea, and he didn't like it, so he didn't like it because we were telling the truth. Well, then let's ask: Do you plan on banning imports from the day of the wheat harvest to the end of the wheat harvest, by the end of August, even in the middle of September? One. Or do you plan to increase the fund value of imports? Two. Again, you haven't answered my question about the Agriculture Bank. Last year, corn was given $358 million per acre, but this year it was only half-priced. Last year's salary for the cattle is only half this year. The farmer can't get half of the money he's paying, and he can't get half of it. Do you have anything to do with this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0156par0134	Thank you. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0157par0136	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, I just told you, he's really sweet, but uncertainty isn't a good thing. This wheat harvest is the first to be harvested in Adana. So, Mr. Minister of Agriculture has no intention of saying something about this price in the name of a preemptive buyout? One day tomorrow, this wheat will be left in the middle. That's why we want the Department of Agriculture to take some advantage of it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0158par0139	Thank you. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0159par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, on February 15th, there was a study of the recruitment of a security guard at the Iğdır State Production Farm. One of our citizens applied and recommended me as MP. In response to Ayhan Karayaman, your deputy director-in-chief of TİGEM, he says to this citizen: "We were going to take you, but since your reference is MP MHP Iğdir, we will not be able to take you. " Is this a partisan attitude, Mr. Karayaman, or did you give this instruction?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0158par0143	Thank you. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0160par0145	I'd like to ask the Minister. Today there are statements from Minister of Interior İdris Naim Şahin. On one television channel, it says that these citizens were smugglers. BDP gave this order. If they were caught alive, they would be tried for smuggling. There is no such thing as apologizing when you look at the entire film. If that's true, if you agree, why is compensation paid for the murdered young people? The penalty for smuggling is to be killed? Besides, as a cabinet minister, isn't that a contrast with the tears you shed at funerals? The penalty for smuggling is to be killed? I wanted to ask you as a district MP.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0158par0147	Thank you. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0161par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I don't think your answer to my question about tea is very believable, which is that the capacity of 7,000 tons of tea per day is 4,000 today in the East Black Sea. We think it's been applied around 500 tons. If the numbers you're saying were not a problem with the quota application, at least 10,000 tons a day should run tea. Therefore, because of the quota application, the manufacturer is a major victim. Since he doesn't buy tea, half the base price you've announced, almost 65 cents' worth of tea, the tea maker gives tea to the private sector, and therefore travels in great sacrifice, taking part of its money as olives, not in cash a year later, but in part as dry tea, not as olives. Therefore, there is a victim. Are you planning on doing anything about it? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit03spe0162par0152	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. Thank you, Mr. President. Before, of course, there's been a lot of talk about this growth, debt, etcetera, and so on and so forth. Once again, it is important to compare Turkey's debt to the external debt -- especially to the IMF and to all other international institutions -- with Turkey's national income from that day, and to compare that day with today. Now, in 2002, Turkey's public debt supply for all international organisations was $29 billion. This is $29 billion; Turkey's total income at that time is $230 billion and the rate of debt to multinational organisations -- more accurately to international organisations -- is 12.6 per cent. Now, today, that's $34 billion in 2011. So there was talk of the International Bank of Development and Development; the debt is $34 billion, including the Bank of Development and Development, but Turkey's national income -- which has just been said -- over 750 billion dollars. When we compare this day with national income, and when we compare it, we see that this corresponds to 4.4 percent. So ten years ago, Turkey's debt to international institutions is 12.6 per cent of its national income, but today it is 4.4 per cent, which is a one-third drop. Thus, Turkey's debt to international organisations also shows a substantial decline, no increase. On the contrary, Turkey's national income also has a three-fold growth. Mr. President, of course, there is a very effective fight on animal disease in Turkey at this time. But everybody knows that animal disease knows no limits, and when we consider a country between two and three continents, such as Turkey, where there are no serious measures for animal disease, as its neighbors, it will take a long time for all of these diseases to be cured, and we will have to put up with a lot of costs. There's no increase in Brucellada proportions, and brucella is under insurance if there's any interest-free loans or other cooperative practices provided by the Ministry or the government. So it's covered by insurance. If the disease is detected, those citizens will be given new healthy animals instead of these animals. I'd like to stress that in particular. Now, it's being repeated over and over again about wheat imports or the price of wheat. Dear friends, in the time of our government, we have never victimized the manufacturer. And we can't even do it this year, but we don't even have the product yet, so here we are, sir, let's get up front, let's put a price on it, let's go first, it's not the economy's job to direct Turkey right. With such populist policies in the past, I'll give you five more. Our entire nation already knows where Turkey puts it and what crises it's carrying, and Turkey has suffered for many years. When you interfere when you don't need to, there's no point in announcing a price, it's not economic. So we'll explain it when the time comes. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the law, the bill of law on the adoption of amendments proposed in relation to the Executive Directors' Committee Reform in the International Convention on the Fund of Money is open to vote: ▪ Number of votes used : 243 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit04spe0162par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 110th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Iran between the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran and Esendere and Sero Kara Border Gates in accordance with the Agreement Approved for Joint Use. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by the number of seven rows. Ali Haydar Öner, Isparta MP who asked for the Republican People's Party Group to speak on the whole bill.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit04spe0163par0008	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I have made a pledge on Bill Number Seven. As it is known, the Iranian border is the only limit not defined by imperial forces. The 404-mile-long border, IV. Murad's Treaty of Kashrishir is a border that we have maintained so far after the campaign in Baghdad. We have an agreement here on the border gate between Esendere (Esendere) and Sero (A Ürumiye). An agreement signed by Minister of State, current Customs and Trade Minister Mr. Hayati Yazit. By Iran, Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance Shamseddin Hosseini in Ramsar, on March 2010 22nd. It is an agreement between Turkey and Iran that strengthens friendship, brotherhood, and will increase our commercial capacity because there are about 700,000 people in Urumiyah, and 90 percent of them are Azerbaijan. There's been a long-distance traffic between Esendere (Sero) and Sero, which is located within the district of Yükselova. In these areas, Turkey's Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges has also agreed to build a new border door. It's a work that will speed up traffic with the doors that have been made before, to make progress, to provide time and gain for our country. In that respect, Turkey also voiced this understanding of cooperation by the Chambers and Stock Exchange Association, and we thank them. With this door, lawmakers will promote political, cultural and economic co-operation between Iran and Turkey, increasing, expanding, stability and security of the region, tourism movement, contributing to peace, boosting prosperity, improving development. In this regard, we welcome this bill as the Republican People's Party Group. (x) 7 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Our wish is that our Iranian friends who will come through this door show the respect we show for their traditions and values while we visit them when they come to Turkey. When Mr. Presidents arrived, they didn't come to Ankara. They held talks in İstanbul. This has not been a very pleasant appearance for Turkey. As we show respect for their values when we go to Iran, when they come to Turkey, if they respect our values, our national values, they lose nothing. Especially if they visit the site of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, one of the leaders of the greatest services to the Turkish nation and the Islamic world, and read the Fatiha enough to leave a flower, they'll probably have done the right thing. Dear lawmakers, our exports to Iran in 2010 are about $3.4 billion, and our imports are around $7.64 billion. We have a serious foreign trade deficit here. The products we buy from them are obvious, but for some reason the prices of the products we buy from them are unclear, and the prices of the products, particularly natural gas and oil, are not explained. So we sell them some raw materials and some goods. For this capacity to be expanded, it is beneficial for businessmen, trade, industrial chamber delegations, to concentrate on contact with Iran. But one thing that hurts us, Mr. President Mahmoud Ahmadinejat, is that Mr. President of Iran has kept him waiting for 12 hours, yet he accepts the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Syria. In the same way, the religious leader Hamaney (Hamaney) is expected to be accepted in the capital rather than in favour of the acceptance to Tebriz. These are the circumstances we suffer for our country. But Turkey-Iran relations are not just relations between Turkey and Iran. The world presents a complex network of political relations. While trying to get along with Iran, an early warning system is set up, Iran is investigating what's the early warning system in the Globecicle. Is there no justification for the questions of our friends in Iran? Before it was said: "This is NATO's radar base, the missile shield system." It was recently discovered that NATO had nothing like that because in Chicago, this base was just transferred to NATO with the approval of Obama. Who's got his signature on this era? Mr. Rasmussen. Who's Rasmussen? The Secretary General of NATO, who is hosting Roj TV, who does not insult the Grand Prophet of Islam. Who chose him there? We chose. We were supposed to compromise. What compromise did we get? What does Mr. Rasmussen say now? ▪ Where are the euro dangers coming from? From the eurozone, from Europe. Where do the Atlantic dangers come from? He is NATO, and there is no danger there. Where's the danger coming from? Probably from Iran. We're setting up a radar system against Iran. What country will benefit the most from it? Let's say it without fear, without hesitation: Israel. I thought you said Israel was retreated with one minute? One way or the other, which one do we believe in, which one do we trust in? Relations with Iran are not only relations with Iran, but relations with Iran and Syria. We were brothers with Syria, and with Bezar Assad, and with Bezar Assad, and with him we were enemies. He was the same man, 1.80-1.90, a tall man, but he was a friend when Assad was a friend, and suddenly his name changed, and he became an enemy, and he became an enemy. His enemies were invited to Turkey. We offer them the resources that we have spared the victims of the earthquake. A friend of mine from last Mardin called me, and he said, "Mr. Governor, the guests there occasionally go to the Syrian border and start fighting and return." And then they say, "This is what happened, this is what happened." These are things that everyone knows but doesn't say, doesn't say. Our brothers and sisters in Van have lost many children in tents, in fires, but in containers where we have hosted regimes in Syria, the earthquake victims face a great deal of difficulty. Our relations with Iran are not just relations with Iran. Our relations with Iraq, our relations with Russia, our relations with Israel, our relations with the United States are deeply affected by our relations with Iran. In that sense, we need to conduct our relations with our Iranian friends based on bilateral sovereignty and right interests in the two countries, and while they're fighting with Iran, sir, we need to avoid extreme intimacy with those we should be looking at with suspicion of their friendly relations with us.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit04spe0164par0020	You're one to talk!
tbmm-2012-05-23sit04spe0163par0021	I don't understand, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit04spe0164par0022	Copy that...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit04spe0165par0023	Please, Congressman...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit04spe0163par0024	Whatever you call it, I'm ready to listen, ready to take advantage of you. That's not how you talk from a distance. Dear friends, I've recently had a heart operation -- God bless you all -- five vessels altered. I'm happy to be back with you. This bypass operation has caused me some bodily pain, but in the meantime, the real disturbances are in the field of lawlessness, in the field of injustice, in the field of corruption, in the field of protection of corruption, in the field of caring for corruption. He's so much bigger, there's no way to cure him because in these three days, there's going to be a five-day event, but there's people who've heard of it, there's people who haven't heard of it. Especially on May 19th, the Turkish nation was detained from the remembrance of Ataturk, which I express under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- the biggest inconvenience. [[Applause from CHP rows]] This nation was tried to be cut off from the remembrance of Ataturk, who founded this assembly, but the squares were not silent, and the young were not silent, and we were soldiers of Mustafa Kemal. The people walked, and put a wreath on the monuments. We're on the trail of Ata. Some of the careless, some of the ingrates gave the Turkish police the task of not having them put a wreath on the monument of Ata. What does it mean not to have a wreath placed on the monument of Ataturk? In a masterful maneuver -- suspected of suicide, the National Education Minister, whose nationality is illegal -- the artillery who understands the ball better than real estate and automotive, has been celebrated throughout Turkey. There's no telling if it's a holiday or a fair; there's another one, there's another one. The state of the Republic of Turkey is a long-standing state, a state that has formed civilizations of the Turkish nation, not a nation that is ungrateful to the Ancestor. Don't let anyone take credit for these organizations and think they'll get away with it. The Turkish nation will throw those who want to distance themselves from national emotions into history's garbage bins, just so you know. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We were continuing the zero problem policy with Iraq. Today an Iraqi official, our guest, VIP guest, is protected here at VIP status, a man who has been identified by his own protection as a member of the group. Is Turkey the shelter of illegals, friends? Earlier, we had a guest here, who was called Omer El Bashir. International criminal courts have filed a complaint against him, known as the murderer of thousands of people, and we are welcomed by state officials. Turkey is not a place for murderers. Likewise, Hashimi sir, he's being entertained. When all this is done, the Kerkuk is forgotten. Why is the Hashimi being entertained? Sunni. Why is Maliki broken up with him? It's a flame. What do we care? But don't forget Kerkuk. Some of our Turkishmen in Kerkuk are Alevi, some are Sunni. If we don't have secular approaches, we will betray Kerkok, and our brothers and sisters of Kerkuk. We need to get away from sectarian approaches that will turn them against each other, because Kerkok is our national cause, a cause we cannot give up, and no one can make us forget Kerkuk. He cannot plant seeds of hypocrisy among our Kerkuk people. Whether it's Flame or Sunni, they're all our brothers. Let's be extremely careful in that regard. Our dear friends, in the last few days, there is a saying from a fellow union that has not even given birth to a mountain mouse. What's the matter? Half-and-a-half suggestions. Sir, the state of the Republic of Turkey had just said, "Mr. Elitaş has become rich, he has improved like this, he has received degrees like this, but after a lot of promises to public workers, to those who make a living with their hard work, our Minister has also come out in Tandoğan. I understand what you want." He said, understood, offered 3+3, then they granted 3.5+3.5, and then 3.5+4 for 2013, God bless 3+3. What's interest? How much did the gas increase? How much did the power go up? Where's the benefit? I want you to know that you've made it very difficult for your fellow union. Because the AKP is in power, sir, the number of members of the supporting union has been increased by pressure, you've put your own aide union in trouble. God protects those who cooperate with you from your evil deeds. Sir, we're here, we're here, we've approved an uncontacted bill, 4+4+4. The first six articles have been discussed according to the Commission, and the last 21 articles have been sent to the Parliament and then to the relevant authorities, as though they had been discussed. Is there such a bad precedent, friends? So let's not discuss any laws on the commission, let's download them directly, with violence, with dictatorial approaches to the General Assembly, send them to approval. The stumbling of 4+4 is coming up every day, they're making a statement, Mr. Secretary. He says I don't know, why does he know? It's not appropriate for the Ministry of National Education to even take a national holiday out of the hands of the Ministry of Education once. Every day is something new. No, five-year-olds are like this, six-year-olds like this, sixty-six months like this, seventy-two months like this, these are going to turn into this school, these are going to turn into this school. There's no such thing as zigzag, there's no such discrepancy. Our detainees are still inside. Mr. Speaker couldn't put all the ends of the bundle together. I don't see how the man who can't put all the ends of the bundle together can be president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I remind him.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit04spe0166par0038	How many times did you go to Cemil Bey so he wouldn't take you from the governor's office?
tbmm-2012-05-23sit04spe0163par0039	Mr. Special, come talk to me here! The President of the Grand National Assembly of the Republic of Turkey is number 2 of the state. It's in Lu Protocol.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit04spe0166par0040	You're insulting him now!
tbmm-2012-05-23sit04spe0167par0041	Dear Private, please...
tbmm-2012-05-23sit04spe0163par0042	Give him his place in protocol, or he'll leave. Can't find a trial for lighthouse corruption. The prosecutors have been courted, and the poor, and the orphans have been wronged, and there is no court for them. Allah will call to account those who take care of the poor and the orphans. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit04spe0168par0047	Thank you. Kemalettin Yilmaz, MP of Afyonkarahisar, has asked for a speech on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit04spe0169par0051	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group about the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Iran, Esendere and Sero Black Border Doors, to ratify the Agreement for Joint Use. I hereby salute your high council. When this agreement came to the agenda, which we had a warm relationship with Iran a few months ago, our trade volume was prone to increase, but the lack of insight, failure of the AKP government in foreign policy came to our attention. Perhaps this border crossing will never be used as a partner, and our relations with Iran will continue to be even worse. The long-standing relations with the Turks and Iranians began with the acceptance of Islam by these two nations. During this period, the Turks flocked from Central Asia to the west and encountered Iranians, and the encounter affected both cultures very deeply. Almost every state established in Iran until the 20th century was ruled by a Turkish dynasty. At the same time, the Turkish language was deeply influenced by Iranian culture. There has been a lot of interaction between Turks and Iranians about art, science and government administration. The two nations learned more from each other. Finally, the Turkish-Iran border was established with the Kasri Smurf Agreement signed in 1639. Even today, our limit, which is valid, is still in the form of this agreement. Relationships between us and Iran must be developed, must be developed, but relations that have been heated by agreements and visits in recent years have been a victim of unwitting foreign policy that the AKP government has demonstrated with our neighbours. Unfortunately, our increasing trade volume has dropped. Iran began to look at our country differently, and even because of the missile shield built in Malatya-Kurecik, Israel's security, Iranians became enemies to our country. The so-called zero-problem policy, Syria, Russia, has turned Iranian missiles into our country, set their range according to our Malatya province, where the missile shield is. Dear lawmakers, the failure of AKP governments to provide domestic policy materials for zero problems continues to create serious problems, unfortunately, foreign policies. Every move imposed by the United States of America returns to our country as a new threat. Let's share the border gate, but we've just seen the state of border security in the incident in Şırnak-Uludere. Adeta smuggling was normalized and presented to the public as a natural event. Through Iran, Iraq, Syria, there is a shipment of very serious cigarettes, drugs, fuel and non-imaginative products, which enable the PKK to be financially supported. The government, unfortunately, condones these smuggling activities. The damage of these smuggling activities to the Turkish economy is around 150-200 billion dollars a year. Smuggling has reached incredible proportions. Terror also provides incredible possibilities, and a serious source is being passed on to terrorism from this smuggling. Although the number of vehicles in Turkey is rapidly increasing, the sale of formal fuel is unfortunately dropping. That means there's an incredible amount of fuel smuggling, valued lawmakers. According to sources, the sale of cigarettes has decreased by 14 per cent. However, this decrease is not due to those who quit smoking, but to the fact that illegal cigarettes dominate the market. Only one container of illegal cigarettes leaves about $1,200,000 in profits. We can count hundreds of illegal product pens, including salt, tea, sugar, dental supplies. Respected MPs, today the terrorist organization doesn't need money. Because they're getting incredible resources from smuggling. They even built their own customs doors, and they collect from traffickers from this side of the border and from the other side. This is a terrible blow to the Turkish economy, its industry, its agriculture. There's an unfair competition against honest employees. I'm afraid the customs department's functions have been wiped out. What are all those soldiers and police doing on the border? At the time of the death of 34 people, the police station was informed. It is called an incredible confession of guilt. There's no government in that area. Some networks, clans, ulterior leaders, some politicians are co-operating with the terrorist organization, and a martial law imposed by the PKK in the region as well. Turkey receives 2.5 million tonnes of illegal fuel annually. This amount is about 20 per cent of the total fuel consumed in the country, or one fifth of the total fuel consumed in the country. The monetary value of illegal fuel is around $6 billion. Thousands of tons of fuel are distributed to our country every day on mule ridges, hidden compartments, trucks and trucks. Each year, 25,000 tonnes of cigarettes produced in factories in Iraq and Iran are smuggled into Turkish markets. Because of this smuggling, our country's tax loss is about $2.5 billion a year, and its other economic losses are not included. A gap in the country's tobacco plant is left to smuggled cigarettes. The annual amount of contraband is around 500,000 tonnes, even on a daily tour of Iran and Iraq for smuggling. This proportion corresponds to about one fifth of the annual consumption in Turkey. The cost of smuggling sugar to the economy is around 750 million dollars. While our beet farmer has been trying to produce with the sweat of his forehead, the money that our citizens must earn for the past ten years, unfortunately, is a hit on smugglers. This popularly consumed tea in our eastern and Southeast Anatolia region, especially the biggest damage to the manufacturer, is about 60,000 tonnes of illegal access to Turkey. This significant amount is entering our country from Iran and Syria. The cost to the economy is around 75 million dollars. In our country, the teamaker's troubles are in the middle of it, and the work of our teamaker is being squandered, allowing him to give his product to extortion auctioneers, opportunists, and traffickers in this sector. Dear lawmakers, another product smuggled into our country is alcoholic beverages. Around 100,000 bottles per year are estimated to be smuggled into the dorm by various means. In particular, the cost of illegal beverages offered in tourist hotels is around $300 million per year to the economy. This should be assessed both in terms of health and economic loss. Many of our citizens and tourist guests are losing their lives, and there are examples of them in the past. Therefore, tourism, one of our country's largest sources of income, is losing blood, and our country's image of tourism is sadly shaken. Turkey is smuggled in every year through Iran, Iraq and Syria, and around 500,000 living animals, mostly minors. While the annual economic damage of the illegal animal is around 750 million dollars, consider another smuggled entry product. Fugitive meat is entering our country, especially through Iran. Unfortunately, 40 percent of the meat consumed in Istanbul is off the record. This number corresponds to one third of the meat consumed throughout Turkey. The annual value of escaped meat is around $5 billion. The loss here is one of our country's unfortunate bleeding wounds. Our citizens, who are already at the point of end with heavy costs, entry prices and failed agricultural and animalism policies, are suffering serious damage because of the illegal animal, the runaway meat. We control meat prices. The AKP government, which condemns our country to import meat, imported milk powder, imported sacrifice, feeds its supporters in this way. Animal trafficking has also been tolerated, and some groups and terrorist organizations have been given serious routs. The annual economic value of banning, bananas, melons, watermelons, pineapples, and mango smuggling is around $400 million - the main kiwi, bananas, melons, which have been smuggled from border gates to our country and scattered all over the country. In our country, melons continue to stay in the fields, not even to cover the cost of labor, while unfortunately, illegal vegetables from abroad continue to enter fruit. Besides all these cans and all kinds of cans, meat products such as salami, sausages; food supplements such as sauce, mayonnaise, ketchup; milk powder, food, cake flour, ready soup, pepper powder, and especially rice and bacterium products coming through Middle Eastern countries. The total economic value of these is unfortunately estimated to be around 1.5 billion dollars a year. These numbers are the figures of an unregistered NGO. There has also been a significant increase in the amount of agricultural fighting drugs smuggled through Iran in recent years. Drug trafficking is another dimension, which is the size and value of drug trafficking, unfortunately, heartbreaking, unknown. So much so that drug trafficking can be made public because there's no border security, and the terrorist organization's biggest source of funding is unfortunately drug trafficking. These figures and events reveal that there is no effective control at border lengths and doors. However, when we look at the economic dimension of the event, the problem appears to be more complex. As the smuggling sector becomes such a profitable sector, as observed in the case of illegal alcohol, prices on the domestic market have been overextended due to high taxes and, as observed in the meat situation, increasing prices from time to time because of the lack of production level. Thousands of pencil products are smuggled into our country that we can't count and are not sure what their economic loss is. In our country, when the tradesman is suffering, when the farmer is suffering, when the manufacturer is suffering, we are losing our resources to Iran, Syria, Iraq, and worse, to the PKK terror organization. If the good lawmakers were prevented from smuggling, if the labor of our country's people was not wasted, if the terrorist organization of the PKK lost its funds, which had been bleeding in our country for years, if it had disappeared, would it have been buried in the darkness of history? Although this smuggling has prevented losses, even if our farmer's debt of around 20 to 25 billion dollars has been wiped out, even though these illegal losses have been prevented, even if our tradesman's debts have been completely repaid, would it not be better if we could get a ridiculous 22% raise, not raises, but a minimum wage raise, if we could get a $20 raise a day? Wouldn't it be a good idea to give our officer the raise he's been waiting for for for six months, not 3.5%, but a human increase? Wouldn't it be better if these fugitives were a job for our young people who've lost their jobs? We're talking about the economics, the farmer, the pensioner, the minimum wage, when they're dying, there's nothing else that comes to mind. Come, before these agreements, before common use, let's take effective measures on our border lengths, prevent trafficking, cut off PKK resources. Let's organize our relations with our neighbouring countries like neighbors, not on the axis of US policies, European Union policies. Let's give up imperialist foreign policy. Let us mature commercial and human relations with our neighbors and work for the security and economic well-being of our country. And lately, we've been getting complaints from our tradesmen, our exporters. These people who do business with Iran can't find a bank to take their money from. In each transaction, there are serious commissions, expenses. Although they have money, papers, customs statements, the banks are unfortunately being returned, they are being sent. Trade with Iran has become almost torture, respected lawmakers. Our trade in the embargo of the United States is being blocked, our country is being prevented from making money, and both our tradesman and our government are experiencing serious loss of income. It is also important that this matter be resolved immediately and that our banking transactions with Iran be put in order. Again, it has been reported recently that nearly a ton of gold has been released from our country to Iran through Dubai. That's a very serious number. If it's real commerce, I'm really curious if there's any follow-up on it. Despite all this negativity, we wish that the two countries would benefit from the increase in trade volume, and that this agreement would be a blessing for our country, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2012-05-23sit04spe0170par0079	[[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Thank you. Any other requests? No. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, due to the completion of our working time, it is now 14 p.m. on Thursday (May 24th 2012) to discuss the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs from the Commissions in order of the decision. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
