tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 99th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Adıyaman MP Mohammed Murtaza Eğyük, who wants to talk about violence against health workers. Here you go, Mr. Catcher.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, good lawmakers do nothing but sing songs that will make us happy. They don't eat what people grow in their gardens, they don't go into cornfields. All they do is sing to us with all their hearts. Dear friends, physicians, like nightingales, say words that will ease your pain and make you happy with the tongue of medicine. They do their jobs under difficult circumstances. They fight on the fronts, but not to kill a man, but to heal the pain with the knowledge they carry, and the healing. Sometimes in the midst of death, they are sometimes in the midst of epidemics. Doctors with the hand of healing are untouchable. You share your privacy with no one, you ask for their help in your most difficult moments. The people of this country keep the physician in a very special place, in a deep bond of friendship, as a way of healing. We must not allow this deep friendship to be destroyed by the spirits of modern culture, which are shaped, conflicting, and selfish. Dear friends, people's health rights, their right to live, are sacred from everything. Our brother, Dr. Ersin Arslan, who consumed his childhood and youth in order to provide this service to the people, was brutally murdered by an incident. I condemn this incident with hatred, to God's mercy on our brother who was killed in his office, to his father uncle Ramadan, to his mother's aunt Fatma, to his wife, Dr. Sibel Hanim, to his teachers, to his colleagues, to his fellow students, to the Minister of the Children's Medicine, Recep Akdağ, and to the entire health community. On the other hand, the fact that an MP beat up Dr. Oğuz Eroglu, who served at the Van Regional Hospital, is an unspeakable tragedy. In the wake of the incident, an apology should be made, but I will again beat you recklessly. The expression of your approach is an unexplainable attitude of the MP's mind. This MP must apologize to health workers twice, not once. The issue should not be ignored by an internal investigation into a formal party that provides a visual to reduce the public's response. We can't help but ask: Did the lawmakers who beat up the doctor yesterday take the power of attorney to beat up the people who serve the people? We have to ask again, who's next? Dear friends, changes in our country's revolution with the Health Transformation Programme have facilitated access to health care, which has significantly increased the workload of health workers. For many years, vocational education planning -- regardless of needs -- has resulted in a lack of health care staff, and the number of employees with a growing intensive workload has increased. Therefore, policies on one side should be taken, but also on the other, to reduce the workload must be accelerated. As a whole, working conditions for health care should be developed to be safe and peaceful for health care providers as well as for those who receive it. The measures, such as placement of security devices in hospitals, widespread white code application, boosting camera systems for 24 hours, establishing employee rights and security units, are crucial. In the face of the phenomenon of public violence and violence against developing health workers, politicians, administrators, NGOs and leaders of opinion must demonstrate their reaction in a high language. The deep friendship between physician-patients must be maintained, the honor of medicine and the social reputation. Let's say again, medicine with the hand of healing is untouchable. As I end my words, I would like to thank a hospital in Gaziantep on behalf of the health department, which has made the memory of our brother Dr. Ersin Arslan forever. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0003par0018	Thank you, Mr. Güyük. Health Minister Recep Akdağ will respond to the non-responsive speech. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0004par0022	Honourable President, distinguished members of our High Council, I salute you all. Today, we are in our Parliament on a day when a very important matter, health, and violence, should not actually be intertwined by these two words. On this occasion, I would like to enter into my thoughts on the matter, as well as the speech of our Adıyaman MP Murtaza Bey. As I explained, today we will continue to discuss this matter together. My dear friends, how do we protect our health workers in the strongest way against violence? This, in fact, is a matter of real hard work and hard work, all of us together. We've actually been focusing on that lately. We also found that the problem is a universal problem. The level of violence in health care in the world and in our country is high compared to other businesses. We're aware of the situation, although there are no extensive investigations in our country yet. Studies on the world that show the state of the violence inflicted by health workers are not sufficient. I mean, there's not enough work in Turkey, but it's hard to say there's enough work in the world. Most of the research related to the subject is numbered, its methods are different, and they are far from representing all health workers. The research method of two of them is very powerful. One is a study by the International Labour Organization and the World Health Organization using standard methodology, one is a study in seven countries; the other is a study by the British Ministry of Health, a work by the central health department. The study by the World Health Organization in seven countries to measure the frequency has produced very interesting results. This is a report from Australia, Brazil, South Africa, Bulgaria, Portugal, Thailand, Lebanon. Here, the frequency of violence ranges between 47 per cent and 76 per cent; the rate of violence that the health worker has experienced in the past year has been investigated, and this frequency is found between 47 per cent and 76 per cent. Turkey also has some studies, but it is impossible to obtain clear data from these studies. These are studies that don't represent all health workers, which we don't see enough of as methodology; different methods are used, it's hard to compare, so data isn't very guiding to us. However, whatever the results of the investigation...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0005par0028	Tell me, Mr. Secretary, who did or did this research?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0004par0029	...respectable lawmakers, violence, a situation we can never agree on when it comes to health care. We can't or can't accept the violence of a single medical worker. However, as I put it, the data and observations of both the world and our country show that this universal problem is severely encountered by health workers. There's a study in the United States of America...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0005par0031	Tell me who made the one in Turkey, sir, the one in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0004par0032	He says that working at a health institution poses 16 times the risk of being exposed to violence. At this stage, dear MPs, we really need the common mind of our great House, we need its support. We also need the sincere support of the judiciary, the press, the trade organisations, along with our Assembly, and, of course, we need the support of our opposition. The problem is such an ancient problem, and, in fact, the work done in England in particular, the measures taken in England, unfortunately, were not enough to reduce violence. But we believe that when we work together on a certain issue in Turkey, like smoking, when we develop social sensitivity together, we as a country can travel faster in these issues than other countries. I, to be honest, trust our country's potential in this matter as well. Of course, the issue should never be sacrificed to the infertility of political polemics. As I put it, we're dealing with a universal and important problem that's been going on since the past. We need to focus on solving this problem. Dear MPs, you know I'm a pediatrician. In 1978, I went to medical school. I started medical school at Erzurum. About thirty-three years have passed since I was a student in 1978. I'm a part of the health community that's worked hard for the health of our people for thirty-three years, and I'm proud of it. From the beginning, I, like many physicians, am a physician who weeps for his patients. The legislature and the ministry don't change that. You can't retire once you've been involved in this profession; you can't serve a person until you're dead; wherever there's a person's wound, wherever there's a person's pain, wherever there's a person's problem, you have to take care of him. You have to care both physically and spiritually. Moreover, you often have to hide the tears that you shed or shed for your patients from those patients and from those near you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we, as a family of health, are all a dedicated family. After the testimony of my brother, I visited his family, his wife, his co-workers, and his patients.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0006par0036	You're the one who declares doctors thieves every day.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0004par0037	We hugged each other and shared our pain. Like the entire medical family, I know exactly what that pain means. Dr. Ersin Arslan was a young boy. He was a brother who burned with the love of service to man. Indeed, at the age of 30, he was a friend who intervened in lung cancer patients that many physicians or organizations could not reach out to, and dedicated himself to them. I bow before his memory in the presence of our great House. We've all been hurt by the martyred brother of an angry criminal. And I know that the precious MPs of our great House have been burned. Once again, I pray for his mercy from Gabriel, his grieving family, his mother, his father, his brothers, his wife, his patience; and my condolences to all our health workers, and to our family. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the knife towards that shining man is a knife to me, as it is to all medics. I say this to all my brothers and sisters from the seat of the High Assembly, and to all the health workers, once under the roof of the High Assembly: Who will strike a healthcare officer in the face of the Minister of Health of the Republic of Turkey? I consider every insult they've been made to me. I consider every violent act that has been done to them to me. Just as we were suffering this time, a very bad news came from Van, and a very heavy news came. A member of parliament reached out to an EMT in this injured city, a doctor who worked hard in our Van Regional Hospital, who served a great deal during the earthquake and after the earthquake. And that hurt us deeply. My dear friends, I spoke to my doctor brother, my brother, the doctor who was an emergency physician, on the phone right after the incident, and I spoke to his wife on the phone. I've interviewed the hospital's Deputy Chief of Medicine, and I've called the governor of the county. I would like to share with you a matter that was very disturbing to me: This doctor brother was upset about the incident, and his wife was upset. Our chief of hospital was deeply injured because he had also been cursed and threatened. But I've also examined another thing: This friend of ours was still afraid of a congressman, even though it had happened. Such an attitude was my attitude. I asked the governor of the province, the MP gave our friend and his wife protection, and they gave protection to the hospital's Deputy Chief of Medicine. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to make a statement...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0007par0044	The doctor or the congressman?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0004par0045	The doctor, his wife, and the hospital's Deputy Chief of Medicine were given protection.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0008par0046	You said you were a member of the state.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0004par0047	I'm sorry, I'm wrong, I'm correcting the emergency medical examiner who had to give our friend, his wife, our radiologist friend, and the hospital's Deputy Chief of Medicine state protection. Against a congressman, the state has to protect the governor of the state, his employee, his doctor. This is a very painful thing, my dear friends.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0008par0048	Let's remove the immunity, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0009par0049	Look what Turkey has become, Minister!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0004par0050	We'll see what the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has to say about this tomorrow. The prosecution is preparing a statement, but I think the Party of Peace and Democracy will intervene first, and I hope, because they have an attempt on this issue, but this initiative -- the attempt of the Peace and Democracy Party to investigate or investigate this event, which has left a deep stake in the public conscience -- must be quickly concluded, and I personally say, the party managers themselves will give you the appreciation -- in my opinion, the result of such a verb should be discharged from the party of this person, the MP's party. I wanted to express this anxiety before you in the presence of the High Assembly. I knew this friend of mine when I was in Van. I'm talking about a proud son of a country who, when I left, served our Van brothers with great sacrifices, lying in his own vehicle, just after that earthquake. They had a small child, and they had sent their children home to their families, husband and wife, members of the health army that served our citizens in Van▪ in those most difficult days, and they were still serving them, but unfortunately, we came across such a bad deed. Mr. President, I would like to state, as a physician, that our citizen, as for the entire health community, has a place above my head. I know that the Turkish nation appreciates the services provided in health care today, that it is largely satisfied with the health care family, physicians who provide these services, and that's what our research says. We also know that because we often meet with a citizen's blessing. Of course, there are those who aren't satisfied with the services, there are those who aren't, but that doesn't change the common decision for the whole picture. Even so, it is a fact that from time to time, individuals who do not know themselves against medical technicians, nurses, medical technicians, doctors, and transgressors, sometimes engage in verbal, actual attacks. Those who are in this field must know that our physicians, our health workers, are not unclaimed. A lack of self-awareness so advanced as to inflict violence on a health worker must be punished accordingly. Our law enforcement forces must show the necessary sensitivity in this matter. A public institution has to be reported by law and reported to the prosecutor, whether or not it is a verbal or actual attack on a healthcare officer in its charge, the valued MPs, whether it is a personal complaint or not. Both our safety and our judgment must approach an attack on the medic with great precision, and do just as it is necessary. The attitude of the police and the judiciary must be swift and decisive in bringing down the violent spirit. As all health families, we expect this from the authorities, and I, as the country's Minister of Health, express it in your presence to the esteemed MPs of our Parliament and to the Turkish nation, and I will personally follow it. There's also a significant responsibility for our press here, dear MPs. No health worker or health organization should be executed without a trial. I'm afraid we get that a lot. Our press and public opinion know that we are carefully reviewing every case that requires review, as a matter of fact, we are investigating. Preliminary judgment without completion of an investigation -- to reflect it on headlines, comments -- our valuable press appreciates that it's not both right and it's very hurtful. There's an important task in the process for our professional organisations, valued lawmakers. In order to draw attention to problems, I'd like to say at the very beginning of my remarks that I welcome action, but in action, public health care must never be violated. With all of us, especially his opposition to power, it's becoming really important for us politicians to use the language of love and understanding as much as possible instead of the language of toughness, conflict. From here, I address all the Turkish nation, my dear nation, know that health workers are working under a great deal of work. Although our number of doctors and nurses has increased over the years, our number of students has been very inadequate.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0010par0057	Then give it to the paramedics.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0004par0058	For years, valued lawmakers have resisted increasing number of health workers, nurses and doctors in Turkey. Although the number of students has increased in recent years, our number of doctors and nurses will be inadequate for a longer period of time. We're under heavy labor. Despite the weight of our work, we try to do well in the ministry with the understanding that transformation in health is worthy of man. I expect my fellow citizens to have understanding, love, respect, and empathy for the medics.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0010par0059	You should have the same understanding.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0004par0060	The health family is only worthy of appreciation for its zeal, sincerity, and sacrifice. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, again, I would like to say that the attacks of self-involved, magnanimous, diseased souls, sociopaths, medics, should never be perceived as the response of our citizen to the medics. The citizens of this country are people who appreciate medics, and from now on, we believe our people will continue to appreciate medics. With God's blessing, we will provide better services in the coming years. In the meantime, we're all going to have to fight back with the self-involved violent extremists. I would like to present to our citizens now that I expect support and understanding of the measures I will be explaining during the upcoming period of negotiations. I salute our High Council.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0011par0064	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0012par0065	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0011par0066	Mr. Shandır, you have a request.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0012par0067	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0011par0068	Wait a minute... Mr. Shandir had a request for words, he entered.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0013par0071	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear friends, as the National Movement Party Group, we also condemn the attacks against health workers, no matter what the cause. We wish our brother, the doctor who lost his life, to have patience with our other friend. But, Mr. Secretary, this isn't the first time, it's not the only time. These are the consequences of not getting enough and timely measures to take on this matter. Of course, it's unacceptable, of course, as a Minister of Health, your sadness, your reaction on this matter is admirable, but the duty of a statesman is to predict the future, the possibility. A man has lost his life for a very pointless reason, our sadness is great, but we want you to know that at the point of taking measures that need to be taken, we will fully support your offer. At this point, as the National Movement Party, we've submitted a motion to investigate this issue, demanding that it be brought up, unfortunately rejected by the ruling party group's proposals and votes. But I also care that today, as a necessity, a commission like this has come to the point. Again, as the state of this matter, I invite you, as the government, to take the necessary measures. Again, I wish our brother, the doctor who lost his life, a blessing from the National Party of Action.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0014par0074	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0015par0077	Mr. President, thank you. We're with the medics and physicians to the end, especially in the face of such attacks on the health system. We didn't approve of any of the attacks against them, and our party started an investigation. Of course, his decision will be made. But I would like to ask Mr. Secretary, it's best to address these issues objectively. Look, in 2009, an AK PARTY MP had a much more dire event -- punching the doctor, et cetera, et cetera -- that was a much more dire reaction to the press. I wonder, did the Minister give you protection? What did the Minister do about the doctors? What did the party decide? What did the party do? Again, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary that the physicians are constantly exposed to gas bombs in the Red Moon Square of health workers. It's a government policy. Isn't that sort of official magenta, official violence? Do you plan to take precautions in the face of this violence?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0016par0082	Hold on a second, I'm turning on the mic, if you'd like to continue. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0015par0084	Thank you. Mr. President, today, all the party groups, the research proposals that we've put together, we're all meeting in common; we're looking for a solution here, we want to solve the problem. When we're talking about this solution, I don't think it's right for the Minister to bring something up in particular and approach it this way. As we explained that we did not find it right, we also want to say that an incident occurred on the same day in İzmir. What did you do in the wake of the attack on a private hospital in İzmir? Did you call his doctor who was attacked? Did you talk to the doctors at that hospital? Have you visited the Medical Office, Minister? Did you feel the need to visit health workers' unions? Look, these events, similar events, they happen a lot.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0016par0086	Mr. Kaplan, please finish your words. I'll see you in a bit. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0015par0088	I'm picking it up. Here, come, let's bring a radical solution to the problem through the system. And let's not get into abuse on the basis of the radical solution, or we'll get a ton of documents, and you'll be asked to answer why you're silent about your party's 2009 event. Let's not get into this, it's no use. Let's solve the problem.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0016par0090	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0015par0091	Are we with the doctors or not? We're gonna be there for you, we're gonna be there for the paramedics, and we're gonna be there for every attack, no matter where it comes from. We call it the Peace and Democracy Party.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0016par0092	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Gebze and Kobeli MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan, who asked for a comment on his problems.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0017par0095	Mr. President, I just wanted a quick word.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0016par0096	I'm not making any promises off the agenda, Congressman. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0018par0101	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation and all the arrested MPs. I have made a promise to share the problems of the Gebze region with you. Before I begin my speech, Dr. Ersin Aslan, my colleague, is at peace with the health community. And I'd like to invite the Minister to be with the health workers from now on. I refer to the region of Gebze as the region of Çayırova, Darica, Gebze, and Dilova, which is west of the province of Kopeeli. The priority of our regional problems is to be a province. About 700,000 people already deserve to be a province of RD, such as TÜBITAK, TÜSSIDE, where there are nine organised industrial areas, which contribute to the Turkish economy by about 8 per cent alone. While you've been waiting to be a province with all institutions and people for 20 years, while you've been working on this subject, you've believed that most of our problems are beyond a province, and in 2008, you've divided this region into four districts, which you're having trouble explaining and you don't know. I'm asking you, what's changed at the point where you divide it four ways? The problems are always the same. Divided four ways, the problems didn't go away; the opposite became difficult at the point of the solution. In any case, it has been of no use to anyone to divide these four counties as a district on paper, except chaos. This region, socially, culturally, and economically, has not been integrated until now. The differences and negligence in social and cultural areas are obvious and true in education, health, and safety measures compared to that area in a suburb of Istanbul. Our second essential need in the region and our problem is college. In order to adopt common urban culture to people of different cultures and lifestyles from Anatolia who are struggling to live in this region, we are indispensable to a university in harmony with its people and their industry, which is able to think freely, who love their country, who respect human rights. The 11 universities of applied sciences, 26 universities of applied sciences, 65,000 students and the most important universities of Turkey are unfortunately not located in the area of a faculty or a vocational school. It's also thought-provoking. On top of that, I don't know for what reason Gebze University of applied sciences, which has been operating in Gebze since 2001, moved to Hereke, at the beginning of this school year, during your administration. Therefore, I have not received an answer to the Ministry of National Education, even though I submitted a question motion to our Minister of National Education on 10/10/2011. But I'm hopeful, with the region's ruling and opposition, I'm glad that lawmakers are aware that there is a need for the university in this region. Now, you have no more grounds, and since our military barracks in the area of Gebze and Darica are moving at the end of this year, I hope you will allocate 700 and 900 acres of land to the university and to the green area without handing it over to the TOKI. The gebze industrial region is rapidly evolving and developing warped. There used to be a movement of manpower from Gebze to Istanbul, and now it's the opposite. I have a suggestion: We think that the continuing construction of the subway between Haydarpaşa and Kaynarca will be a solution to a very serious problem, both at the point of resolving the intensity of E-5 and TEM traffic, as well as at the point of Gebze providing social and cultural communication.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0019par0108	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0018par0109	I give my thanks and respect to the High Council again for listening to me.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0019par0111	The third unscheduled statement belongs to Hatay MP Şeyk Uçük, who wants to talk about milk producers' problems. Here you go, Mr. Ugly.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0020par0115	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I come to express the problems of the milk producers, and I salute you all. I'm here today on the occasion of a visit from our citizens who produce milk in Amassian Suluova to Mr. Group Vice President Mehmet Shandır Bey. So there's a problem. Dear MPs, of course, in every part of our country -- I'm a village boy, I'm from the village of Keli of the Amik Plain of Hatay -- in my village, my plains, my mountains -- our citizens take their cow, feed it, and our mothers, sisters try to live off it. So in my village, for example, there was a Behiye sister, whose late husband, the cow, the milk, I gave her money. Thank God we're getting along. He goes every week, buys what we need from the market, and makes important contributions to our home, but this was during the 57th Government, I remind him. Now, I don't think that Behiye Sister can afford cows, let alone make a living of her two cows. That's the way it is. Now, our government has made a tender to cure the problems of our milk makers, as well as to the problems of our milk makers. The school has made a tender for our children to drink milk, and the price of milk has dropped, while the price of milk is expected to increase, and the producer's problems will be solved. So, what are our companies, our big industrialists, who buy milk from the milkman, 660, 689, 698, the highest number, worth 200 milligrams of this milk to our children, the government? 2,200, 2,850, 2.750 cents an average liter. Now, are these tenders made to make the industrialists rich, or are they made to cure the milk producer's problems? On the other hand, when you produce 20 kilograms of milk from a cow that costs between 18 and 20 lira, it's like $12 million, $13 million. What do you do with this cow? This cow is cut. What happens when this cow gets cut? Meat prices go up. The milk producers are in a lot of trouble. The measures that are brought in are no cure for the problems of the milk producers. It is absolutely impossible to express that the support given to the milkmaker is sufficient in an environment where a heifer grows, fertilizes, gives milk for two years. So the silica, the hay, the dandruff, given the cost of these, the milk producers can't get enough support and cut off their animals. What do the milk industry buy? In total, 90 million milk, 70 million milk powders. We're not industrial enemies, but you have to make the big difference between the support given to the manufacturer and the industry, and then you have to take the necessary steps to become the nation's government. Dear members of power and government officials will have to shape this up as soon as possible. A meeting was held in January, the Milk Council made a decision, and the price of milk was said to be 80 cents by June, and such a principle was decided. Here, look at the market. How much is the milk? With this tender, the price of milk is expected to rise -- for some reason -- down to 60 to 70 cents. I mean, what's a bid for? What does the government do? In order to get the cheapest in a bid, he'll open a tender to buy whatever property he owns, including milk, for the cheapest, or he'll get it without bidding on expensive prices. Well, does that make any sense how he's going to make the cheapest product he's ever bought expensive in the market? No. At the end of my speech, I offer all of you with respect and love in the hope that the problems of our milk makers will be resolved immediately. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0021par0125	Thank you, Mr. Ugly. On behalf of the government, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting Mehmet Mehdi Eker will respond to non-responsive speech. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, members of the High Council, I salute you all. There have been significant increases in both dairy production and milk production of both animal heads and Turkey's total milk production in Turkey, with animal policy in recent years. Turkey's milk production has increased by 62 per cent in total over the past eight years, so it has increased from 8.4 million tonnes to 13.6 million tonnes. The animal presence hasn't really changed much, it's changed a little bit, but there's been a significant increase in milk efficiency. The average milk yield for each animal was 1,700 litres in 2002, which is now 2,900-3, with an increase in 70 per cent. Milk yield per animal per liter. And there's actually a parallel increase in consumption. In 2002, at 122 kilograms per person, milk consumption in Turkey reached 184 kilograms in 2010. According to TÜİK data, 184 kilograms of milk consumption is well above the world average, which, according to FAO data, weighs 101 kilograms. In Turkey, of course, 13 million tonnes of milk produced -- 13.6 million tonnes of milk -- are produced in businesses, outside the industry, both in business and in those areas, but about 6,750,000 tonnes are processed in industry, in industry, in industry. It's, of course, milk and dairy. Of course, there is an increase in milk production at certain times of the year, given the nature of animalism and climate-related nature, and there is also a decline in production at certain times of the year, because after birth, milk production grows slowly and slowly, to the top of the third month, and when it reaches the tenth month, it is already dry. So there's a curve in that, in that curve, which corresponds to winter months and spring in Turkey. Now, of course, there used to be a decline in prices at this time in the spring of the year, and that's when the industrialist found enough milk in these months, and this time, when the milk supply was low in the fall, he met the difference with milk powder imported from the outside. We've come up with a solution for the manufacturer and for the market in Turkey, for the industry. One of those solutions is that we started an app in Turkey to support a dairy powder in 2009. In 2009, we started this app to support about 5,000 tons of milk powder so that the industrialist could supply the milk powder he needed for other months of the year to process the milk inside. In 2010, we brought about 11,000 tons of milk powder support, and in 2011, we said: let's not let the industrialist come a gram of milk powder from outside, import it, support it from inside, let's get fresh milk from the manufacturer inside, let's keep it here, let's keep it as milk powder, let's buy industrial dust from other months of the year, let's do whatever it takes. So this became an important support pen for both the manufacturer and the manufacturer, and in 2011 alone we had a process and even export opportunity that would correspond to about 30,000 tons of milk powder, some of which was exported, some of which was used by industrialists in Turkey, and 31 million lira was paid for just about that. This practice continues. Of course, it's not just about this, it's about the cost fluctuations, it's about the protection of the milk powder, it's just one of them, and it's something that we didn't have in 2009, we started in 2010, 2011, and it's going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Secondly, it's about these extremely important milk producers: we support raw milk. Dear friends, in 2011, we paid by six cents per liter in the first three months, in the second and third trimesters, at six cents per cent per liter, and in 2011, we paid a $421 million milk supply to the milk manufacturer. Here in 77 provinces, producers in 712 districts, a total of 16,334 villages, millions of producers took advantage of it, and 421 million lira in raw milk was paid in 2011. That's one of our apps. Another application is the school milk program mentioned earlier. Dear friends, regarding school milk, the kindergarten and elementary school -- one, two, three, four, five classes in total -- at 32,574 schools, to about 7,200,000 students daily, five days a week -- in this year, the tender was made, of course, last week, April 17th. Of course, it's an open bid. Before a tender was made, there were no bids for some parts of Turkey, so the tender was cancelled, and the zones were merged, paired, and, for example, with the Central Anatolian Region, the Marmara Black Sea, three separate groups were formed, mapping it with the Marmara-Karadeniz, the Inner Anatolia-Southeast Anatolia, the Ege-East Anatolia and the Mediterranean. Around here, as of May 2nd, our students will also start delivering milk; 7 million, 200,000, each day, five days a week. Now, of course, this is done with a bid, and the goal is more than one here. Of course, our primary goal is to help our children eat healthy food -- which, as you know, is a very valuable food -- to be given the habit of drinking milk, to help our children eat healthy food, that's one goal. Second: Of course, increasing the consumption of milk in the market is this opportunity to get fresh milk out of the market, which is a second goal, of course, when the market withdraws, the supply of milk drops to a certain level, preventing those prices from going down against the manufacturer. And the third thing is, finally, I just gave you a number, and I said: 13.6 million tons of milk is being produced yearly in Turkey. But the part that was done in the industry was six million or so, and that went up to these levels during our administration, so it was, like, one third of that, and the milk in the industry was very small, and now it's gone up. And we encourage it to work in industry, in a sense, so that the food industry can develop, and with that food industry can develop agriculture-based industry, and it can increase agricultural production and animal production, and it can create jobs, and it can create economic growth and development. Of course, what our Congressman is saying is that the price of raw milk is going to be sold at this price, here, but 200 milliliters are going to be sold at this price, so that's what it comes to. On top of that, of course, there's no comparison, it's not done for: after all, there's packaging, there's industrial processing, so there's 200 milliliters of packaging, there's a cost of milk in the industry. But it's open to everyone, and our goal, of course, is that the manufacturer in Turkey, the industrialist in Turkey, wins. There's not a single purpose here, not a single purpose. But the schools, and the companies who buy it, will deliver it to the schools, and let's say one day, if a school is delayed, two boxes of milk will be given the next day, so there will be no casualties. As a result, wherever it is found in Turkey, each student will receive equal amount of milk from the state, within the scope of this government's programme. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we, of course, support the activities of this animalism in Turkey in certain ways. So milk production is just part of our animalism policy and support for both raw milk and school milk and dairy. Now, I've told you before, I'd like to re-introducing that agriculture in Turkey used to be the stepchild of other sectors, and livestock was the stepchild of agriculture; it was the stepchild of the stepchild of the stepson. How do we say this? Where do we say this? From here on out, the government was supportive. If he paid 100 lira for agriculture, all agricultural benefits were 100 liras, and only 4 lira was divided into livestock, so 4 percent went to animalism. Now, with this kind of structure, is it possible for you to be able to maintain animalism, effectively sustain it? Of course not. We've corrected that mistake. How did we fix it? We have raised the share of livestock within those four percent to 27 per cent, 28 per cent. This year, in 2012, we now provide special support for meat cattle. To protect them, we also support the feeders in special ways, especially because of the bait problem, dairy cattle, breeding, such heiferry. In the DAP and GAP region, we encourage large businesses within the framework of the Action Plan, where we have supported the establishment of large businesses. For example, there have been 126 projects in the GAP provinces by the end of 2011, and 128 projects continue. In the DAP provinces again, 78 projects have been carried out in 16 cities, and 101 projects are under way. All of these projects are top-of-the-line businesses. So we support the establishment of medium and large businesses. Why? Because, with medium and large businesses, both jobs are created, and the scale economy is captured, and with that scale economy, a little bit more profitable is intended for higher businesses, which is possible for Turkey to be competitive in this sense. But other than that, this year, in 2012, the total amount of money we're going to pay the animal manufacturer for their animal activity is $2 billion, 160 million. Of total agricultural support of $7.6 billion, 2 billion 160 million goes to animalism, which is 27 to 28 percent, so a significant portion of our total support is earmarked for animal activity. As part of the support of rural development investments, we donate 50 per cent of the investment amount to $600,000, and we've completed nearly 80050 projects all over Turkey. We're building an animal factory that runs, packs, wraps, or in other words, 10 people, 15 people, instead of 20 people. We receive 50% of the $600,000 capital as a grant, and in this way, we have completed nearly eight hundred and fifty facilities, which are now active and functioning. Now, we have another animal-related project in 20 provinces plus twenty-two cities under the IPARD. If the investor is under forty-five percent, if he is over forty, we will grant 50 percent. What is it in 20-odd provinces? The goal is to invest more in this area in the IPARD Programme. All of this is actually the withdrawal and processing value of animal products from the market, including milk or milk, and in turn, into a high product. This is the only way to prevent the price of the product from dropping. And finally, I want to make one more point. Before, you know, these meat fish companies were privatized in the early 1990s, and most of the combinations were sold. When we came to power, there were five or six left. We removed them from privatisation in 2005, added new ones, and presented them to the service of the livestock industry. We've invested about 80 million dollars in them, and we've added new ones to them. Now, we're taking the structure of this Meat Fish, which can also intervene in dairy activities, so we're going to take more milk out of the market with a mechanism, and we're going to take it from the market to the product, and we're going to hide it, and we're going to deliver it to the market, and we're going to bring it to the market, and we're going to get the price stable, and we're going to get the price controlled, and we're going to build this mechanism for the manufacturer and the industry. The Meat Fish's charter needs to be changed, which is what we've sent to the High Planning Board. And we've got a law or two, and we'll bring it before the High Council, hopefully. We'll bring it to you, especially so that the price of milk that our Congressman has expressed can be stopped at certain times. But normally, we have our own support, bait support... Dear friends, now, for example, there's been talk of bait. Turkey needed 50 million tons, cattle and other animals needed food; green bait, brute bait. 25 million tonnes of this were produced in Turkey, 25 million were covered in hay, and the hay's nutritional value is zero, and everyone knows that. Now, we've taken over from this 25 million to 37.5 million tons of crude bait production. The planting area of the feed plants has increased nearly twice as much. So, how did this happen? It was supportive. We took their planting as a support for the planting of the bait, especially the simultaneous corn, and there has been a significant development here, including supporting it. With this, there is an increase in efficiency and production in Turkey. We deal with problems from time to time, and as a government, we keep close surveillance and control over the solution to those problems. We've made a decision recently, we're transferring money to 450 million lira feeders, for example, about the feeders, for example, in the account, for example, there wasn't. We pay $300 per animal support, which is valid from January 1, 2012. This is what school milk looks like again. Raw milk support, bait support, and so on, all of this is the result of a strategy, a strategy that's been calculated and implemented. Mr. President, I'd like to thank Mr. Şeşik Mr. Ugly, who has taken the liberty of speaking out of the agenda of animalism, for helping us express these things on this occasion. I pay my respects. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Nine of our congressmen have entered the system, they've asked for word, but in non-responsibility talks, we promise only non-responsive speakers. I can't promise, don't mind me.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0022par0154	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0021par0155	We're going on the agenda.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0022par0156	Mr. President, I'd like to say something on the agenda.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0021par0157	Please, Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0023par0158	According to 60...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0021par0159	No, it's about these things, please...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0024par0160	The doctor who was attacked in Van is from Tripoli, who was beaten by the MP, who is a citizen of Tripoli. As a member of parliament, we must be patient and tolerant as chosen people. If there's a lack of justice, he condemns this incident that our congressman has done, and I'd like to say to the doctor who died in Antwerp, God's mercy, and his condolences to his relatives, and to the health workers, and to our doctor from Tripoli.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0021par0161	Mr. Canalioglu, thank you, we'll be seeing you shortly.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0025par0162	Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief contribution for 60.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0021par0163	No, not during non-responsive conversations, Congressman, because it's off the agenda, the 59th article of the Civil Code is very clear and clear.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0025par0164	Mr. President, we're also surprised by your applications, one vice president promises, the other vice president doesn't promise. I mean, we're surprised at how we're gonna act.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0021par0165	I wouldn't know. That's my app, sir. I'm implementing the Civil Code. Thank you. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are seven motions to open a parliamentary investigation: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Working in a healthy and secure environment has many benefits, such as prolonging the employee's life span, increasing the workforce, and sustaining the work. Besides, working in a healthy and secure environment is not limited to sustaining the employee's health and improving the quality of life. At the same time, it allows for continued well - being and job efficiency to increase until the employee receives a service from his social life. Violent attacks on doctors and health workers who have increased in recent years have become a social problem. In 2009, 23 were exposed to violence in 2010, 27 in 2010, and 49 health workers in 2011. Unfortunately, the numbers show that violence has been increasing over the years. The reasons for this situation are too deep to be explained simply by the security dimension. Because of the health policies applied, there is no respect for the practice of doctors, there is not enough security for hospital employees, and most of the time, the only reason for the defects in the health system is to be expressed by the authorities. The sad events in our country are upsetting the health staff, demoralizing the workforce, and wearing down the medical staff. Medical personnel continue to be subjected to physical and verbal attacks by patients and patients. The latest example of this occurred at Diyarbakır Education and Research Hospital, Dr. Rodin Yellow Polet was in grave danger by being severely beaten by his relatives. The number of health workers who have been subjected to violence in Diyarbakir alone has risen to 5 ▪ in the past year. The quality and peaceful introduction of health care is an essential principle for the development of public health. The medical staff and especially the doctors' efforts to serve by acting on the idea that they will be attacked will prevent them from contributing enough to the development of public health. The failure of doctors to work efficiently will result in a serious loss not only in public health but also in the country's economy. In particular, in recent years, the violence of the patient's death or for arbitrary reasons has gone beyond the minor attacks committed by the relatives of patients against doctors. In previous years, there were health workers who were killed by their relatives, who were disabled, even if they didn't end up dead. Doctors and health workers often stress that they are threatened and unable to do their jobs. The fact that the reasons and solutions underlying the problems that doctors face in terms of safety require further investigation. Therefore, in order to determine the causes and solutions of the violence caused by doctors, the Constitution is 98. And TBMM Internality 104 and 105. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully submit the opening of Parliamentary Research. [[Tekirdağ]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Erzincan]] [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Antalya]] 16) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Fatma Nur Serter [[İstanbul]] 19) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[40s.]] 22) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[İstanbul]] [[Artvin]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate and prevent the attacks on doctors in hospitals in Şanlıurfa, the Constitution is 98. We respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. 30.01.2012 The recent increase in hospital raids and attacks on doctors in Şanlıurfa Education and Research Hospital have appeared to be on the agenda of Şanlıurfa and Turkey and the hospitals in Şanlıurfa where public order should be the most corrupt. According to recent reports, after attending an argument between a doctor and the chief physician at the Şanlıurfa Education and Research Hospital, several people with turbans and beards claimed to be close to the hospital. These people filled the hospital corridors and created a commotion there. In the same way, another group has filled the corridors, including the discussion. In hospitals that need to be the quietest and calmest, it is my hand and my sorrow, as well as an attack on the rights of public order and individuals. In other news, three health workers serving at the University of Harran Research and Application Hospital have been stabbed, beaten, verbally and physically attacked while on duty in the last month. The state is obliged to protect the health workers as well as each individual. The perception that doctors and health workers are responsible for health problems and setbacks comes back almost daily to health workers in clinics, emergency rooms, hospital corridors, violence. Violence is rapidly increasing in every aspect of our country's social process, while preventing violence is unfortunately not being taken. In parallel with the rise of social violence, health workers and physicians have recently faced multidimensional violence. Working in health care institutions has become more risky in the face of violence than in other businesses. Patients are as prone to violence as to other patients. The living example of this is verbal and physical violence performed by the physician, the nurse on duty, the laboratory, the security guard, and the relatives of all health workers who were in his way, as their next of kin passed away at Balıklıgöl State Hospital on 16,09.2011. In other words, violence has become consciously applied by the patients as a result of the carelessness of the responsible. Depending on violence, physicians and health workers have developed a sense of violence by a patient or a sick relative and have not been able to do their job properly. Doctors and health workers are insecure about their institutions as a result of their lack of sensitivity to the subject in the face of violence. For all these reasons, we respectfully present to doctors in Şanlıurfa's hospitals the need for parliamentary research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to investigate and prevent the measures needed to be taken immediately. [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] 5) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Erzincan]] [[Adana]] [[Hatay]] 9) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] 12) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Antalya]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] 17) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Antalya]] 19) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 20) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Tunceli]] 25) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Violence against health workers is described as "a verbal or behavioral threat, physical assault, or sexual assault, which poses a risk to a health worker from a patient, a relative or another individual." Violence against physicians and health workers in health care environments has increased in recent years. Hospitals are becoming dangerous environments for health workers, so health workers do not feel safe. Minister of Health, Mr. Recep Akdağ of Parliament, dated December 6, 2011, 29. He stated that they had issued regulations to control physical violence against health personnel and developed an early-warning system that allowed the early intervention of security officers called the "white code system." However, when scientific studies of violence against health workers are scanned, it is revealed that the problem cannot be resolved by physical measures, but requires more comprehensive solutions. He asked 12,296 physicians and other health workers to write the reasons for violence in short headlines and in order of importance, recorded at 01,02,2009 in the Istanbul Medical Chamber (ITO). In response, 10 topics are brought forward as the cause of violence: "1) Health Transformation Program, 2) The targeting of health workers by political power, 3) The level of public education is low, 4) Negative reports and comments on health workers in the media, 5) Lack of communication skills, 6) A growing manpower and a lack of physical capacity, 7) Excessive workload and lack of sense of work and weariness, 8) Public reasons and increased predisposition to violence 9) The lack of violent legal regulations and the lack of effective security measures 10) The working environment and the impropriety of architecture." The findings of the work conducted on health care institutions show that violence in health care is very high and is less recorded than in other workplaces. To measure violence, violence is often observed in health care institutions. According to this, health workers are exposed to verbal violence more than physical violence. According to health workers, nurses, second-time practitioners, then attending physicians and other staff were found to have been exposed to violence in the first place, according to their group. Women's workers are more often exposed to violence. The area where the violence took place is that first-time emergency services are second-time psychiatric clinics. Services and clinics are not safe environments. Emergency services are where emergency responses come from and where patients are at risk of life. That is why emergency workers, sick and sick relatives are stressed. Patient relatives may have a tendency to become aggressive for various reasons. The recent arrangement for the definition of an emergency patient brings the patient and physician face-to-face. In order to reduce the application to the emergency clinic, the emergency patient description has also been left to the physician. Such measures as effective security training, 24-hour security, security doors, cameras, metal detectors, checkpoints, protective windows, and panic alarms have been found to have failed to prevent physical violence alone. It is clear that such measures are also ineffective in preventing verbal violence that health workers are most frequently exposed to. The verbal attacks on health personnel, the injuries, the battery and the killing sentences are subject to general provisions. Clearly, the regulations that have been issued so far have been of no use alone, and violence is increasing. The measures to protect health workers from violence need to be investigated in more detail as to what they should be and why. That's why our Constitution is 98. Article 104 and 105 of the TBM Civil Code. We respectfully present the establishment of an Investigative Commission. [[İzmir]] 2) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] 3) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[Edirne]] 7) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 8) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Army]] 11) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] 12) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Malatya]] 15) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 16) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 20) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 21) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] 22) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Tekirdağ]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "In order to determine the causes and consequences of the violence committed by sick and sick relatives on health workers," we propose and propose the opening and opening of Parliamental investigation of our Constitution under the following grounds, under Articles 98th, 104th and 105th, under Articles of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The doctor is a professional scholar who has served in the field of health, described as the most important of a human being, both theoretical and practical for many years. As long as human beings exist, the need for the profession of medicine will not end. The practice of doctoring is considered a sacred profession, as is the case in any business involving human life. Even though doctors perform a sacred task day and night, regardless of race, religion, or language, in the end, he is also a human being. Hospitals have to take care of patients, especially patients brought to emergency rooms, and they also have to deal with their relatives in some way. Until the test results come back on the patient, the relatives of the patient are impatient to know what the consequences are. The conduct of a patient's relatives prevents doctors from serving their patients with better quality of quality, who are performing a direct profession with human life. His primary mission is to deal with some of the patients who are too far away from doing their job to take care of the patient at the time. As a result of some of his questions remain unanswered, the patient's relatives, who have been deemed uninterested, are becoming more aggressive. As a result, it has become routine to see reports of patient relatives and visual media almost every day that even patients are beating up a doctor or a paramedic, committing violence. The practice of doctoring is based on mutual respect and trust. This respect and trust has not suddenly been earned, but has emerged as a savings of many years. A trust and respect-based relationship between the patient and health workers will lead to a long-term social injury in trying to be damaged by third parties. Degeneration in the environment, based on respect and trust between a doctor-patient or patient-medicine, is a problem that is difficult, demanding and costly to repair in the future. In the field of health, we propose and propose the establishment of the Parliamentary Research Commission in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the reasons and consequences of the violence committed by patients and patients in the field of health care. [[Mersin]] 2) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Kütahya]] [[Slap]] [[Yozgat]] [[Inconceived]] 8) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] [[Tripoli]] [[Sakarya]] [[Adana]] [[Kastamon]] 14) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Elizipt]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Ankara]] 18) Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] [[Kayseri]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate and determine the necessary measures for healthcare workers in our country, we propose and propose the opening of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey. 18.04.2012 Health is a complete goodness in the body, spiritually, and socially. All of our health workers who serve for the health of our people and perform a sacred task in this way are trying to fulfill their duties day and night in order to deliver their health care to our citizens fully and uninterrupted. At times there are violent incidents, however unique to health workers. Sacrificed medical staff, sometimes ill, sometimes subject to verbal or actual violence from their relatives. The quality of health care is an essential principle for the development of public health. The medical staff and especially the opinion that doctors will be subjected to violence prevent them from contributing enough to the development of public health. The failure of physicians to work efficiently can also have a negative effect on the country's economy, not only on public health. Even if it is unique, such sad events demoralize health personnel, demoralizing work. For whatever reason, no form of violence can ever be tolerated against anyone and especially the health workers. With this motion, if there is an individual investigation of violence against health workers, it is intended to be scientifically identified and to develop policy on their solutions. [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Mohamed Murtaza Kığ [[Adıyaman]] [[Kütahya]] 5) Ahmet Haldun Erturk [[İstanbul]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Samsun]] [[Kayseri]] [[Janitor]] [[Silver House]] [[Inconceived]] 14) Oğuz Khan Koksal [[Fractured]] [[40s.]] [[Sivas]] [[Kütahya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Yalova]] [[Kayseri]] [[Yozgat]] [[Kayseri]] 26) Mahmoud Mujahit Nuts [[Malatya]] [[Niğde]] [[Elizipt]] [[Church]] [[Kırşehir]] [[Kırşehir]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Scholarship]] [[Edirne]] [[Manisa]] 36) Mehmet Kerim Yıldız [[Pain]] 37) Mehmet Doğan Kubat [[İstanbul]] 38) Akif Çağatay Sword [[Samsun]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the opening of Parliamentary Research in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th, TBM Institution, and 105th Articles, in order to investigate the recent violence, in particular, in order to avoid the necessary measures to prevent these violent attacks. Health care has been privatised as part of the Health Transformation Programme, which the AKP government has launched, and it is as obvious as the day when health care is privatized and as much as your money is tried to establish. Instead of producing quality and free services, the Transformation Programme has reduced the rights and dignity of physicians and has increased financial and spiritual barriers to public health. An important and decisive factor in the negative health environment and forced labour conditions created by the Health Project, under the pressure of the Performance system, is the government's limited payments to the service of the Social Security Agency (SGK), the doctor's professional autonomy, the fact that he has to give patients a shorter time to care for more patients, the fact that he has to devote more time to privatisation of health care, the reason for the health policy of the government's health policy, as well as for the declaration of scapegoats. From this whole market-based model of healthcare, pink paintings of health care are drawn by government officials to create hallucinations. The bankruptcy of health policies is increasing day by day, and the AKP government is trying to cover this bankruptcy as well as to bill physicians and health workers for the failure. Despite qualitative problems in health care and market health, the government is trying to cover the problems of its self-producing neoliberal market-marketing healthcare, saying there is no problem with access to continuous health care, providing free and quality health care, in a sense confronting public and health workers. Because of all these AKP ruling policies, physicians and health workers are exposed to the public under any negative circumstances. So physicians and health workers are subjected to severe violent attacks. We move to investigate the problems of physicians and health workers due to working conditions, the problems of their working environment, the problems of their health policies, and a parliamentary search for solutions to all of them. [[Bingöl]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, violence against physicians and other health workers is increasing day by day. Last time a colleague of ours was murdered in Gaziantep. The health of health workers has deteriorated due to widespread and irreparable acts of violence. The physicians have been unable to serve. In an effort to investigate the causes of violence, to find solutions, and to form anti-violence policies, the TBM Charter 104 and 105. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of Parliamentary Research. With all due respect. As the AKP government's health policy for healthcare is established, the physical, verbal, psychological and economic violence against health workers is increasing, and the news on this issue has been written and increasingly in the visual media. In the end, the news of the murder was mentioned with health. The number of health workers reported violence by applying to medical rooms and other health clinics has grown as an avalanche. Violence in health has been placed on top of the agenda of health workers and public opinion. For whatever reason, violence is not likely to be tolerated. Unfortunately, health care workers have suffered problems because the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister, at times, target health workers by misdirecting cheap policies and facts. Health workers who are subjected to violence and who live in constant fear of violence have been discouraged in their work. This has revealed a situation called "degenerative medical practices," and health workers are almost afraid to touch patients. Patients suffer from all these problems. Health workers have begun their tendency to send patients to other centers, which are difficult to treat so as not to take risks. However, the tendency to seek more consultations than other majors, more studies, and to resort to methods that push the limits of cost-benefit rates, such as the effort to secure his own defence file. So, instead of just thinking about his patient, health workers have been made to think about a lot of unnecessary things because of fear of violence. The product of AKP's rule, "Violence in Health," has become important enough to be the subject of scientific congress and symposiums. In fact, some of these symposiums have been attended by the Minister of Health. About a third of the patients have started to apply to emergency services as a result of the "low wage and performance practice" imposed by the AKP's government on the doctor as a health transformation. Thus, the quality of service to a patient with a real emergency has been reduced. With these applications, the patient's waiting period in emergency rooms is increasing, while the doctor's time for patients is dwindling. This is one of the most important reasons to increase violence. Unfortunately, physicians have seen their colleagues commit murder by providing legal services to the person exposed to the violence against the health worker and preventing the practice of "code" performed in the hospital. As a result, the Health Transformation Programme has made society sick, it is evident that violence against health workers has increased. Health workers' safety concerns are of great importance that they can return to society as a health issue. [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] 3) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Ahmet Haluk Koç [[Samsun]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Malatya]] [[Tunceli]] 14) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Let's go.]] 21) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] It has been presented to your knowledge. Under the decision taken, talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held shortly. We move on to the agenda's part of the agenda's "Preparations on General Discussion and Assembly Research." Of İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu and 22 MPs (10/49); of Tokat MP Reşat Right and 20 MPs (10/113); Mersin MP Aytuğ Atici and 27 MPs (10/118); and Tekirdağ MP Candan Başeer and 24 MPs (10/252) during the 113th time; İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and 24 MPs (10/253); İzmir MP Hülya MP Hülmı and 22/10/10/10 MP (10/10/118); and Ankara MP Candağ MP Candan Öçer (10/252) who have been presented for information (10/252); İstanbul MP Candımın and 24 MPs (10/253); İstanbul MP Hülya MP Hülya MP 22/10/10/10/10/10/10/10/10); and Ankara MP Candıtın MP and Ankara MP (252) are investigatingdın MPs who will be asked to be asked to be investigated and to be asked to be investigated and to be investigated and to be asked to be investigated and to be investigated on the following a number of 255 MPs and 255 MPs and 255 MPs and 255 MPs. Government? He's in position. I'm not re-reading parliamentary research motions because they've been read in the General Assembly before. According to our Interior Charter, it will be promised to the government, the political party groups, and the first signee in the motions, or another signator, in order to determine whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened. Their talking time is twenty minutes each for the government and the groups, ten minutes for the motion holders. Now, I'm reading the names of the following members: On behalf of the government, Recep Akdağ, Minister of Health. On behalf of the groups, İdris Baluken, Bingol MP on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group; Aytuğ Atici on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Mersin MP; Cemalettin Simsek on behalf of the National Movement Party Group; Samsun MP; Necdet Üçüvar on behalf of the AK PARTI Group; Adana MP. The draft owners are Mehmet Şeker, Gaziantep MP; Reşat Beşat, Tokat MP; Özgür Special, Manisa MP; Candan Yüçüker, Tekirdağ MP; Nurettin Demir, Muğla MP; Muharrem İş, Erzincan MP; Ali Öz, Mersin MP; Mustafa Baloğlu, Konya MP; Abdullah Levent Tüzel, İstanbul MP, Aytun Çıray, İzmir MP. First word, on behalf of the government, Mr. Recep Akdağ, Minister of Health. Here you are, Mr. Akdağ.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0026par0633	Mr. President, dear MPs of our great House, I salute you all. We're all here today to discuss the Council's research motions on a very important matter for all of us. On this occasion, I salute you all. I've just said it's a historic day, as far as I'm concerned. Because together, we're going to investigate how to protect the health workers in the most accurate and powerful way against violence as Congress. We, the Ministry of Health, have been focusing particularly on this for the last three years, and we've also found that this problem is a universal problem, and it's really very common in the world. It is a fact that in our country, violence has become more violent compared to other employees -- if it comes to public employees or other workplaces -- compared to these workplaces. Although there are no extensive, comparable studies in our country, we know that fact. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to give you an example of a country that we can compare with Turkey about the world. Britain, especially in recent years, has done serious work, published the results, and taken measures. In 1998, there were 65 thousand verbal and actual attacks on health workers in England. In 2001, we also see that the number of events in the same country is 84 thousand a year. Now, we have civil trade organisations or other friends who talk about increasing violence in Turkey, as well as the reasons of our valued lawmakers, our valued lawmakers who have submitted our research proposals, but the fact is that the recorded cases in Turkey do not reflect the truth. So violence has increased. I don't find it very helpful to focus on the discussion, or the same argument. Because we don't want a single health worker exposed to violence, and we don't accept that. Then we need to talk about how to strengthen our measures together, how to discuss them, how to talk about them. Again, one year in England, 84,000 cases were mentioned in 2001. Especially with nurses, we see that violence is a little more common around the world, and we see that one third of the total treatment of violence, unfortunately, has reached actual violence. At this stage, we need the common mind of our great House, support. I said it would be very helpful if we discussed this with our group, our friends, the Council's motion for research on this matter. With our council, we need the support of the judiciary, the press, all trade organisations; no doubt, we need the support of our opposition. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to speak very briefly about my dear brother Ersin's condition. Indeed, we have been deeply hurt by the death of a man who dedicated his life to his patients by a man who died in the prime of his life by a man who was young and desperate at a young age. I wish him God's mercy again, and my condolences to his family and to all our health workers. He was a shining brother of ours. The knife that was pointed at him -- I've expressed it before -- is a knife pointed at me, and I feel it as a knife pointed at me. My dear brothers and sisters, there was another attack on Van. When I mentioned this earlier, we also condemn the attacks on the health system. I appeal to your logic and reason: How can an MP attack a medical officer, a doctor, make threats, swear and commit actual rape have anything to do with the health system? We have to be merciful to each other here. Yes, you, as the opposition, may not like what we do in our health care system, you may not like what we convert, and I respect that, but when we talk about the attack of an MP, we also condemn the attacks on the health system. I hope that this will be brought to light in further discussions, and I wish my brothers and sisters in Van Nah to be well-pleased. My dear brothers, from time to time, we do not need to view the verbal oral assaults of ignorant transgressors against the medics as the attitude of the state. Studies show us that both the works of the Turkish Statistical Institution and the work of the health-related union -- because there is a world of work in the market, but there is not much collective work outside of these two -- that our citizen is actually satisfied with the medic, the doctor, and he says, "God will be pleased with him." There's nothing wrong with this relationship. From time to time tensions may occur, problems may occur from time to time due to the work density, but the children of this beloved nation are generally satisfied with the services given to them by doctors and medics, and they do not always miss their prayers. We've been through this as doctors, and now as Minister, I'm going through the same thing again -- again with the feeling of a doctor. So, our main issue here is to create polemics, not to argue about the system here, but to make it seem like a reason for all of us to do this violent act as if it's some sort of excuse for all of us to do it, we have to go after it, we have to discuss it, and I believe we're going to find a more profound solution to the problem. Otherwise, the health workers, Mr. Minister, are being abused by someone because of the Prime Minister's remarks. It doesn't reflect any truth, it doesn't solve our business, it doesn't solve our problems. Yeah, well, maybe with a political polemic, our fans can give us a reputation, but it's obvious that it's not going to cure the wound. A lack of self-awareness advanced enough to inflict violence on a health worker must be punished in a necessary manner. Our law enforcement forces must show the necessary sensitivity in this matter. A public organization has to be reported to the prosecutor by law, whether it's a verbal or actual attack on a health professional, whether it's a personal complaint or not. Our observations are that the cases are often resolved in place, by the so-called agreement, or by not reporting to the prosecutor's office. In this regard, our Ministry of Interior will now publish a statement, but I would like to take the seat of Congress and address all the members of the police, and I would like to address all health administrators: it is a crime in the eyes of the law not to report it to the prosecution if it is in the line of duty of duty to a doctor, a nurse, an emergency medical technician, a paramedic, a paramedic. Now we're going to follow this very closely. Dear lawmakers, once again, I would like to say to the Turkish nation that health workers are under a great deal of pressure. We've opened up all the rights. A citizen's application to a family physician is free, a citizen can apply to hospitals, he can go to private hospitals, and an emergency patient cannot be asked for five cents. The citizen has the opportunity to explain his problems through certain lines. Then I'll make it very clear that whoever resorts to violence is on the floor of the House, and we're not gonna let that person get away with it. So as a right-seeking act, we will never accept violence, we cannot accept it. The issue will begin once, when it's perceived by society. This is not an excuse. If there's been any trouble, if there's been a lack of interest, there's a right to be sought out, precious lawmakers. We, as health workers, are burdened with heavy labor, and despite the weight of our work, we will continue to do well in the ministry with the understanding that transformation in health is worthy of man. My dear brothers, dear lawmakers, the fierce introduction of mankind begins with the landing of the earth, but someone here may be involved in violence, persecution, injustice, and someone standing up to him, facing persecution, injustice, and violence. We, the AK PARTY, have always faced persecution in this mutual struggle. We know that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has always faced persecution. And I'm sure we'll continue to face violence and injustice together. What measures have we taken so far, dear lawmakers? We've done a lot of applications in the form of a holistic healthcare program. Now we're going to develop this as a Work Health and Safety Action Plan. On October 16, 2009, during a notice of emergency services, we instructed our hospital administrations to take the necessary precautions, and we followed that subject. On April 6, 2011, we developed a method for immediate intervention in what we call the white code system. We've set up security committees that work in hospitals. These committees are currently active at 79 percent of our hospitals. We'll also form the working rights and security units that will work with these committees in the first quarter. We started a study called respect for the work, zero tolerance for violence. We arranged a symposium with the union in charge on this matter. I've just heard reason, and our dear friends say that the minister of health discussed violence at a symposium he attended. That's what violence has become. That's what they did. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's nothing more than that. Such an ancient problem can't be as natural as the fact that a problem in all the countries of the world is being dealt with by symposiums, meetings, workshops, new regulations, research commissions of our Parliament. We've activated a very new public practice under Code 663, valued lawmakers. For the first time in the public today, we, the Ministry of Health, have been able to monitor the legal rights of health workers who were subjected to verbal or physical violence during health care. So if a health worker was exposed to violence, we've been able to follow his case to the end with our Ministry of Health lawyer, his lawyer. This happened with a rule of law we made in November. Now we're about to publish your code. For the past two years, we've been celebrating the March 14th Medical Holidays, weeks of love, the best medicine, to improve the relationship between patients and health workers, with programs to strengthen them, and we're doing media campaigns in this regard. Dear lawmakers, we will continue to develop these measures in the coming period. What are we going to do in addition to what we've done so far? In short, I'd like to inform your committee on this matter. In co-operation with our universities, we are launching a major investigation, which represents all health workers, especially with our professors who specialize in business safety and violence -- the number of which is unfortunately very few in Turkey. We will look at the situation in a comprehensive way with a large study that can view the whole of Turkey as an example; we will review the measures that we have taken and the measures that we have taken now in the coming period because of how effective it has been with our research every year. We've started meeting with our Justice Minister and our Justice Department bureaucrats to revisit punishments against those who resort to violence against healthcare workers to increase deterrents. We're taking the zero tolerance of violence to a new dimension in which we are closely following the process at every stage until the event is recorded and punished by the attacker. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we are forced to report the violence. Hospital administrations will be obliged to report violent incidents immediately, as well as health care personnel who have been subjected to violence if this has not been reported or if this has not been done enough, they will be able to make these notifications directly to a private phone line and a web page that we have assigned to them. We'll make sure the health workers get a civil suit against those who are violent, and as the Ministry of Health, we'll follow up on that. In order for the white code application to be implemented more effectively, we will create safety alarms, especially in high-risk areas such as emergency services, so that health personnel can easily access them. By increasing the number of cameras in terms of our camera systems, except for those areas of privacy -- these systems, valued lawmakers, we've established them in hospitals, but now we see that we need to increase numbers and strengthen them -- and we're going to do a real-time, preventive, and strict follow-up. We're still interviewing our Home Office to increase police activity in risky areas. And we're going to increase the number of security personnel in risky areas again. Also, valuable lawmakers, we're going to give security guards additional training over the diplomas they get with standard training, on the condition that they serve in health care institutions. That way, we'll improve the staff infrastructure. If you'll excuse me, during the AK PARTI period, I'd like to point out where the number of security guards at public health services came from during our Health Transformation Programme: the system that we received with 900 security guards continues today with 1,700 security guards. But obviously we need to increase that number a little bit. Of course, security employment isn't just enough to solve this issue, but we know it's one of his precautions. We will ensure that patients with the potential for violence in any way before will be examined in appropriate environments; we will not allow those with prior prior criminal record to enter their clinic. And in any personal risk assessment, if necessary, we'll take the necessary measures to replace the relevant medical staff. Informative material for violent people, we will deliver to our institutions, other public institutions and media, under the name zero tolerance for violence, and we will emphasize to everyone that we will never tolerate violence. We are determined to create a strong awareness in every part of the community that the verbal or actual attack on the health worker will be punished. In the meantime, we'll continue our media campaigns by saying that love is the best medicine. We'll also form special units trained to inform on the citizens. We're going to make announcements and boards with patient rights and the rights of health workers. We will remind our citizens and health workers that these rights are held hand in hand in an environment of love and respect. We're going to give medical personnel basic training for safety, communication and stress management. In fact, our employees should also receive these trainings during their studies, for which we will co-operate with the Ministry of National Education and the NGO. Dear lawmakers, can we place metal detectors in our medical institutions, we're looking at different examples of countries now, and we haven't decided on that yet.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0027par0661	That's good money!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0026par0662	Dear lawmakers, it is really unfair to accuse the system, health workers of violence against the system, healthcare workers in a place where 76 per cent of the citizens express satisfaction with health, another 80 per cent of the citizens -- in another study, in the work of the authorized union -- where they say they are satisfied with health workers and health services. In my opinion -- perhaps these will be discussed during the debate -- but I find it much more useful to discuss how the High Assembly will interpret them, how it will contribute, if it should form a parliamentary research commission in matters that I have just expressed with you a significant part of this subject rather than in the form of such a polemic element. Dear MPs, claims that the doctors have been discredited are an additional false claim. Medical school admission points have been rising in recent years.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0028par0665	Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0026par0666	I'm finishing, Mr. President, could you give me one more minute?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0028par0667	I can't, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. Please...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0029par0669	Why can't you? We want to hear it, but we want to hear it, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0030par0670	Yes, sir. I salute your honorable coven.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0031par0673	No, it's the MPs. The band will talk in 20 minutes. Please, please...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0032par0674	We want to hear it, we can't get enough of it, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0031par0675	Now, Idris Baluken, Bingol MP who wants to speak for the Peace and Democracy Party Group. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here's the issue, Bauken.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0033par0678	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group for a motion to investigate the violence of physicians and health workers. I salute your committee. Of course, for a long time, we've actually been trying to get your attention and solve the problems that exist. We have repeatedly told you from this platform that the bottom line is that there are policies under the names of the Health Transformation Project, that health and transformation policies die day after day. We've shared with you over and over again how the opening of health, the commercialisation of health, the privatisation of health with direct or indirect practices deepens the current problems. We are faced with the task of continuing to convey to you from this platform how health rights deepened the stalemate in which health is imprisoned as well as money. We've shared with you every day, especially with the Health Transformation Project applications, to bring you here and discuss what problems both health workers and health workers face, patients and relatives who have received services. Of course, with the Change in Health Programme, in fact, when we were in bankruptcy, we exposed to all of our people here that this bankruptcy was wanted to be billed to physicians and health workers through popular rhetoric. We've had long talks about the part of the contribution, the extra fees taken under different names, and how the code for the green area, which was finally activated in the emergency rooms, led all the dead ends of the system to the physician and health workers. We have repeatedly expressed to you from here how health workers and physicians who have been brought into the vortex of performance are trapped between the anxiety of livelihood, the anxiety of the future, and the ethical anxiety. We've spoken many times about how the sacred, the Hippocratic, the most sacred relationship of all time, the doctor-patient relationship, has turned into a business-client relationship because of you. We've shared over and over again how respect, love, and trust -- the essential elements of the relationship between the physician and the patient -- were destroyed by these policies. We've shared with you again and again that an approach to hospitals based on the logic of a tradehouse is not a preemptive approach to patient health, but a preemptive approach to maximum profit. After all our transactions, what did you do? You've been at the point of rejecting all of our statements, providing unconditional, unconditional support for the policies the Ministry has given you, setting obstacles in the way that we want to open a debate on the solution to every problem. Look, I'm not going to go back too far on this, but I'm going to tell you about a research proposal that was given just a month ago. I will only read from here the introduction and final sentences of the motion to investigate violence against the physician and health workers given by the Republican People's Party Group, and I will leave the appreciation for the comparison of approaches to our people. On behalf of our group, I speak, and the opening sentence is this: I have made a pledge in favor of the Republican People's Party's motion for research on violence against physicians and health workers. I respectfully salute your committee. I read the sentences I finished after long details about health policies and transformation policies: ▪ Because of all the negativeities we count, it is imperative that the Assembly be involved in violence against the increasing physician and health workers every day, to form a research commission, and to present some solution approaches according to the results. Therefore, I would like to say that we will vote in favor of the motion for research, and my compliments to all of you. (Applause from BDP rows) Look, this is about a proposal that was brought a month ago on March 14th, on the Day of Medicine, for the physician, to investigate violence against health workers. In response to this discussion, Minister Ismail Sun of the AKP Group appears, and I have made a promise against the President, the esteemed MPs, to the doctors of the Republican People's Party to offer violence. I salute your high council and our beloved nation. Of course, after long detailed pink paintings, Mr. Ismail Sun concludes his speech as follows: The violence will be reduced even further. Mr. Health Minister's work continues on this matter. The application of the white code -- inshallah -- will take effect in April. So we're going to try to reset the violence to the health workers. Therefore, I declare myself against this motion. My respects to all of you. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Look, the fingers you lifted about the research proposal a month ago, and unfortunately, the applause you've put out, have led us to today's grim picture. If we, on that day, had been able to convey to our people the condition of the House's involvement in this chaotic situation, we might not be experiencing any of the chaotic processes we're going through these days. Perhaps Ersin would still be alive and looking for patients at the head of his profession. Someone has to die to get your head around it. On April 18th, a colleague of ours was brutally murdered after an attack, the AKP Group and Mr. Health Minister rejected a research motion a month ago, and now, again, with pink paintings, we believe there are some lessons to be learned from here. Of course, you have to get the reason right. That's what we were saying that day, and now we're saying the same thing. The real cause of violence against physicians, health workers, is the policy of transformation in health that is bankrupt. As a proponent of these bankrupt policies, it's a complete summary of today's picture to throw physicians and health workers in front of the sick and sick or in front of our people. So here, especially after Ersin's loss of life, I see that you're a little startled as a group, which is a happy thing, but unfortunately you still don't wake up from the deep sleep that you've found at the point of resolution. The reason why you are startled is that the reaction, the sensitivity of our people, the response of our hundreds of thousands of colleagues, sick, sick relatives, who have been in the streets because of the loss of our friend's life, has forced you to become somewhat startled. If you want to wake up, you'll come here and explain to everyone from this platform about the real solution to the problem, the inadequacies, the setbacks, and the bankruptities of health policy. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, look, these health workers and physicians have been trying to actually announce their voices for over a year to wake you up from your deep sleep. During that time, our colleagues left work, they went on strike, they went out on the streets, they stormed the Ministry, they came to Ankara, they cried out for attention, but unfortunately we played blind, deaf and dumb in all these demands until we lost Ersin. Now, we want this event to be a part of a generation of arguments, at least to prevent any further painful events. But when we listen to Mr. Secretary here, we see again how inappropriate our hopes are. Mr. Health Minister comes up here and talks about safety policies, health care, security concepts. So it's not enough that you approach the basic problems of our country, the problems of Kurdish, the problems of democratization, the rights and freedom of workers with a concept of security, as if you've drawn all these problems into total chaos within the safety concept, now that I'm in health -- if I'm in the right -- to declare an exit to a safety concept from here. Now, here, if there's going to be a security approach, we'd like to renew our warning that the problem is going to get deeper. Look, from hundreds of thousands of health workers in the area, increase our security measures, put a policeman in charge of every physician, every medical worker. Put barriers in front of reacting patients. Have you ever heard of violent police violence in hospital gardens, hospital corridors, gas, pressure water? Hundreds of thousands of health workers on the field see health-transmittance policies as a factor in these events, see increasingly market-opening practices in health, increasingly commercialized in health, and demand immediate withdrawal from these practices. So here, we need to put the problem right and discuss the solution right. The solution is that in health, you will give up this philosophy of transformation policy. Everyone in this country, all the citizens of this country, are paying a lot of taxes on this country, and the Constitution of this country is defined as a clear principle that this country is a social state. So, as a need to be this social state, you have a duty to provide every citizen with no money, equal, qualified, and accessible health care in their native language. If you continue to run the mentality here through commercialization, privatisation, as much health as your money, we will often come together in this way, unfortunately, with the painful consequences of these practices. Of course, we have repeatedly voiced the need to make arrangements for the working conditions of physicians and health workers, again today. I would like to repeat from this point forward that an arrangement for a job guarantee, a wage policy, a rights rights policy, and a basic need are essential, in fact, in which physicians and health workers who work for 365 days and 24 hours are entitled to human dignity, to maintain their own lives, to have no future concerns, to maintain their professional development. Here follow-ups are also required, not on individual applications regarding violence against physicians and health workers, but on a public case. Look, Mr. Health Minister here talked for 40 minutes, he's devoted almost half his 40 minutes to the practice of the Van Congressman. Now, is removing, expelling, resigning, or in any way condemning the Van MP a solution to these problems that we've had in health, which is half of what you've been talking about? Here, the public, the health workers, have an expectation of you, and you're going to talk about something concrete about that expectation. Here, I'd like to give you some information about the incident at Van. There's two dimensions to it. Of course, you're interested in a single dimension, and you're degenerating. The first event is the extent of violence to the physician, the extent of violence to health workers. The statement made by our party headquarters regarding this dimension is very clear. If you're involved in politics, you've probably read this statement. It was clearly defined in a clear way that this was unacceptable in any way, that it was unacceptable, that the research and study process had begun, and that the results would be shared with the public as soon as possible.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0034par0696	We're watching.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0033par0697	We understand that you're in a hurry to create a lifeline for yourself in health-changing policy, but there's a second dimension. You have an obligation to refer to that second dimension as Minister of Health. Look, there are some fundamental facts here about discrimination against a BDP MP. Here...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0034par0699	It's all slander.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0033par0700	It's not a bet, it's not a bet.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0034par0701	It's slander, not slander.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0033par0702	A first-degree relative, wife and three-year-old child of a member of parliament who has taken three turns and left a car on a perte is going to the hospital and can't get the medical attention they need for an hour with an examination, the size of an intervention.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0034par0703	That's what everyone who commits violence takes refuge in.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0033par0704	You, as a pediatrician...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0034par0705	Everyone takes refuge in them.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0033par0706	You're a three-year-old...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0035par0707	Mr. Secretary, please, let's not talk in person. When it comes to bullying, you want to talk about it.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0033par0708	...to be held on a stretcher in the E.R. for an hour without medical attention? Not a congressman, but are you willing to submit to the procedure of any injured person, a wounded man in a car that's had three flips on a perte, not on a stretcher for an hour, but on the stand of the congressman's wife? As Minister of Health, I am willing to accept such a painting in the emergency room. If you say so, we will have nothing to say anyway.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0036par0709	This time, it's not like you said.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0033par0710	Look, there's a tragic incident here that stems from applications related to your healthcare system. There are two patients who require intervention, severe accidents, severe trauma risk, risk of internal bleeding, brain bleeding, but there's a four-time process in which there's no interference through the system you brought in. Why is there an I.D.?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0036par0711	You're encouraging those who want to be violent, you're encouraging them!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0033par0712	We're not encouraging it.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0036par0713	That's exactly what you're doing.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0033par0714	I'm explaining the second dimension to you...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0036par0715	Pity! Pity!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0037par0716	Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0033par0717	We made it clear that we condemn violence and disapprove of violence.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0038par0718	Let them condemn their own deputy.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0033par0719	Look, even asking for an identity from a car accident, let alone a medical profession or a medical profession, is not a requirement of the human conscience. Can you imagine that people getting out of that vehicle would be concerned about their identity? Let's just say it did, why is this identity so important? First, from the E.R., the Ministry's instructions are to reduce the fugitives, reduce the money that escapes. Secondly, you're going to record it so the performance system can continue and reflect on you in some way.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0039par0722	I mean, it can't be that twisted.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0033par0723	There are no distortions.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0039par0724	These are all distortions.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0033par0725	You know what I'm saying is completely true.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0039par0726	There's a terrible twist, terrible.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0033par0727	Look, there's only one reason why the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister are holding on to this incident like lifelines, is that it's an attempt to mask the bankruptcy that happened in health policy. You show such sensitivity, we appreciate it, and show sensitivity to violence against health workers and physicians. But here, when the hospital director was beating the doctor, while my governor was beating the woman doctor in Diyarbakır, while the AKP MP was beating the doctor, while we were saying...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0039par0728	They're all on trial. They've all been handed over to the judge.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0033par0729	Why didn't you come here and show the same sensitivity when the Chief of Medicine was beating up the doctor at Eagle Education Research Hospital? Why didn't you come and give a speech in the context of the conversation you had today? Now, of course, we can talk about this for hours here. However, there is a perception that the deputy of the BDP wants to achieve some advantages using his parliamentary status. It's not just about this case, it's basically about being a BDP representative in this country, so to speak, wearing a shirt of fire. No one has ever been a representative of the BDP to give them an advantage. Again, you're having a hard time understanding that we're against the violence of health workers and physicians wherever it comes from, wherever it comes from, we're against it, and we're going to carry out all the necessary applications.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0040par0732	Don't argue. Do as you're told.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0033par0733	However, there is a picture of the second dimension of your Ministry's policies reflected in the emergency room, and we have to reflect that painting here.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0040par0734	Give me your message, and give it to someone else to do it.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0033par0735	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, with the policies of health today... we're out of time, so I'll make this brief. According to European standards, a physician has 20 minutes to devote to a patient according to world standards. A doctor with 150 patients in Turkey does not have a period of time, let alone 20 minutes, five minutes. Imagine that during a clinic, you will be replaced by a patient in the 150th row with a serious illness. The point of health, the level we've come to, unfortunately, is that even if we argue here for hours, it's not over. However, despite all the negativity, I wish you'd approved these research proposals a month ago, if only you'd been involved in this chaotic violence in health a month ago. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] After all, it's a win-win wherever it comes from. We still care about the sensitivity that you show today, and we really hope that the necessary work on it will be a means to an end. Thank you all, thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0041par0741	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Speaking for the Republican People's Party Group, Aytuğ Atici, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0042par0745	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group to investigate the causes of violence against physicians and health workers, and to investigate, find solutions, and establish parliamentary research into anti-violence policies. No matter who it comes from, no matter who it's applied to, I salute all lawmakers who are against violence and voted to condemn violence. Unfortunately, the murder of my colleague, operator Dr. Ersin Arslan, led us to gather on this subject and a commission to investigate the growing causes of violence against health workers. I offer him God's mercy, and my condolences to his loved ones and to the whole medical world, and I bow before his memory. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to remind you that in the past 15 days alone, there have been ten incidents of violence reported to the physician. Dear MPs, on March 14th Medical Day, AKP MPs, I mean, if you were discreet, perhaps Dr. Ersin would still be among us today, perhaps not die. Let's remember what happened on March 14, 2012: We, the Republican People's Party, investigate violence against physicians and other health workers. We had already downloaded the motion that we had made in September. Let's set up this commission as a holiday gift. What did I say when I was talking about this motion? I specifically said, "I'm reading from the authorities, especially for lawmakers of medical background, and I'm going to look at them now, and what are they going to do?" I will personally choose how many physicians raise their hand and I will report you everywhere. And unfortunately, all of you, AKP MPs, including physicians, did not need to investigate the violence against the physician. So I did what I said, and I complained about you, everywhere, to everyone, especially the Minister of Health. When I turn my tongue, as much as my heart can tell you what you're doing here, I'm talking about it all over the place, street by street, house by house. If those fingers had not been lifted, Ersin might not have died. The news of the death of Dr. Ersin had rocked all of Turkey. Now, I ask you, have you ever done internal accounting? I'm asking all AKP MPs, including the minister, have you done internal accounting? When you were alone with your conscience, did you ever ask yourself, "Where did I go wrong? Did you ever look in the mirror and see how free my will is? Have you ever felt a prisoner of the Receps? What in God's name has changed in forty-two days? What's changed? What happened to the fingers that said no violence? Now there is violence. They will rise up. Did we have to die to tell you that violence exists, that it's cruel? We're dead. Why couldn't we tell you that? Why don't you understand us? Look, we have violence. On March 14th, when we cried out for violence, AKP MP said from this stand: "Now that consciousness has increased, violence has become even less violent to health workers. The Hekmik is a citizen. Is that what you understand about integration, for God's sake? You all raised your hand together, joined the crime. You're guilty, just like the day you laundered the violence you created in the House with your fingers. Paramedics with liver burns go out on the streets worried that one day the line might come to them; thousands, tens of thousands walk; leftist, rightist walk together. Look, they don't always walk together, leftist, rightist. The practitioner, the professor, walks together; the technician, the nurse, they all walk arm in arm; they show their democratic response. What's our Democrat Prime Minister doing? He condemns physicians who protest against the murder of Dr. Ersin. He condemns doctors who exercise their democratic rights. We have a Prime Minister like that. Isn't that being involved in violence? Isn't that feeding violence? I said to myself, "Why is he acting like this?" I thought to myself, "I've thought long and hard; I've filled it up, and it's not wasted." Yeah, there's a psychological problem here. Why does the Prime Minister condemn his liver-burned physicians, condemn criminals? What is the Minister of Health doing, and why is the system so bad, and why is there so much violence? Why does he condemn the physicians? I wondered, I thought, and then I realized that the Prime Minister's account is strong, counting paramedics, counting one, and counting other people, and it turns out that the medics are going to have fewer votes on the other side, so there's no blame on them if they go to violence. He says, "They might die." He says, "They may die." That's the real face of the AKP government. Accept it. We're holding a mirror, trying to show you your true face. It's easy for him to get out of here and say nice things, but if there's anything wrong with what I'm saying, just get out of here and tell him it's wrong. That's what you've done so far. Why did we do so much about violence, guys? Look, from this podium, I handle most nuclear and violence. Why am I committing violence? Because violence is preventable. That's why we think it'll work when we draw attention to it. I'm a professor in medical school. I used to teach my students, and I used to say, "Friends, it takes three things to make a disease or a condition important: One, if this disease is seen too often, if it's important or if it's seen too little, it's important and three, if it's preventable, it's important. Spend all your strength on them. I would teach them. Is it common to come to health violence? At last, for the first time in ten years, the Honourable Minister has risen. He said, "Thank God, it's common. Is it killing? They called him "He doesn't kill." There he is. Can it be prevented? Yes, it can be prevented. I'll try to tell you how it's going to be in a minute. As the health policies of the AKP government have been established under the name Returning Health, there has been a growing increase in physical, verbal, psychological and economic violence against health workers over the past decade, both in the written press and in statistics reported to us and reported to us in the medical rooms. These cases we've been told are just part of the iceberg because those exposed to violence are sometimes ashamed to say that they've been exposed to violence, sometimes they're afraid. I've been encouraged by the media by the seriousness of the protest that occurred with the death of Dr. Ersin. In health, violence was brought to the public's attention. The press was scared, too, because the press was getting violent. The body of Ersin was not yet buried. Before he was buried, another doctor was beaten at the Copperville Sadi Hospital. We gave it to the ground, and the next day there was another violent incident in İstanbul. As if it were never enough, one of the MPs went and beat up the doctor. It's as bad as it gets. I condemn those who commit violence. If it's the governor who's doing violence, if it's the congressman, I'm guilty twice. Now let's see why the violence is increasing. The Minister of Health and the Prime Minister sometimes engage in talks by misleading the truth with cheap policies and targeting the workers. I told you from this platform. The minister says today: "No matter how much we talk, violence does not increase. " Can something be so funny? So you're going to get up, Doctor, take your hand out of the citizen's pocket. You're going to say, "No more violence!" As Prime Minister: I don't trust doctors, I don't even give them needles. You'll say, violence won't increase! Doctors are noisy. You will say, violence will not increase! I didn't say that, Mr. Secretary and Mr. Prime Minister said that. You'll tell the doctors not to send your children to college. You'll point to the doctor and you'll point to your child, and then you'll say, "No, this violence won't increase. If I don't give them performances, they'll never work for these doctors." If you haven't told them, they're all in the press. You said all that, the Prime Minister said it. Then you go out, and you say, "Why is violence increasing?" When you say violence doesn't increase by my words... Look, again, we used to tell our students that chronic illness will heal in a long time. Acute conditions, emergencies heal quickly. It's hard to accept a chronic illness, you know. It has four stages. The worst stage is denial. One: if you're told you have cancer, you say no. Two: you'll get very angry. Why me? I didn't even smoke a cigarette, and what crime have I committed, and what crime has God done to me? Then you accept it, step four, you start looking for a cure. Now, Mr. Secretary is still in denial, phase one. I didn't do anything, I didn't do anything. He did it, he did it, I swear it's not my fault. Is that even possible? Stop denying it right now. I see you go from stage one to phase two from time one, you get angry. You're the Secretary, you talked here for 40 minutes, 40 minutes. From there, from where you're sitting, you're talking to the congressman. That's a sign of anger. So you're also entering phase two from time to time, Mr. Secretary. Let's drop phases one and two. I know that breaking each other from here isn't going to stop violence. So I'm not going to get too high blood pressure here. I mean, I'm barely holding back, so I'm not going to raise it, but I'm really not going to, because our goal is to prevent the violence of physicians. But please stop this first and second phase, accept it immediately, accept your violence and responsibilities, and we'll seek a cure immediately. Now, you're going to cost workers all the problems in health care in the talks as if there's nothing wrong with the system. With a populist approach, you're going to create an air like a so-called health paradise in Turkey -- you're going to raise the expectations of the public from the physician and the health system -- there's really no such thing, and when the public doesn't respond to these expectations, it's going to be angry, it's going to be violent. For example, you've just asked, you said that 76 percent of our people are satisfied. You know what that means when you say 76 percent of the people are satisfied. Of the four who receive health care, three are satisfied, but that is not true. Why isn't it true? Because there's two studies done on doctors, and one of them says, "My doctor friend, how happy are you with your service?" Do you think you provide enough health care? 84 percent say no. No, I can't stand my oath. It says 84 percent. Even so, the system is not good, but the citizen who hears that the system is good thinks that it's really true, that three out of four people are really happy. Why am I unhappy? Did he hit me with a lottery? That's our problem. Look, the second investigation is a much more important investigation, and you might enjoy it. Turkey's Association of Reaccessors has done a search, new. You know, when you guys had Malpractice Insurance and everything, it was a mess. And these are the capitalists, looking for money where to come from, what to do with it. They're doing a study, the public's health concern for the future... very new, health concern, future health concern... 39% in 2008, and 52 percent in 2012. Would that interest you, Mr. Secretary? The concern has risen from 39 per cent to 52 per cent. That's 52 percent of people who are concerned are being violent. You're telling me that I'm gonna put a guard, put a cop, put a button, or something. You need to get to the bottom of the problem, the bottom of the problem. If you really don't get to the bottom of the problem, there's no way we can solve the problem. What is the state of health workers who are subjected to violence and who live in constant fear of violence? We all know that we've lost our enthusiasm for work. The physicians are now only seeking self-preservation. But you'll all be examined by those physicians one day. I'm asking the Prime Minister, how quickly did he forget about the medics who examined him in those painful days, struggling to heal him? Dear friends, if you make health and physicians a toy of politics, you will be ashamed to look at the honorable past of our profession. If the people who attack our profession, one way or the other, are doctors, especially the manager, they're ashamed; there's only one condition, that shame still exists. Now, the second reason for increased violence is the performance-based system. My friends called it the Health Transformation Programme. I'll go into some details. Why is the violence increasing? Due to the performance-based additional payment system, no one, no physician, no health worker has any sense of trust or belonging. Actually, I understand the Health Minister's struggles from here. If he says, "I have done wrong in the Change of Health," and in the performance. If he says, "I have done wrong in health," and acknowledges this righteousness, he will deny everything he has done for ten years, and I do not expect him to do so. He can't do that, but he can leave his place to someone better, make sure he gets back from that mistake. If he's not mature, then it's the Prime Minister's job. Even deaf sultans have now heard that physicians are rivals because of the performance system. Because of the performance system, professors, look, new graduate medical doctors, who are going to shape our future, are devastated. They've given up training, research, bread. It's all about how the performance system is inhumane and fueling violence. The minister said: "They're criticizing me. I'm going to the symposium in health." Why should we criticize Mr. Secretary? Of course, go. Violence in health is a fact, that's what the symposium is for. Well, that's nice of you to do. Go, but find out something when you're gone, and bring what you've learned, and apply it here. But just for friends to see me shopping, I've formed a zero tolerance group for violence, zero tolerance system, zero to zero, zero to nothing, zero to nothing. People die all the time. What they told you at the symposium over there, apply them and reduce the violence. Another practice that increases violence is the health minister's own inconsistencies. You have to accept that. If we accept these things, then the solution will be easier. But no, if we go on blindly, we'll get away with it. Mr. Secretary, congratulations, you've set a health-enforcement record. Even your bureaucrats don't know the number of changes. I've been following health for 30 years, and I've been looking for bureaucrats, and they say, "Is that what this is?" They say, "We don't know." There's hundreds of files in court. What kind of a mess is that? Of course, chaos leads to violence when no one knows what to do. You want samples? First you removed the mandatory service, then you brought it back. We said, "Well, it's mandatory service, something more reasonable, something more human. " No, it's mandatory... you started the chain of transport. We were glad, we said: "Ya, this Minister is doing good work every once in a while. " What good things are going to be two-by-two, two-by-three, just like we wanted, just like we taught our students. What happened? You piloted three places, four places, and the system flew away. Why? Because he made you lose votes. Therefore, you make your arrangements by the judgment, by the prosecution, by the law. We're objecting to the law, the Constitutional Court is calling it off, and you're giving us a warrant for the law right in front of our eyes. What's with the stubbornness? Think about it, you're scientists, if there are so many objections... what if we're traitors? We object, we say: "This is wrong." Ya, think about it, say: "Why do these men object?" If they're not crazy, they know something. Let's think about it. Let's sit down together, talk about it. Let's see how we can find a solution. It doesn't matter if you're finished, it doesn't matter if I'm finished, the health system is over, and that's the problem. You finally agreed that the doctor's working conditions were difficult, but let me ask you, is one attending available, 24 hours a day, 24 hours a day a day? Let us not be deceived by your sacred profession. We are people; we eat, drink, go to the toilet, die, and we are human. The state, the government has nothing to do with the sanctity of our profession, it has to pay for the profit we deserve. We're getting a share of the share. Violence is increasing, Mr. Secretary. You just said: "No money is taken in the ER." Will you resign if I prove to you that money was taken in the E.R.? Every time you come up here, you say: "No money is taken in the emergency room. " It is taken, Mr. Secretary. I've also offered you a lot of solutions, and we'll talk about them in the Commission, hopefully. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0043par0772	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0044par0773	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0043par0774	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0044par0775	I want word according to 69, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0043par0776	What do you want to talk about, according to 69? What did he say, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0044par0777	The statements I didn't say, Congressman...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0043par0778	What statements, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0044par0779	Doctor, take your hand out of the citizen's pocket.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0043par0780	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Three minutes, I promise, just before we get into a new mess.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0044par0785	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear President has given me a three-minute window, so I need to use these three minutes well. I didn't come up here for a polemic purpose. And at the beginning of my speech, I told you how important it is that we're focusing on what we're talking about today. Dear lawmakers, we have to agree on this once, so that we can move forward on this issue: one way or another, this person is violent because of a system. The system may be wrong to you, it may be right to us, it's an argument. We say that the citizens are satisfied with the system now that they've raised their 39% satisfaction to 76. Look, we're talking about citizens; you'll agree, you won't; these are years of research by the Turkish Statistical Agency. Moreover, the medical union's research shows similar results. Now, that's not the point here, that's the point: just now another MP has given us ten minutes, 15 minutes of excuses about the violence of a congressman. So let's say there's a mistake in the system that we're creating, assume it is, because that's what you're claiming. What do you guys do when you're out here on these platforms or at other meetings? The system's bad, they're violent. We can't solve it when you say it. You started your conversation so beautifully, you said: "No matter who comes from violence, no matter what kind, we are against it, and we are determined to prevent it." Our citizen, 2 million people a day, valuable lawmakers, 2 million people face doctors. It's wrong to strongly accuse these 2 million people of the system, 2 million people have nothing to do with it. There are people with violent tendencies in these 2 million. We can solve this problem by telling people who are prone to violence, regardless of what the system is, by taking precautions. Did we build the system in England? It's considered one of the most social systems in the world. Maybe our congressman wasn't here when I told him there were 85,000 verbal and actual violence cases a year in England. It's the British' own research. So, I beg you, let's put aside our esteemed lawmakers, polemics and political gains. No matter where the violence comes from, let's stand up to it as our esteemed congressman says. Let's figure out how to fight together through these research commissions. Let the commissions handle our fighting methods and improve them. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0045par0793	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, you've been called Lightning.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0046par0795	Mr. President, there is a need to correct the situation.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0045par0796	Wait a second. I'll give it to him if you'll let him speak.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0047par0809	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I begin speaking, I'd like to begin by saying to our doctor friend Ersin Arslan, who died in Gaziantep last week in a foul attack, that I may offer my condolences to God and to his relatives and to all the health workers. I also wish to make peace with our friend, who was attacked in Van. I condemn both violence with hatred. Mr. President, I have made a commitment here today to present the views of the National Party of Action, in order to consider the reasons and consequences of the violence committed by the sick and sick relatives on health workers as joint proposals for our political parties whose group is in parliament. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, first, I must say that as a health worker who has carried out nearly 30 years of my profession in the public and private sector, these joint motions are a delayed motion, so I don't think we should have expected a doctor in Gaziantep to be killed and a doctor in Van Goshen to be subjected to violence. Since then, such attacks on health workers have shown an increase in recent years, and violence and attacks against health workers have become common in newspapers and television daily. Without a doubt, this has something to do with health policies being monitored during this period. In particular, during the AKP's rule, health workers have suffered more violence than ever before. Medical workers have been discredited and targeted with the following health policies. Mr. Health Minister's statements have always been inflammatory to the health workers of the sick and the sick. These policies, which are followed, have forced health workers and especially physicians to observe other criteria as they apply their profession as a sign of their understanding of physicians, not of human health, but of other arguments. Such an understanding has been provided by the Ministry of Health by the Minister himself and has provided the basis for the opinion of health workers against doctors in the vicinity of patients and patients. The unfortunate explanations of Mr. Health Minister, who is particularly a physician, are very sad. In a recent statement, Mr. Health Minister, I give sentences to close a hospital that doesn't accept patients and demands money from them. I want to say that I care very much about Mr. Health Minister's attitude towards doctors, as if the emergency patient is being asked for money first. I've served as a health worker in the public and private sector for over 30 years. I know that no patient in an emergency hospital can be asked, "What is your health insurance? Do you have money?" First, the patient is treated in the measure of means, and the patient is tried to recover from his problems. In fact, there's no way that Mr. Health Minister doesn't know what emergency personnel and doctors are trying to do for that patient. But as it turns out, Mr. Health Minister's concern is not about improving the quality of health care or better health care for citizens, but rather about how to get more votes in the elections, so he makes these statements very consciously. But I'm calling to Mr. Government and Mr. Health Minister here that now the hat has fallen, it looks bald. Health services servers are not happy with the presentation of health care services in Turkey, and health care providers are not happy. The most important criteria for the presentation of health care are the quality and rationality of the presentation of health care. Whether you pay or don't pay, if you can't get quality health care, this health care service is of no importance if you can't find a cure for your problems. It's a fictitious performance system, and the physicians wanted to be compressed between their consciences and wallets, and the physician was confused with the score he'd rather be thinking about than taking care of the patient, which, by the way, has happened to the patient in intensive patient traffic. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, he claims, and I say, this is not a sustainable health policy, unfortunately. I suggest that he return from this and follow a more rational health policy while the government is nearing it. People are officially deceived by health care. People who have a close relationship with health know. By looking at many patients, it is not possible for health care to improve by increasing the number of patients. Today, research hospitals and medical school clinics work as a health clinic, a family doctor's clinic, for reasons stemming from the system, unable to make a study, due to the intensity, by not taking the time necessary for their patient. Years of sari, the application to the physician has increased considerably, but treatment satisfaction and quality have dropped. However, the money the state has spent on health care has not been paid back, although it is simply not enough. Dear lawmakers, human rights of life, health as well as the most basic right of rights, are also needed for the development and progress of societies, as well as for healthy generations. We find it useful to remind you of this fact once again here. I also want to express that this is indispensable to the future of our country. Despite all the inflating and populist approaches of the Ministry of Health today, Turkey, unfortunately, is far behind according to the United States and EU countries it has modeled for in health care. In the United States, the GDP is 16 per cent, the EU 27 per cent average is 8.92 per cent, and Turkey is only 6 per cent. Health spending per capita is $7,290 in the United States, $2,468 in the EU 27 countries, and $600 in Turkey. The number of physicians and staff per capita in Turkey is very few, compared to the United States and EU 27 countries we imitate. We also benefit from reminding the Prime Minister and the government that we are the 16th largest economy in the world and the 6th largest economy in Europe. Dear lawmakers, in this part of my speech, I'd like to share with you some assessments of the attacks on health workers and especially physicians. For the last five or six years, we've been hearing more and more news about the violence against physicians. At first, the news value was higher than today, since we had rarely seen this news. So since today's attacks have become very common, this news has unfortunately lost its significance and has become ordinary. Today, this news has become more common, and the difference between today and the past is that years ago, when we heard this news or read it, we did not have a sense of a threat to the medical community. These attacks on the physician are now a threat. In this sense, 40 physicians have applied to the judicial authorities within two months, including the eastern part of Turkey and a public employee. The Istanbul Medical Chamber and the Union of Turkish Medicines, in its growing study of violence against physicians and other medical staff in the health environment, the most important dimension is the transformation of health care and the health ministry's targeting of health medics, the level of education and media negative news is shown as a burden of overwork. Professor Faruk Aksoy, the head of the Consolidated Medicine Chamber, considers the matter as follows: "Now, there is a considerable amount of respect for the physician, regardless of the working environment and the social conditions of the physician, his physician's direct conduct has become common and frequent. The study of violence against the physician from 2008 to 2010 by the Burdur-Isparta Medical Chamber shows the proportion of the violence against the physician in Turkey. According to this research data, the rate of violence among public health care specialists is 45 per cent, while the rate of violence among specialists working in private health care is 5%. Health workers say they have been subjected to violence at least once in their lifetime, 64% and 96% of health workers who have witnessed violence. 86 percent of violent people are sick and ill relatives. The violence of patients alone is around 6%. Health administrators also carry out 14 per cent of the violence inflicted on health workers. Men make up 92 percent of those who commit violence. An assessment of this issue came from Professor Dr. Şahin Aksoy, head of the Şanlıurfa Medical Chamber. Dr. Aksoy says that the reason why emergency services physicians are often exposed to violence is because of work density, the tension of applicants, and, above all, the pumping of their eternal service and respect in an emergency promised by politicians in the health care centre. He explains that these are the main reasons for increased violence in the ER. Dear MPs, I would also like to share with you last year, at the end of 2011 -- the presentation of healthcare services in Turkey, which is part of an extended doctor's study in the declaration of results, led by 21 provinces and 19 doctors' rooms led by the Samsun Medical Chamber. The views expressed in this study are as follows: Arrangements that can motivate physicians should be put on the agenda and implemented immediately. Our professional reputation in public must be restored. Does a physician contribute to the transformation of health and health achievements if there is one? Should this contribution be rewarded or punished? It should be considered that the practice of a physician is not a service class associated with office, but rather an artistic group that serves day and night without the concept of working on holidays. The vague table before the physicians must be removed, and physicians must be made to do their duty with certainty of their tomorrow. It should be a performance-based return capital application, but a physician should receive 25 to 30 per cent of his income in this way, while 70-75 per cent of his income should also be a fixed income reflected in retirement. Performance practice requires a radical revision of the imbalances in the scores, the shortcomings in the surgical classifications, and the injustices between departments. The wrong image of a patient's right to insult the doctor and to tattoo him should be corrected, not to mention zero tolerances in violence, but to find the Minister of Health in front of the health worker. We believe that this form of the full-day law and performance-based capital system is injustice and cruelty to the owners of this sacred profession. The Union of Turkish Medical Medicine, head of medical rooms, should be in an approach that is free of ideology, politics, embraces everyone, only highlights physician's rights, which should produce policies, and stop cooperating with the physician's external factors. Dear lawmakers, although the performance-based additional payment system is basically being prepared with good intentions, in view of the situation, there is nothing good about it except for the good intentions we initially assumed it was. Unfortunately, he's turned into a patchy bundle, a freak who lays the groundwork for injustice and injustice. While the performance system was being edited, it was assumed that all doctors were lazy and could only be motivated by money. Instead of controlling and punishing a number of physicians who abuse the system and gain unfair gains, the punishment is given to the criminal in the universal and fair legal systems, and he cannot be punished innocent in front of the guilty. The logic has been destroyed and the question has been imposed against all physicians, whether it is forty mules or forty lines? It's impossible for the performance system to work as it is now. Right now, physicians who take little part in the system because of factors other than their own will and effort or because of their colleagues' unjust declarations and gains will learn the fraud of the system, and if they are willing to do so, they will receive more shares or transfer to hospitals that will find a way to return more capital. The silent, unaware victims of the system, no doubt, are sick. The current performance system encourages small cases, rather than making risky, large cases, because it earns more money and carries less risk. That's why the system of money until it's still imposed on physicians, when the charges against physicians are combined with the insufferable weight of the Malpraxian law, we start with patients who are the silent, unaware victims of the system. In fact, medical art -- not a profession, but an art -- is such an area that you won't be able to understand when this expression represents a medical truth, when it reflects the harsh reality of the relentless performance system. Sadly, the patient faced with this condition is very difficult to distinguish between a medical worker or even a physician. Here, the physician does not do this. Thoughts such as this will pass through the mind, but human psychology is similar, and it is only a dream to expect doctors, despite all the training they have received, to stand by this unjust and unjust system with sacrifice forever. Another practice where patients are victims without realizing it is unnecessary. ▪ More work, some physicians who were caught in the deceptive light of the monetary system have expanded their attentions, began to take every stone into the gallbladder, operate on every infected tonsils, do endoscopy with every urinary complaint or stomach burning. In short, it's compared to a stack of additional risks that can be cured by alternative treatments or can be diagnosed without interference. That's what happens when you don't pay for a permanent outcome in a human health business, but you pay for a capitalized conclusion. The rotating capital system, which seems to be the easiest way to write a prescription, is to prevent the doctor from working hard to get to the diagnosis and to solve the problem on the basis, and to deal with the same patient for long periods of time and to look for a cure. Unfortunately, at this rate, it is certain that we will soon witness some unethical behavior that we have not even considered today. The system must undergo a very serious revision immediately. We will patiently wait for those who established this system and took over the plague to gain the honor of correcting an unjust and unjust system by showing the virtue of returning from the fundamental stones of our faith and moral universe.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0048par0841	My dear President...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0049par0842	One moment, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Baluken had a request, I'll listen to it first.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0047par0843	Dear friends, I hereby salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0049par0845	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Baluken, you have a request, what do you want to say? Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0050par0847	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to make a promise to correct a statement the Minister used.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0049par0849	What's that expression?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0050par0850	Now, he's made an accusation that I'm looking for an excuse for a violent incident, and I'd like to point out that I don't accept it.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0049par0851	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0050par0854	To justify an incident, you have to confirm it, you have to own it. I made it very clear from that stand that we didn't accept it at all, that we didn't approve of it, so we don't have to look for an excuse for something we didn't own or approve of. A very important issue of violence is being discussed here in health, and the real agenda must not be thrown out over a different illusion of perception. I felt the need to make a correction. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0051par0857	Thank you, copy that. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0052par0859	Mr. Congressman, in his speech earlier, there have been provocative statements by the Minister of Bizzat against doctors. They actually said something that I never did, and I want to promise to correct it.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0051par0860	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0052par0865	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've just said the important thing we're talking about, you really have to be careful when you're doing polemics. When asked for money in an emergency, the health minister closes the hospital. He does not provoke the citizen against doctors.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0053par0866	You're instigating...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0052par0867	Because a private hospital in an emergency room asking for money meets the demands of the owners of that private hospital, its executives. Doctors don't take money from citizens in private hospitals. Yeah, well, we've given the hospital detentions because a patient who needs intensive care for a real emergency is being sent to another hospital because he's being asked to pay for it, or because the patient's being sent to another place, so...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0053par0868	That's not the perception, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0052par0869	...and then we can close the sentences. We have to protect our citizen here. Now, when the valued congressman talks about the performance system -- I'm speaking to his own statements -- it means that physicians do unnecessary interventions, they take every gallstone they see, they take every almond they see, they endoscopy everything they see; it needs to be corrected.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0054par0871	Mr. President, what does this have to do with bullying? You mean there's no such thing? Do you have to answer every congressman's speech?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0052par0872	I'm making it clear now. Mr. Congressman, I'd like to report to the health worker...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0054par0873	Mr. President, what does this have to do with bullying? What does it have to do with the Minister? Is that how he did it?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0052par0874	...the upstanding hand should find it in front of the Ministry of Health in the first place.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0054par0875	Is that what he did?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0052par0876	In the presence of the entire nation, the hand that stands against the health worker is in this country...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0054par0877	They turned the doctors into machines!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0052par0878	...will find the Minister of Health of the Republic of Turkey in the first place.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0054par0879	And he hired the citizens to do something unhealthy...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0052par0880	My respects.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0055par0882	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0054par0883	Why do you have to answer everything?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0055par0884	Now, it's Necdet Ünuvar, Adana MP who wants to speak for the AK PARTI Group.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0054par0886	You guys don't appreciate criticism. I mean, it's a literary review.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0056par0887	We responded in a manner of speaking.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0054par0888	Sir, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0057par0889	But that's it, Mr. Secretary. He's taking the fall, too.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0058par0902	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0059par0903	Just a moment, Mr. Ünuvar... one moment...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0060par0904	I mean, when you guys get up and turn the doctors on, and the citizens do it, and yours doesn't get picked on, so...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0059par0905	Mr. Vural, please...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0060par0906	...are you being bullied by what the gentleman says?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0061par0907	We haven't provoked doctors, we've never done anything like that, and I've never...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0060par0908	You always do.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0062par0909	Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0060par0910	Every time you talk, there's always trouble in the House.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0062par0911	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0063par0912	It's okay, we're nice to each other.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0062par0913	Mr. Unuvar, please...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0064par0914	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all on behalf of the AK PARTY Group.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0065par0915	You're the source of the problem. Of course, it's about Palandöken Pharmaceuticals.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0066par0916	Talk to me!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0065par0917	I will.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0066par0918	Tell me if you're young!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0067par0920	Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0065par0921	Who the fuck are you? Who are you! Mr. President, take it back! Let him take it back!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0067par0923	Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0068par0924	You'll get your word back!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0065par0925	Let him take it back!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0068par0926	What promise? Mr. President, I invite you to explain.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0065par0927	You'll get it back!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0068par0928	You'll get your promise back!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0069par0929	Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0065par0930	You'll get it back! Mr. President, he'll take it back!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0069par0931	Mr. Secretary, please make a statement.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0065par0932	The young man will take it back!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0069par0933	Mr. Vural, please sit down.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0065par0934	If you're a boy, you'll take it back!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0069par0936	Mr. Vural, have a seat.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0065par0937	Mr. President, take it back.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0069par0938	Have a seat, please. I'll get the Minister to explain.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0070par0939	You're talking to a party's Deputy Group President, Mr. Secretary. Please, have a seat.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0071par0941	He'll take it back!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0072par0942	Have a seat, I'll talk to the Minister. Sit down, please.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0071par0943	Take it back!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0073par0944	You're talking to the Deputy Group President of a party, behind which there's national will.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0072par0945	Please sit down.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0074par0946	He's talking to the congressman.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0073par0947	No way!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0072par0948	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0075par0949	You'll get it back!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0072par0950	Mr. Vural, please take a seat.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0076par0951	What did he say? He said Palandöken Pharmacy, what's the big deal? You know, it's just, you know, it's just, you know, it's
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0072par0952	Let's do this...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0077par0953	What are you getting into? What are you getting into?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0072par0954	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0078par0955	Please take back the word "sinking."
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0079par0956	Do you even have a claim?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0072par0957	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0080par0958	I'm not taking it back, I'm returning it to you.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0072par0959	Have a seat, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0080par0960	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0072par0961	Have a seat, please.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0080par0962	Okay. Yeah.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0072par0963	Mr. Secretary, please, what did you mean by that word?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0080par0965	You've been such a boy in your life!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0072par0966	Fix it, please, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0080par0967	Have you been a boy?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0072par0968	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0081par0969	Mr. President, take the minutes. Let's see what's been going on. Let's see how it goes down. You're talking about everything, don't you want the Minister to answer?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0080par0970	Oh, come on! Get off me!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0082par0971	What report, brother? You don't trust Congress, do you?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0083par0972	Mr. Aydın, please...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0082par0974	Is that a criticism?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0083par0975	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0084par0976	If he wants me to, I can show him my manhood.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0085par0977	Show me!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit01spe0083par0978	Congressmans, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0083par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 99th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of parliamentary research motions for increased violence against health workers. The government is in place. Now, on behalf of the groups, on behalf of the AK PARTY Group...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0086par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0083par0006	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0086par0007	Mr. President, I request that Mr. Secretary take that word back about that word he used. Therefore, I urge you to grant this opportunity to the Minister.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0083par0008	Mr. Vural, here's what we can do. When I read these transcripts, the conversation goes on. Of course, everyone knows what he's talking about. It's up to you...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0086par0009	Sir?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0083par0010	Everyone knows what they're saying, what they're saying, and what they're saying, if you want, I can read the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0086par0011	Read it.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0083par0012	I'll make you both a promise, then.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0086par0013	Sir?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0083par0014	Then I'll have to promise both of you.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0086par0015	No, sir, we don't have to take any promises. Mr. Secretary, I'll take that back, and if there's anything I can do, I'll do it.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0083par0016	Then I'll read the transcripts, if you'll excuse me. Minister of Health: I'm making it clear now. Mr. Congressman, I'd like to report to the health worker... Mr. Vural: Mr. President, what does this have to do with bullying? What does it have to do with the Minister? Is that how he did it? Mr. Secretary:...the hand must find it in front of the Ministry of Health in the first place. Mr. Vural: Is that what he did? Mr. Akdağ: In the presence of the entire nation, the hand that stands against the health worker is in this country... Mr. Vural, they turned the doctors into machines! Mr. Akdağ:...will find the Minister of Health of the Republic of Turkey in the first place. Mr. Vural, I'd like to ask your citizens... Mr. Akdağ: My respects. Mr. President: Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Vural: Do you have to answer everything? President: Now, it is Necdet Ünüvar, Adana MP who wants to speak for the AK PARTI Group. Mr. Vural: You don't understand such criticism! I mean, it's a literary review. Mr. Akdağ: We responded in a manner of speaking. Mr. Vural: Sir, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know... Mr. Korkmaz: But let it be so, Mr. Secretary. He's taking the fall, too. Mr. Ünuvar, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs... Mr. Vural: So while you're getting up and turning the doctors on, while the citizens are doing it, you're not being bullied, but you're being teased by what the gentleman says? Mr. Vural, please... Mr. Akdağ: We didn't provoke doctors, we never did, and I wouldn't... Mr. Vural: You do it all the time. Mr. Secretary, please... Mr. Vural: Every time you talk, there's always trouble in the House. Mr. Akdağ: No problem, we're very kind to each other. Mr. Unukvar, come in... Mr. Vural: You're the source of the problem. Of course, it's about Palandöken Pharmaceuticals. Mr. Akdağ: Talk! Mr. Vural: I will. Mr. Akdağ: Tell me if you're a boy! Mr. Vural: Who the fuck are you? Who are you! Mr. President, take it back! Let him take it back! [[WHO will take it back from the AK PARTY ranks?]] One moment, Mr. Lawmakers, please excuse me. We're reading the transcripts here. Mr. Secretary, please... Mr. Akdağ: You will have your word back!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0087par0052	Who the fuck are you, sir? I'm taking back the word "Lan" back.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0083par0053	Okay, I promise you both. Here, take your seat. Open it, please, into the system.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0088par0058	So I take that word back. The Minister will withdraw his testimony, otherwise I have something to say about him. If...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0083par0059	Mr. Secretary, please. Mr. Vural has taken back his word, word, or sentence. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0089par0062	Sir, this call was already used after Mr. Secretary's statement. Therefore, it is not right to evaluate the individual.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0090par0063	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0083par0064	Don't take it back, it means you're sorry. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, and please take it back.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0090par0067	Mr. President, in tension, from time to time, we can form different words or sentences against each other. I think Mr. President was proud to take back the word "Lan" Tell me if you're crazy too. I take it back.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0083par0068	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Now, on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, Necdet Ünuvar, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Unüvar.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0091par0085	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all on behalf of the AK PARTY Group. The World Health Organization defines violence as being able to use or threaten its power against another person, another group, a community. Violence can arise in different disguises and different areas. The last time we saw his ugly face was in Gaziantep. As a result of a vicious attack on Gaziantep, we lost a brilliant young brother of a physician who was just in the prime of his profession and his life. Our pain and sadness are great. I'd like to remind you that the operator, Dr. Ersin Arslan, was a young physician at the age of twenty-six. He was one of the breast surgeons in Turkey who did not find maybe 100. She had a wife who was four months pregnant. She had a bright future and beautiful dreams. I pray for the mercy of God to this dear brother of mine, and for his wife, and for his relatives, and for his health workers, and for his patience. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as you know, I am a physician. I was deeply moved by the events that had happened, and it was very sad. I'd like to share my feelings with you on this occasion. There are some professions in the world that you can't do without giving it your due, such as teaching, leadership, military and medicine. It's possible to extend the list. The physicians, as you know, are called doctors. The doctor means the Greek teacher. He's a sort of teacher; he trains young physicians, he educates people, he educates himself. The doctor is also the leader, he leads the community to follow him. From time to time, it brings constraints to your life, interferes with your quality of life, says, "You have to eat this, it's good for you," and society agrees. So medicine is medicine, leadership, teaching. I've been a physician in almost every position in my 28 years of medicine. I've lived with the bittersweetness of what it is to be a physician. But a physician knows not only what doctors are going through, but what health workers are going through, but also what they're doing. All health workers are happy with their patients, upset with their patients. He works, he tries, but sometimes he doesn't. Medicine is such a profession that sometimes you heal, you become guilty, sometimes you try, sometimes you bring it back from the dead, you have a disability. He gets criticized for not being able to run the patient, he does what he can to heal the patient, but his patient can still die, and then, of course, there may be some sad incidents, the courts, the lawyers, the defendants, the plaintiffs, the plaintiffs, the doctors, the medics. That's what's hard. Of course, in this frame, Abdurrahim Karakoc - God forbid, Mr. Karakoc is currently in the hospital, and his condition is better today than today's -- he described the citizen-doctor relationship very briefly with doctor-doctor poetry. I'm not going to read one of these. The doctors in this quad don't exist right now. And the burden of the citizens is less, thank God. On this occasion, I pray to Brother Abdurrahim, and to God for speedy healing, and to get him up at once. Dear friends, it's not right to do evil against evil, but it can be understood, it can be fulfilled, but to do evil against good is an inhuman act, an abomination, a murder. That's where the doctor's challenge begins, and at the same time, some people are trapped in the light of divine destiny and in the sense of justice. Of course, speaking of justice, there's no way to cross the legal Sultan Süleyman. What the law said was, "There's no viable object in public like a state/to be like a breath of health in a state jihad." So health is that important. Of course, doctors sometimes make themselves miserable for their patients, and marriage lives have a hard time watching their children grow up. In fact, Erich Segal describes it as the people who sacrificed their marriage and missed the unique opportunity to watch their children grow up. Of course, sad statistics show that doctors often suffer worse than their patients. Because no one can repair a broken marriage or correct the morality of children who have been destroyed by his father's constant neglect. Erich Segal refers to it as "Erich Segal." Deputies, health care agencies and health workers are places with immunity even during wartime. In this regard, I would like to remind you once again how important it is to look after our fellow physicians and health workers, who are the guarantees of our healthy futures. Therefore, meeting in a common denominator, regardless of politics and policy, is of serious importance to the welfare and healthy future of our society. But I'm sorry to say that in today's talks, we also see that things are mixed up. It's really inappropriate to have a relationship between performance practice and violence because we know before performance practice. I've been a doctor for 28 years, and I have friends here who are doctors, brothers and sisters. I can safely say that performance and patient time have increased, pleasure has increased. So I'd like to point out that it's not appropriate to be associated with the new health system and the environment of violence. In a study conducted by the Health-Sen Union of Officers, studies on violence in health said that poor communication is 6.3%, mostly 34.5%, and 13.8% waiting hours, 12.1% of the health worker's excessive work density was effective. Of course, yesterday, the chairman of the main opposition party, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, also brought a different approach to the case, and it was a truly interesting approach. Mr. Kilicdaroglu's speech has the full text here, but I'm not going to read it -- he says that if the 17-year-old child had received his grandfather's salary, he wouldn't have done it, and here, of course, he's expressing what happened in this country. So I can tell you very well that it's really mixed up. So, dear MPs, we all have to be careful and responsible. From time to time, mistakes made in protest risk feeding violence. Obstructing a citizen's health care for a protest can undermine the love bond between a health worker and a patient and lead to new violence. At this point, we also have important tasks for our press. Without good study, news without justice can lead to misdirection. We always have to remember that fighting violence together is a struggle that must be fought altogether. In doing so, we, the family of health, will continue to serve our people without fail, and we will strive. Honorable MPs, physicians, and all health workers are heroes who witness the most intimate situations that have ever been present in the most difficult of times, in the most painful moments of human beings. So we have to show very close attention to the people that their white coats express this to, and we have to be near them, but unfortunately, violence sometimes comes to us in the field of health, and even the most dramatic, the most painful picture in health, but in the family, in traffic, in sports, you know that we are often exposed to violence. In view of violence, it is not only a problem of health but a problem of the whole of society. In this context, it has to be one of the main goals of exploring and revealing the causes of violence. And I hope that in this research commission, the work with scientists, scientists, sociologists, psychologists, leaders of opinion, and pioneers involved in society, will help us to reduce the consequences of this issue. Of course, violence, valued lawmakers, were present yesterday, present day, and will exist tomorrow. It's not just today's problem, it's not just Turkey's problem. Our Minister has just expressed the example of England, Canada, Australia, America, Germany, France, but I don't want to burden you with numbers. Our ministry and our group's position in setting up a research commission on this matter is indeed a very brave attitude because it is not the courage any government can afford to argue in a field we are most ambitious in. Perhaps it will require additional measures as a result of these commission studies, but our Ministry of Health and Minister of Health and Minister of Health say that even though at times the level of satisfaction is up from 39 to 76 percent, even though we give our physician's rights beyond compare to the past, we give our health workers the attention we need, the interest we need, to the past, to the extent that it's not a degree, it's not a level. Perhaps these new additional measures, the measures or proposals of our valued lawmakers will surely increase that satisfaction. It's very important to handle it in all its dimensions, to examine it, to review the measures. Not one of the paramedics' nose bleeds is worth four months' work for the House Research Commission, so we don't want any of our paramedics bleeding their noses out, getting a thorn in their feet. Perhaps on this occasion, we doctors know this very well, but the opposition of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and all the MPs, will have to understand how selflessly the health workers work, how hard they work, and how hard they do, and how much they do. That would be an extra benefit to our commission. They're with us on our most difficult day. Then why shouldn't we be with them during their hard time, and they deserve it so much? Of course, it's a problem we all need to get our hands on. I believe that violence can only be overcome by understanding each other more, by loving and empathy, and by creating these bridges. And you can't ignore the elements that feed violence. I've just talked about this -- I've just talked about the press -- and I have to advise the media to be really sensitive, with ratings anxiety, sometimes in places where we don't know where it's going to be, not to do the news that we don't know where it's going to be, but to be more careful when we're doing these stories. Of course, violence can never be accepted from anyone, from whomever. Because the doctor doesn't guarantee that every patient he operates on will recover, and he doesn't have the power to heal the patient. If the physician had such power, no physician would have spared that power from any patient. Medical responses may sometimes not be completed as requested, the patient may not be cured, he may get worse, he may even be lost. This doesn't mean that the doctor is wrong or that the paramedics are wrong as a team. Of course, if a physician or a health worker is thought to be wrong, it is clear what needs to be done. So I think that violence will never be a way to seek rights, and I think we've all already admitted that it's a crime, but we need to make it very clear to the community. The lack of punishment for such events will also provide the basis for similar events. From time to time, we consider them physicians, and communication problems can be involved. Communication is not only between the violent one and the violent one, but in the later stages, we see that there may also be a lack of communication between our police and our law enforcement forces. Therefore, it is wise that right-seeking methods should be clearly explained to the community and that society should also know the criminal aspects of what is being done. There have been some really important work done in England. In his speech, our Minister has just mentioned a number of additional measures to be taken. I think that doing so will prevent some of the events that have happened in the field of health, whether they're unwanted or not. Dear lawmakers, social problems require total social responsibility. We need to put our political feelings aside and take a common step in these matters, because this country exists today, and tomorrow it will exist, and we have a better responsibility to hand this country over to the people we're going to hand over to. Of course, we all have a political view, and we all know that we have the ability to look at an event in different ways, to interpret things differently. Let's put aside our opinions and abilities in this regard, and let's approach this as a problem for all of us, and that's the only way we can come up with a solution. Paramedics work for all of us, and we all have to stand by them. So, dear lawmakers, it would be in this country's best interest to put together a collective responsibility, but, of course, we're not supposed to sign a day ago to prevent violence and be irresponsible to punch a doctor in the hand we signed the next day. So no matter who comes up with this, we're going to have to go all out and tell them. Of course, I have to say that the Turkish Medical Association and the Sound Syndicate, which have been cut off on everything, have not heard much either. So, depending on whether it's a or b party that did it, or whether it's a or b person who did it, we're not gonna have to change our minds. So we're gonna have to put the responsibility on someone else here and not let ourselves get away with it. Therefore, it is also necessary for us to act in common in this matter, as well as our responsibility to this country. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Mr. President, we owe a great deal to our healthcare workers, who willingly perform health care wherever our flag is raised. Our fellow physicians and health workers, who keep watch at night while they sleep, who look forward to the recovery of their patient, deserve much love, respect, and tolerance. For a nonviolent health environment, I desire that you, our valued lawmakers, also put their hands on the stone and take a bold step forward in the path that will resolve this problem as a non-political problem. I know that's the way the health community wants and wants. And I also know that we have to pay a lot for the selfless work of health workers. Hopefully, as it has been so far... our Minister has already sincerely desired the establishment of this commission... because it has been expressed in the context of the health system and the healthcare worker of violence or non-existence -- in the context that I express it in the face -- since then. I hope the work of these research commissions will at least reveal that these criticisms are irrelevant. I know that as a person who's been a health secretary for five years, both our citizens' satisfaction with the past and health workers' pleasure increased, and the bridge of love between them was built stronger, I feel it, I've seen it, I've lived it, I've lived it, but with this research commission, at least -- we'll have friends from outside of health, or we'll have friends from the opposition -- they'll be discussed, they'll be discussed, and there'll be a good report on that report, and with a great tolerance, our Minister here, he'll be sensitive to the issue of these decisions. I wish that the commission of research would make our health workers happier, and our citizens healthier, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0092par0116	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0093par0117	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0092par0118	Please enter the system, Mr. Hamzacebi, to understand your words. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0093par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Speaker, in his speech, our chairman, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, used a sentence he used at the group meeting yesterday in a different way than the purpose of using it. Mr. Kilicdaroğlu was killed by a patient who was operated on by a doctor in Gaziantep, and was killed by his grandson. If the person who committed the murder had taken his salary, he would not have committed this murder. He used the statement in a different way that I could sum it up in the form of Gaziantep. Therefore, I would like a word, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0092par0122	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi. Please, in two minutes...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0093par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, we're discussing parliamentary research motions issued by all political party groups regarding preventing violence against health workers. In all, there are ten parliamentary research motions, six of which belong to the Republican People's Party Group, and I find it positive that the Republican People's Party Group has met at such a point today -- of course, other political parties have proposed. I hope and wish that the Parliament's research commission will take the necessary precautions and that the executive body will take those precautions. While discussing violence against health workers, there is another aspect to each violent event or many violent incidents. There is another drama on the other side of this case, after the death of the person who was operated on, behind the murder of a young child, who, of course, killed a doctor. This family is broke, poor, low-income. Mr. Kilicdaroglu made a statement highlighting it, which means, of course, this violence must be prevented, there is no justification for violence, and we absolutely deny it. There is no right to violence in any way, but there is also poverty in our country, our people are significantly poor, short-income, unable to afford their daily living. Mr. Kilicdaroglu means that these people also need that kind of income, or he doesn't use a sentence that means anything else in any way. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0094par0131	Thank you. Now, it's Gaziantep MP Mehmet Candy who wants to speak on behalf of himself as the motion holder. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0095par0147	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, before I begin my words, I salute you all. Congressmans, we're wasting serious time drafting these research motions. And we don't do this to keep the House from working, just for business. We follow the same method of drafting motions in the House. But I see, I mean, when the opposition party gives such a research proposal, it's always viewed with this view, is it for a deterrent? It was September, when our friend Aytuğ, Mr. Mersin MP Aytuğ Atıcı, made the motion. That motion didn't come up either. We brought him up on March 14th in this House. We said: "There is increasing violence in health. Even if it doesn't, even if it stays the same, even if it does, there's a lot of violence in health, and you have to accept that. This is violence against health workers, against physicians, against nurses. Let's take a precaution, let's set it up, let's do what we can. We made a motion and brought it to the House on March 14th, and unfortunately, it was not accepted by your vote. Dear friends, now, perhaps in October, if we had set up a commission like this and worked, brought it up in October, tried to solve these problems, maybe our friend would be among us today, and I think that's actually the key. Please, we need to be more serious about these research proposals that we've been given, and we need to work on them, and we need to work on them, and we need to work on them.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0096par0150	The day of the violence at Esenyurt State Hospital!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0095par0151	Yeah, yeah... Now, members of lawmakers, the transformation in health began at the beginning, as our president mentioned that day, with good hopes, some things improved. We have to call them right, of course, but I'm afraid in recent years, the transformation in health has turned into a business in health. In health, hospitals are now a business, and, unfortunately, patients are considered customers who come to this business. There's been an increase in the number of private hospitals. As the number of private hospitals increased, big companies started building them. As private health companies opened, after a certain period of time, these hospitals were unfortunately given contributions to get money from the citizens. These contributions have grown to such numbers that they have reached 90 percent. Thus, a citizen who is currently going to a private hospital is unable to pay for these contributions if his economic situation is not stable. So most of the patients began to return to the state sector, to the state hospitals, which started to pile up in these hospitals. Unfortunately, the transformation here in health has actually brought up a very serious problem. What was that? And that's... we always say: "How happy are you with your health? " The question is asked to the citizens. I'm 76 percent satisfied. But the same thing is being asked to the doctors, and Mr. Minister here, he knows -- doctors say: "We are not satisfied with 85 percent of our services." Dear friends, I'm afraid in recent years we've tried to raise a group of doctors who only prescribe, test, study. We began to form a group of physicians who took money from the performance, fought for it, worked hard for it. But we've started not caring about protective health care in our country, which is very serious, but actually I've mentioned this before, and I'll tell you again, there's also an increase in diabetes, hypertension, chronic obsessive lung disease, tuberculosis, and cancer, because we don't care enough about protective health care right now. So we're doing something wrong. There's no point in looking at too sick, treating too many people, writing prescriptions to a lot of people, studying and testing a lot of people. The best indicator in a country, if chronic illness is increasing, there is trouble in that country, and scientists say that the next generation will be shorter than you. What is the reason for that? Unfortunately, we don't care enough about protective health care. And most importantly, as everyone said earlier as we were talking here, political polemics have caused increased health violence. What did we say? We accused the doctors of being greedy. What did we say? We'll bring in a nurse from out of the country. You're incompetent, you can't do it; we'll get you a nurse from abroad. What did we say? We said we'd get you a doctor from abroad. Unfortunately, not to the doctor, but to the nurse. He said, "Mr. Prime Minister." All of this, unfortunately, is considered a political polemic issue and one of the most important reasons for violence in health as well as violence today. Mr. Unüvar has criticised the actions of our fellow physicians here. Dear friends, when will physicians act on a day like this? A doctor friend of ours has lost his life, he has increased in health as much as he can, and that's what's happening to the public every day, which we know, as the Minister said, is just what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about in the press, what we're talking about. Doctors and health workers are pushed around every day in every hospital; they live in them; some are reflected in the press, some are not, but many are not. For that reason, I also appreciate the sensitivity of fellow physicians, especially the Turkish Medical Association. So, what are we going to do to succeed in health? If we're sincere here -- this commission, of course, will work, and I'm sure it'll do something successful -- it's actually necessary to do this: First, we have to add violence in health to the Turkish Penal Code. If we don't add that, this commission, unfortunately, will only be filing a report. Again, a measure must be taken to ensure the future of the remaining relatives of our colleagues, particularly Dr. Ersin Arslan, who was attacked in the line of duty. The Ministry needs to do that, too. Again, the doctor's complaint line, whose short name is the Ministry of Health Communication, needs to stop being used as an act of violence to medics and physicians. It also needs to be explained that the line has been stopped until its function is reviewed. If we're going to take precautions, we have to do these things. All health care agencies -- public, private health services -- need to be assessed in terms of violence by the working health and safety approach. And I need the Ministry of Health to do that as soon as possible. Politicians, ministers, high-level officials should also give up rhetoric and styles that target physicians, medics and devalue them. If we're going to get anything out of this commission, we're going to have to do it very quickly. Mr. President, good lawmakers, violent attacks on doctors who have been increasing in recent years have become a social problem. The reasons for this situation are too deep to be explained simply by the security dimension. Reasons such as lack of sufficient knowledge of patients' rights, economic problems, sociopsychological expression, lack of adequate security for hospital employees, and, more importantly, the only cause of the defects in the health system is being expressed by the authorities. The sad events in our country are upsetting health workers, demoralizing work and wearing down health care personnel. Medical personnel continue to be subjected to physical and verbal attacks by patients and patients. The lack of a police station within the hospital campus to intervene in such events, the police in hospitals are only interested in cases of criminal activity that have been taken to hospital, and the lack of sufficient authority of security officers in hospitals, usually subcontractors, shows how serious the security level is. The quality and peaceful introduction of health care is an essential principle for the development of public health. The fact that the medical staff and especially the doctors are trying to provide services by acting on the idea that they will be attacked will also prevent them from contributing to the development of public health and adequate contributions. The lack of efficient work of doctors will result in a serious loss not only in public health but also in the country's economy. In particular, in recent years, the violence inflicted by the patient's death on the doctors has caused them to escape from their professions by being disabled, even if it does not result in death, beyond minor attacks. Doctors often stress that they are threatened and unable to do their jobs. On this occasion, I wish this commission the best of their efforts, and I wish you all a healthy day, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0097par0167	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0098par0170	Mr. President, members of law, I salute your grand delegation. I have been promised a motion to investigate the reasons for the growing health problems in Turkey every day, as part of the Constitution's 98th request for the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 104 and 105. I'm basically taking the floor here today because of what happened to our brother, the doctor who died, and, by the way, it's especially the treatment of health workers these days. We wouldn't be here today discussing this motion if it were possible to consider it an isolated event. But I especially want to say, what did all the political party congressmen do? They've already made a motion about it. And the reason they're recommending it is obvious. There's been a motion for that, for that, because there's something wrong with it, that it's starting to feel. But what did power do? He didn't approve of it, he wasn't allowed to discuss it, he wasn't helped. What was supposed to be done? It had to be really helped... even though the motion was only for a little while, what was done? There's been an incident, and we, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, have agreed to discuss such an incident today. The situation is so dire that the MPs, the petitioners, are trying to move the problem, the power is trying to move it, the situation is getting tense when everyone is trying to be satisfied, Mr. Secretary. If so, what do we do if we're all going to take it? We'll discuss it. There's one particular thing I'd like to express here. Look, what does power propose? Opposition, research, he says. But for what does power make a motion? Power is powerful, it does. You argue about it, we investigate it, it's a separate issue, but what it is, power should already know about it, it should come and explain it to the opposition here; you say so, but even though it happened as you say it did, that's the main reason. You say that. Look, on April 23rd, some of the AKP's group's co-chairs said that the sessions would be quiet this week, and they spoke sincerely, and we, as Vice President of the Party, were talking about it at the moment we were in protocol. But what do we do about a very important matter of the country? We've been keeping it open. We brought this up, we're talking here, we're talking in public. This is what you call the healthcare area, where we are most adopted by the militia. Look, I'll tell you what happened to me. When I went to a hospital, what did I see? In the emergency room -- this has happened before -- it was reported that there was a demand for money from a citizen who came in due to a business accident, and there was a disturbance. I didn't get involved as a congressman, I just listened and tried to calm it down. On that day, a friend from AKP, who was a member of parliament here, ran to the hospital before I left, and said, "Haluk Ayhan is doing a show." He comes in here and he keeps talking from this stand. I said to Mr. President, "What if he's not telling the truth?" Why isn't he telling the truth? I was there, I saw the incident. It's like he's seen it. I said it. I mean, there may be feelings, there may be urgency, but there's a case. Health is one of the most important sectors in the country. If the health workers are exposed to violence, those fellow residents who are already victims, those doctor friends of yours, that's not enough. What you call "import." Does the doctor, the nurse, the health worker, show that our friends are doing well? It's a real pain in the ass. Now, we've brought the family medicine system. You say, "Everything is wonderful." You say. One of the four cities was Denizli. It was before the election, a line piled up -- couldn't go to the hospital, people -- in the family physicians, got up in a hurry about the tail incident. From a family doctor to a hospital, not a hospital. But, look, I studied health economy abroad, I studied health care financing abroad, health insurance, and I didn't see a patient going outside the hospital without going to a family doctor in the family medicine system. Now, you go to college hospitals, public hospitals. What? People are trying to get right there. I just took care of it today. If the patients' problems had been solved, if the patients had not been troubled, if their satisfaction, as you say, had been as remarkable as you say, these people would not have called us, you. I asked Mr. Secretary of the Plan Budget Commission upstairs, and I said, "Tell me the difference between this family medicine and socialization." I'm not satisfied with my answer, I'm telling you. That's where the records are. Only in the bureaucratic treatments, he said, "What's happened? There's been a decrease." However, bureaucratic treatments have increased for me as a family physician. Now, he's trying to sell the service. It's been auctioned off. In Western countries, in England and so forth, this system is applied, but what does the system have in its own way? He's making an audition as they pass through the stage. He's taking care of the troubles. I'm a friend of yours who went and had an operation while I was collecting this. So this, in your sense, is not a solution. The country needs a doctor, you say. So, what have you done, what have you done to solve this incident? It's the tenth year. There's trouble. You rejoice when a dentist comes from 67 to 50. I mean, is it possible to imagine that a dentist who looks 50 mouth-to-mouth a day could get results, that he'd be a psychologically comfortable person? It's not. I'm afraid it's not the right approach for us to express them, compress them, try to get results, in such a way that it's imperative that we do so, whatever comes your way, you'll be done by nightfall. Now, we're building a hospital. The Minister is here. HE was in charge of TOKI. We're trying to get the hospital to build a hospital wherever we want. We move those hospitals from places where the hospital is, so where are we going to replace those hospitals? We're building a mall, so we're making urban life paralyzed. Members of parliament, there is no doubt that relations between the health levels of the countries and the levels of economic and social and cultural development are important. What does it mean when countries are like this? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What does the country's health care demand and supply show? It'll show you how he's doing. These conversations are really important, but given the amount of time, it's not enough. I hereby pay my respects, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0099par0188	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. (10/118) is a Free Special, Manisa MP on behalf of the main motion holders. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0100par0192	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I pray for the mercy and patience of God to Ersin Archlan, whom we had lost in action in the event of Gaziantep, which devastated all of us, which was very sad for all of us. Like Ersin Arslan, I remember once again all the health workers who had died of various causes and accidents in the past, both in the line of duty and in the line of duty, while trying to keep people alive, with mercy and gratitude. I find it extremely troubling in Van, that the behavior of Dr. Oguz Eroglu, who was subjected to violence by one of our parliamentary deputies, who, in particular, had been committed by a member of a member of a party hoping to bring peace from this parliament. Especially when it was about violence against the physician, when all opposition parties were very critical about it, and the ruling party blocked its ears, and the ministry didn't care enough about the issue, such a move became a life kiss for the Ministry and the ruling party, which was distressed by their policies. But the murder at Gaziantep showed up. You know, in cowboy movies, all of a sudden, there's a wind blowing, and it's quiet, and then the doors are closed, and the windows are locked, and no one's really saying anything, but you know what, there's gonna be a murder going on right now. Everybody knew about that murder. He knows about the murder, but there's such an authoritarian government in cowboy towns that no one dares to say, but it doesn't happen in democracies. There are people in democracies who talk and talk. Here's the silence in that cowboy town, where Mr. Minister gets very angry from time to time, where a member of the ruling party has just been critically criticised by occupational organisations, rooms, trade unions, NGOs, and they say, "Bad things are going to happen here, take precautions. They said that, unfortunately, but you didn't listen to them. You said, "If so, would we get 50 percent of the vote? If so, the national will would not have chosen us." You said, "The level of satisfaction in health care has increased." You said, "Look at the people before us." You said, "You have succeeded in creating the past." And it is clear to me that you have ignored all of these warnings, showing that a patient who went into labor in a sleigh or on a cart, on a donkey's back, the doctors who went to the patient were like this before, now much more beautiful. But not only did he have vocational rooms, occupational troops, unions, but also the opposition. During this parliamentary period -- as we have just seen in Mr. Minister's presentation -- the Republican People's Party tried to bring it up with a motion to investigate the issue. Look, today, a total of 14 people are going to talk about it. No one from the ruling party, the AKP, will speak out of these 14 people -- except for Mr. Minister and Mr. Ünuvar, who speaks out of obligation to speak for the ruling party. It's the Civil Code. Because you want to talk today, let's not talk, let's not argue yesterday. You're supporting the same motions that you rejected with your votes today, but the one who doesn't have a mark in the blend has no face in the harvest. Let this matter be investigated once. You did not say. (HPP clapping in rows) Let this matter be investigated. This is where you rejected the motions we made. Last example: On March 14th, Mr. Aytuğ Ater spoke here on our motion. After that, MP Ismail Sun -- a physician himself -- and Ismail Sun -- spoke about the issue in a total minute and a half -- said that because health care, which was 2.8 per cent in 2002, reached 7.5 per cent today, so that there was a lot of intensity in the past, of course, because it began to apply these patient rights for the first time, some patients may have used a number of rights against a number of health workers, because they didn't know what they were doing. But now, because of the increased consciousness, the violence of health workers has become even less, and the physician and the citizen are not separated, he says. Then he went on to talk before me, and since he was a professor at the university, I suppose you used to pay teachers to go to colleges, he said, that's why he criticizes this system. Mr. Haydar Akar of the opposition ranks warned him, "Why are you talking like this, brother?" He did not listen to this warning, and ended all that he had said about it, and he said, "With all due respect, this violence will be reduced even further. Mr. Health Minister's work continues on this matter. The zero tolerance application for violence will kick in in April, so the violence of health workers will be completely reset. Therefore, I say that I am against this motion, and I pay my respects. He said, "He has come down." In all, you have a one-and-a-half minute conversation where he made a similar speech, and he said, "The opposition wants to keep the agenda busy." For the other eight and a half minutes, he told me how good it was to be in health. As the doctor did not mention violence, as this did not refer to the measures against the doctor's violence, let the public not investigate this matter. What do you need? Unfortunately, I'm sorry to say that Mr. Ersin Arslan was supposed to lose his life, and now he has to put together all the motions in the same context, and we think you should come up here and set up a research commission. Mr. Secretary, don't excuse violence. He says -- some criticism -- he's quite right. But one way to justify violence is that when you look at it the other way around, it's the same thing in England. It's the same way to justify violence, and it's so wrong. We're going to talk about the right-seeking awareness there, the obstacles to the search for rights, the social sensibility of the crime, the efficiency of the feedback mechanism, of course, but also the definition of crime. In a universal sense, violence means the extremeness of emotion and behavior in the sense that the world understands and understands in the sense of England. A health worker in England, when a person raises his voice to him, takes out a form from there, fills in a form called "F7" and fills in it, sending his name, his name, and him. This is listed as a case of violence. Whereas we have the doctor running away, chasing him with a stick, going to the gendarmes, the police are going to take it away, but the reports don't go on record. Perhaps the most important and important part of our support is the Minister's speech today saying that these cloaking cases will be handled. We don't consider the doctor violent until he's eaten a knife in the stomach, and something's broken in the head. Not just doctors, but all the staff in the medical field, until the ambulance driver, in Turkey, they eat blasphemy, they get violence, all the health workers. Especially since my colleague, the pharmacists, took a kind of turnout before the ruling party arrived, today I counted ten different kinds -- last time I counted them, and the Minister objected, counting their money one by one, and finally we were right. He's surprised that that's all he is -- Minister of Labor and Social Security -- he's getting ten kinds of money, at the pharmacy, at the hospital, at the salary. Sometimes the pharmacist, who knows about the cut on his salary, sometimes you examine me, how do you charge for an examination? The pharmacists are subjected to verbal violence and attacks every day. There are pharmaceutical lawmakers in the hall, we don't stay. If they say, "The citizen is satisfied with this system." If they say, "There's not a fight every day at the pharmacy, it's not really going to come to a fight, but we're dealing with one-on-one in an emergency room where the police are in the pharmacy, so it doesn't go on record. If they say, "I'll get out of here, I'll get my word back." When this persecution at the pharmacy increased in sensitivity to violence towards the physician, my colleagues showered me both on social media and on the phone, did a pharmacist have to die, too? Every day at the pharmacy, we get victimized by the problems that this health system puts on us that have nothing to do with us. They said, "We have a concrete example." Last time, in the pharmacy of Ms. Jale, the head of the Çanakkale Pharmaceutical Chamber, a schizophrenic took the drug a month ago -- I don't want to tell you about the psychological connection between the schizophrenic's medicine here, you know very well -- when you go to get it, you're going to pay for it by the state, you're going to take it by the box, instead of this drug. When you say, "The patient comes in, a few minutes later, he comes in with a shovel, and pharmacists can barely save his life. It is correct to set up a commission on this matter. We're right where we are when we meet in the same place. Before other lives disappear, before other health martyrs appear, I wish we could all look for a solution to this matter together, with respect.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0101par0203	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0102par0204	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0101par0205	Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0102par0206	Mr. President, the Minister has mistook my speech for...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0101par0207	When did you speak, Mr. Sun?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0102par0208	He referred to my speech on March 14th.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0101par0209	Please sit down, Congressman. Tekirdağ MP Candan Üşeşer on behalf of the main motion holders of 10/252. Here you go, Mr. Supreme.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0103par0213	Mr. President, he mentioned my name...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0104par0214	Mr. President, he mentioned your name in a different way.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0101par0215	Your Honor, I'll ask for the transcripts at the time.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0105par0216	I'd like to, too. My name came up.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0106par0217	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the motion I made four months ago to establish a parliamentary investigation to determine the reasons and solutions for the violence of health workers. No son is easy to raise, no profession is really easy to perform, but physicians are really hard to grow. Here's one of them, our dear doctor of his family, our colleague, Dr. Ersin Arslan. He was killed in the line of duty last week by a patient he operated on. From here, I offer my condolences to God, his family, and all the health workers. We all know that nothing happens without health, that we start with health, and we end with health. This is why medicine and health care, which will continue as long as it is the oldest and the most human on earth, is important. Health is one of the most important areas that determines the future of a society and also affects its future, but unfortunately, in our country, full-time, under the name of the Change in Health Programme, performance practices, public hospital troops and law enforcement, health care has suffered quality and quality loss, and the working areas of physicians and health workers have narrowed down, and there is no peace of work. 84 per cent of physicians are unhappy with their health care, their quality, but the minister says 90 per cent of the patients are satisfied with this health care. What a conflicting, menial contradiction this service is indeed! If you measure the quality of health care only with patient satisfaction, of course, if you see the patient as a customer, a hospital as a business facility, you can also assess the quality of health care with patient satisfaction. Most of the physicians are unhappy and desperate, but despite everything, they act in order to correct system failures, to serve better, trying to attract public attention to these shortcomings. The transformation process in health continues quickly, but the confusion and uncertainty in the health system continues to increase. We all experience that the services are not qualified, that they have lost the opposite, that there is no equality in the health presentation. The main victims of the health sector are the patients and health workers, with the policies and rhetoric of the AKP ruling. Doctors who work in health care become targets with statements they don't deserve. The profession of medicine, one of the most dedicated professional groups in the most difficult and difficult of situations, has been discredited, wronged, and even subjected to murder, in accordance with the political futures and interests of the current government. Not a day goes by that we don't have reports of doctors exposed to physical or verbal violence from different provinces. In Adana, our female colleague was subjected to violence by the patient he warned not to speak abusively. In Tekirdağ, a colleague of ours was stabbed by unknown persons. A chief physician was suspended from his post for failing to meet his MP at the door while looking for a patient in Manisa. A doctor in Diyarbakır has been beaten by the governor for disobeying his words. A doctor was beaten to death on the grounds that he was late interfering with his wife and child. Another female doctor was beaten to death by relatives, and an expert doctor Ersin Arslan was stabbed to death by the grandson of a patient who lost his life in Gaziantep. Why do physicians and health workers go through all this? We know that health workers are 16 times more violent in the field than other businesses. In all research into violence against health personnel, social violence, sociocultural levels, health policies, the effect that reduces the patient to a customer, the lack of emergency services... it's possible to extend that list. Doctors' most exposed verbs are murder, injury, threats and insults. What about work density? Infrastructure, technological inadequacies, system failures, healthcare sector returning to patched bundles with the Health Transformation Programme, regardless of any negative healthcare workers, doctors in particular are being blamed, targeted. There's no room in the ICU, no empty beds, no blood in the service, waits too long at the clinic, the patient doesn't heal, the medication gets allergic, the electricity cuts, the hospital floods, the criminal is known to be a doctor. Like this and so on, a lot of system failures and flaws in the health system, false rhetoric becomes an attack on the physician. So, what's been causing so much violence lately? The health minister says I'm going to take the doctor's hand out of a citizen's pocket. At the opening of a hospital, the prime minister ended his term as a doctor. If you don't like it, just walk away. Who's in charge? Thousands of honest, honest doctors who go through a difficult, long period of training, day-to-day, vacation, weekends, work without the concept of overtime, take serious stress in every emergency surgery he does, take risks, just try to do his job, and want to earn the legal money he deserves in return, and face all kinds of challenges for the moral and professional reputation of this job. Those words are not what physicians deserve. I regret to say that this and many similar events, there are similar phrases, but I will not go to very distant days and years. We've had the YGS code scandal. The young people claimed their future, protested the code and went out on the streets. He accused the young of being the Prime Minister, the provocacator. He said, "If I want to face these students, I will raise 10,000 students." In the wake of the statute of limitations of the Sivas massacre, the victim, who shared his sorrows, was sprayed with pepper spray, water. The Prime Minister said, "Good luck with this statute of limitations." Look, today, women's violence, women's murders are terrifying. Those who pursue their rights, their labors are dragged to the ground. The opposition can't stand a single sound. Opposition MPs are being kicked on the floor. You open your mouth with pepper spray, water, baton! Last week, a colleague of ours, a doctor, was killed by a patient in the line of duty. His colleagues went out to the streets, saying, "Enough is enough! You know what the Prime Minister said? He said he condemned the doctors who shared the pain of his colleagues. Today's Turkey is condemned for violence, not violence. To those who seek their due, to those who seek their labour, pepper spray, water, baton! Congressmans, don't these words confuse you, or do they make you sad? Mr. Prime Minister, the YGS stands in the face of those responsible for the code case, not to answer, but to our children who rebel against the theft of their labor, who claim their future. He says, "Good luck to the statute of limitations, that he will find the defendants of the massacre who have not been caught and bring them before the trial." The prime minister condemns his colleagues crying out in pain, rather than condemning the violence of physicians, one of the most sacred, selfless professions. Our country is the only country to be condemned for violence. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I don't know about you, but I don't understand these words or my heart. Violence has no justification. We're against any kind of verbal or physical violence. We can't accept that health workers are discredited, health care providers and health care providers are compromised, we don't, and I condemn all forms of violence and supporters of violence, no matter who it comes from. He's got health care, a doctor, a nurse, medical staff and patients. It is possible to improve the quality of health care by correcting the working environment by giving physicians, health workers, patients, victims, and not being unhappy. I'm calling on our Minister to make sure that no more employees are exposed to violence and no more victims of the murders of physicians who have made a principle of human service. It's a virtue to turn back from error. I wish that you would return from this Change in Health programme, and immediately the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health have given up on these unfair remarks that make it a target for physicians, and I have done so. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0107par0231	Thank you, Your Highness. Mr. Sun, here's your request. What do you want to say? I've got the system open. Here you go. What do you want to talk about first?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0108par0233	Mr. President, the previous Orator...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0107par0234	Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0108par0235	Mr. Special, yes, he mentioned that my speech, very few of them, was violent to health workers and that I didn't defend them here. I want to make this right.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0107par0236	Two minutes, I promise, Mr. Sun, from the stand.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0109par0238	Okay, sir, he said it was misunderstood, it's been corrected.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0108par0241	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. And before I begin my words, I strongly condemn, curse, and pray for the mercy of the great God to Dr. Ersin Arslan, who died in Gaziantep, and for the condolences and patience of his relatives and health community. Of course, health workers work with a great deal of self - sacrifice. I'm a physician, I'm a physician for twenty-two years, and we condemn violence to healthcare workers, and we never want violence to happen to health workers. But in the previous research proposal, speakers also discussed health workers, not talking about preventing them, but mostly the health policies of our Ministry of Health. So in response to that, I've had that conversation, and therefore, violence to health workers doesn't just exist today, it used to exist in the past. This verbal and physical violence began when I was working at the SEC hospital, and the patient who came through every door said, "We pay your salary." This used to exist, but now it doesn't exist, and so we think that violence should be prevented for healthcare workers, and that's what we've been talking about when our health minister started coded in white, and that's why their relatives and mental patients do it more often, not the patients who treat the health workers with violence. It is true that we have increased health care and thus increased the number of examinations that we had in the past to maybe 2...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0110par0245	I thought I was saying it wrong. I thought you went out to answer that.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0108par0246	...and we've doubled the number of surgeries.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0110par0247	Is it reset?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0108par0248	So there's one thing you've forgotten:
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0110par0249	Did you or did you not get this group to vote for you that day? Let's vote no. You said no. I thought you were gonna answer that.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0108par0250	Health workers here are our citizens...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0110par0251	All that talk... all that talk...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0108par0252	...but on the other hand, it is our right to protect the rights of a citizen who has so far been denied the freedom of rights. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, we will protect their rights. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0111par0257	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0112par0258	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0111par0259	Just a moment, Mr. Special. Mr. Akar had a request for a statement.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0113par0261	Don't tease me, I want a promise. Mr. Ozgur said my name in his speech...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0111par0263	Who picked on you, Mr. Akar?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0113par0264	Mr. Free...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0111par0265	Is that so, Mr. Special? What'd he pick on you for?
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0113par0266	Let me speak with a citizen's eye for two minutes, the doctors talk all the time.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0111par0267	Thank you, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0114par0268	You'd better invite me to be serious, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0111par0269	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0115par0270	Mr. Bane MP, Ismail Sun, said that I twisted his words, that he spoke about the matter long enough, but that I distorted it, but he never responded to those claims during his speech. I don't want a word, just put it on the following reports: his speech is here, just like I said. Only a minute and a half is relevant, and half the time, he accuses him of asking for money to invest in the university because he's the teacher who spoke before him. The work of the minister of health is also good in the following part. In April, we hope to reduce it to zero. He says, "No." And he invites his group to vote, and I underline that.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0111par0272	Thank you, Mr. Special, it's already in the transcripts. On behalf of the main motion holders, Nurettin Demir (10/253) is a member of the Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0116par0288	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we've been discussing increasing violence in every area and especially healthcare workers in recent years here today. I hereby salute your high council and our dear citizens. Mr. Secretary, look, there are two reasons why violence has increased so much, because it's heavy: the first reason economically, don't ignore it; the second is the point where transformation policies come in health. I'm going to illustrate, Dr. Arlen, in Antwerp. The 17-year-old boy knows his grandfather will die of cancer. He wants help, he says: "Mr. Doctor, I already know this is going to die, but don't say it's dead, don't report it, because I'm in no condition to get along. I'm getting help from the government, I'm getting help from my grandfather, and he's got no future. And because he doesn't have a future, and because the hospital says he's dead, and when he leaves, when he doesn't get the money out of the bank, he kills the doctor. In fact, it's not the doctor who's been stabbed there, it's the government. Unfortunately, in a country where so much poverty is growing, such violence is for the greatest reasons. Secondly, it's an important point, of course, that the contributions paid by the citizen have been greatly increased recently. The Minister of Health said we would cut the relationship between the doctor and the patient. We were very happy, we really enjoyed this practice, but then we found out that he had a relationship between the patient and the doctor, and he started taking knife money from all the patients, almost all the patients. No matter which health clinic you go to, no one gets out without paying for the knife, starting with at least $5, and making a payment that goes up to this 40 lira. He used to go to a private practice with money and pay for it. Now everyone has to pay. Don't think it's small money, he's making money from my pack. Multiply 74 million times 5, 10 or 40 and find it. Not just regular clinics, but people who go to the emergency room pay. Look, how does it work? Your stomach hurts, doesn't it? What do you do? Where do you go at night? You can go to the emergency room. When you go to the E.R., the sign is green if it's gas pains, and when the citizen goes to the pharmacy, he sees that money has been cut out of his pocket, his medical money has been cut off, and he's returning to the doctor with violence. Now, I'd like to give you another example of these applications, the transformation practices in health, here. Dear lawmakers, honorable lawmakers, a doctor is trying to explain to the Chief of Medicine that he's a little late in the morning in Urbana, he's turned upside down, there's a fight, and in the afternoon, he's angry, how can the doctor go and serve, of course? When he doesn't understand himself, and the result of a conflict or a fight, the Chief of Medicine finds out that 30 or 40 of his own people, his followers, his cult, have come and tried to beat him up. No government, no government, no protection. The Minister says: "We have increased the number of protections. " Sir, if you increase the number of protections, if you put a pistol in each physician's pocket, unfortunately, you can't solve it because of these economic and health-changing policies. Mr. President, where did the high-profile lawmakers get violent in health? Why did these people always attack, kill, and kill their health - healing doctor, nurse, health worker? What happened to this community in the past, who was grateful for her doctor, who brought her eggs from her village, her gift, to the doctor? During Nusret Fireworks Hodja's time, during the socialization, we can no longer see the public's gratitude for the doctor who gave health care to his people on horseback, in the snow, in the winter, in the middle of the day. Dr. Mete Tan reached the pinnacle of professional pleasure during the time of his occupation, a much more successful full day than today, and the coup d'état of September 12th ended health and happiness in the field. The peace between the coup leader's speech and practice and the patient-medicine's public health worker has begun to deteriorate. Everywhere he went, the Kenan universe provoked the people with words like my officer, my general, so that they could not escape. In the following years, such rhetoric increased, especially after 2003 and then after the Prime Minister's contempt and contempt for healthcare workers, the healthcare worker was not given enough value and attention to the Health Transformation Project. His constant greed of the physician has brought him to the point today. Isn't it the best example of the pain that Mr. Prime Minister gets when he says I don't give them needles? But such rhetoric has grown and grown, as in the case of snowballs between the public and the patient, and has brought violence in health to the point of speaking and researching violence in health today. What happens in practice is not proportional to the patient satisfaction that the Ministry of Health has expressed as going up to 80 percent. If the patient's satisfaction was 80 percent, the patient and his relatives would have to leave by thanking them instead of arguing, beating, or even killing. Patient satisfaction polls are filled by quality units, not patients, because they affect institutional performance. Health personnel are requested to fill the satisfaction polls with personnel. These polls are not polls filled with free will. I would like to say to Mr. Secretary and his staff in particular, to sum up the basic elements of the attacks and violence: the misinformation of citizens in the Health Transformation Programme, the unskilling of health workers, the conflict of professions and different employment models, the citizen's attack on health staff, the fear of politicians and the punishment of health workers, the lack of equipment for providing services in health care, the lack of equipment, the lack of proper staff, the failure of legislation, the management of legislation, and the management of staff of staff, and the long constraining of health care workers, and the fact that the administration of human beings is not subject to long-restraining and long-terming of health care services. Unfortunately, there is a huge distinction among health workers. The thought of a citizen who drove his wife to Adana at Şanlıurfa Susurluk State Hospital again says: "I want to take my wife back with me." And the offer is: "If you leave the union you belong to, we will do what you want."
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0117par0296	It's slander, slander... it's a big slander!
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0116par0297	I'm afraid that's very common. People are under pressure, they're in trouble, and they can't say what's wrong with them. He said something about TTB, our AKP MP friend. Go and see the pages of the TTB. The president of the World Medical Association and the president of the Medical Council recently arrived. Both Ankara and İstanbul have been told of the difficulties the physicians suffered. Unfortunately, physicians, health workers are really the quietest of Turkey. I especially wish you a good evening by saying here that we will give you all the support we can as a group on behalf of our group, in order for violence to be eliminated. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0118par0302	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Now, 10/254) is Muharrem Ilk, MP of Erzincan, who wants to speak on behalf of the main motion holders. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0119par0306	Mr. President, I've made a promise of violence to the people who work in health. I salute you all. We hear about violence in health almost every day on a news channel. Of course, there's one thing that's really important... that's what's not heard. There is definitely violence every day at the health institution, in all institutions. Of course, there's a lot of forms of violence in health; there's swearing, there's insults, there's humiliating behavior, there's verbal threats, there's battery, there's injury, there's killing. With our friend Ersin finally murdered by a 17-year-old, I'm afraid we've come up with a new agenda and we've started discussing it. When you think about violence, of course, you have to see some facts. When we get up here, all we have to do is look at the political side. I worked for 18 or 19 years as a GP, mostly in clinics and emergency rooms. First of all, why is the patient going to the emergency room, especially recently? Patient goes to the ER for two reasons: 1) When he leaves in the morning, he leaves so I don't wait too long at the clinic. 2) He's leaving so I don't have to pay for a $5 contribution. So there's a pile-up of patients. We have physicians who are sick from 500 to 1,000 a day. Of course, sometimes when we observe, especially when we look out the window, when the patient comes in from the outside with a nice, cheerful, laughing person, just when he comes in, the patient begins to pout and get angry. And that's because when I go there, I wonder if I can be examined or not, so I can act a little nervously, and I'll be hard, and I'll be able to get a physical. That way the patient... your citizen's, of course, is starting to increase. Of course, we've made it so familiar with the citizen that the officer goes and asks for a report, and if he doesn't give it to him, he insults the physician, and no one makes a sound at the end of the year; he writes it down again, he goes to the pharmacy, the doctor goes to the pharmacy, the doctor gets blamed, the trustees crush the doctor, the prosecutors crush the doctor, the governor crush the doctor, the governor crushes the doctor. Watch the old Turkish movies, as doctors as gentlemen, as people who grow up to be like Hizir, watch the new shows, as people who are involved in organ mafia in new shows, who are dishonest, who are always thinking about their own interests somewhere. We need to draw a lot of attention to these movies in these recent years. And society is starting to absorb that. On the show, watch it again, see the cops, the cops use doctors like order man, giving orders like order man, and doing it that way. Of course, that's how society sees doctors as they watch them. But, of course, that's not the real reason, it's the policy of transformation in this health. As long as we insist on these policies, Mr. Secretary, unfortunately, violence in this health will never end and will continue to increase. That's why we have to give it up now. There is a fire in the kitchen. They said, they cried, you laughed, you didn't take it seriously. Absolution rights were acquired, and you didn't take it seriously again. When they raised their voices, you pulled them in different directions. When the medical staff spoke to the Medical Office and the unions specifically, you pretended to be your political rival. Of course, the weaker he gets, the stronger he gets, the more he pours it out in the doctor's office. As a reflection of all of this, we began to see public violence as a way of life. So people brought it and gave it to us beautifully. When we see the primary causes of violence, there's a heavy load of patients in the clinics and the ER. It makes patients nervous to have less time for patients. The fact that the patient's head tests and other examinations are difficult makes the patient angry that they're taking too long. Economic crises, poverty, alcohol and drug addictions also confront the patient with the doctor. We need to see these flaws as soon as we set up this commission, if we're going to do it. You put the free market economy into practice without limiting it. I'm afraid you've turned a doctor-patient relationship into a business-client relationship. Now we're looking at the patient as a client so he can perform. Instead of the quality ministry, the Health Change Program, which you boasted so much about, destroyed the rights and dignity of medicine, and set up a ground where people would attack. You have shown the physician as the sole responsibility for all inadequacies. He wants to do tests, no tests, he's not in the hospital, he's not in the hospital, he's in charge; the film will be filmed, the machine is broken, the doctor isn't done, he's held responsible; 500 patients are in the ER, he's in the ER, he's in the ER, he's in the MRI, he's in the hospital, he's looking for 500 patients, he's looking at a thousand patients -- he's getting violent; he's sending patients to intensive care; he's not in the hospital; he's looking for another hospital; he's not getting an appointment; he's dying, he's being held responsible; he's not in intensive care; he's not in the hospital; he's not in the hospital. So all of this brings the physician directly to face, and the most interesting part is that when 86 percent of the violence against the physician is done by sick and sick relatives, 14 percent are made by management and executives. We saw the last of it in the incident at Gazi University. Despite the violence, physicians still don't complain. Why aren't they? They call it patient psychology, I'll drive. They're afraid I can't get results. They think, for some reason, physicians don't complain. The physicians, of course, know very well that the person responsible for this is not the one who did the violence, but the expression of poverty, poverty, suffering from socioeconomic causes. Economic woes, sociocultural problems, education are the most important, the leading. I just said it again, and I want to say it again, because we have to be very careful with the commission, if there's going to be any results. Why aren't the patients satisfied? They're bored because they've waited so long during the examination, because they think he's been delayed, purposely delayed, and because he's in financial trouble when the difference arises, they're angry because his tests are waiting day by day, and they attack the doctor because they're waiting day by day. What are we supposed to do in a health transformation? We've caused poor and inferior service production, so we'll have to give it up. We need to give up the performance-based system. We're not supposed to let the doctor face the patient. All this work that we're going to do, if we don't put up with it, like I said, we're not going to get any results, we're going to get more dissatisfaction. We've put a lot of emphasis on privatisation, and we've given special incentives to private hospitals as we've cut down all investments in public hospitals. So the public hospitals, which suffered the most, were sadly troubled. Another important reason is that health sector administrators and political officials see and show physicians as a cause of health problems; we have been made a direct target. Political ruling and supporting executives blamed physicians for structural shortcomings in health, lack of resources and the resolving of problems, accusing the public of not serving well. So he brought it back and confronted us again. Now we need to know that all health care is being privatized under Project Change in Health, and that's what we think the goal is. In doing so, unfortunately, physicians and health workers are subjected to violence. The attacks against health workers should be considered a public case -- the Minister told me, and I think it's a good thing -- the Ministry of Health should run it personally. In public speaking, we must strive to cultivate youth, not hatredful youth, but respect and concern for others. The ruling and health administrators must quickly review their attitude toward our physicians and give up. We have to give up the import practice. If they don't look at you, we'll bring you an imported physician, or we'll fly you out of the country, and we'll have you operated there. We don't need you. We have to stop trying to give you his perception. With the Full - Day Law, we must end the chaos at universities. We shouldn't look down on our teachers like that, our teachers raised us, brought us up to this. We're not supposed to see medical rooms and unions as political rivals, we're supposed to be working with them. The Public Hospital Association is certain to have more violence, more violence, as it will be built here for profit if it is implemented. There's absolutely no need to give up the application of the Community Hospital Association. You have to give up your cut of the contributions. The status of the citizen is already present, and he's bringing this in and he's costing it here. Especially in family medicine, the patients began to act as if they were slaves to family physicians. If you don't do what I say, I'll leave you and go to another doctor. Fearing that the number will fall, the physician does what he says or is subjected to violence when he does not. There may be bad people in every profession, but I don't think anyone has the right to put it all into a job and defame our sacred profession. In particular, health workers are told that the wages they receive are too high, except for a few exceptions. That's definitely not true. Whatever it is, it really needs to be explained to the citizens, because it's hard to imagine that a citizen's physician gets a terrible salary... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you're being paid on my taxes. He says. Therefore, this must be taken care of. I hope it works out for the best, thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0120par0337	Thank you, Mr. Light. On behalf of the main motion holders, Ali Öz is the MP of Mersin. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0121par0341	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on a motion to investigate the violence against health workers and physicians. I salute your high council. Violence has become an increasingly common trend in all areas of social life. Although the health environment's problems are now known to everyone as obvious to the system, sources that point to physicians as targets and fuel the rhetoric also fuel violence against physicians. The day doesn't pass, so a physician may not face an act of violence that he doesn't deserve. Doctors, including emergency services, intensive care units, are subjected to violence that sometimes results in death almost every day. Doctors are forced to look at patients far above what they will look at every day and are targeted by negative working environments. With performance-based income, it is impossible to obtain real efficiency from those who are tired of it. Despite trying to receive two or three times more patients than previous times, and their expectations have been answered, we see that physicians have been subjected to violence, insults, complaints. For the last five or six years, we've been hearing more and more news about the violence against physicians. The issue is finally on the agenda of the Ministry of Health and the Union of Turkish Medical Medicine, while the violence that has increased year after year is now on the red alert. The increase in violence against physicians among the most respected professions in the community is among the issues that physician organisations care about. We are strongly condemning the nationalist movement group of violent and violent attacks that our doctors and paramedics face, who distribute and use their knowledge and experience to heal their patients. My condolences to our recently lost friend, the deceased doctor in Gaziantep, to God's mercy, to his family, and to all the health workers. I also strongly condemn the attack by a political party by our doctor, who was an EMT at Van Regional Education and Research Hospital. Dear friends, today's policy has reduced with respect for the physician. Without looking at the working environment and the doctor's social conditions, the direct physician is now being subjected to verbal taunting. If you're not a woman, I'll throw you out the window. You'll have to give me this report. Why don't you write the medications? You work here with our money and get paid. Pink paintings of power in health care, stories of virtual success that are incompatible with reality, have damaged the doctor-patient relationship and opened the door for them to fall into one another. AKP's policy preference has turned patients and relatives against each other. Today doctors, nurses and paramedics are restless and unhappy. With patients, their families are tense and stressed. Statistically, as our fellow lawmakers who have spoken before have expressed, our fellow physicians and health workers are increasingly exposed to violence. If we're really trying to solve this problem, we're going to have to establish the reasons for violence correctly, and we're going to have to form a common mind in solutions. When asked to investigate the violence against physicians on March 14th, and research of Parliament at the point of solution proposals, unfortunately, it was evident that insufficient sensitivity was not shown in this regard. In particular, when we look at the general population of our society, we see that the violence that women have experienced, unfortunately, is more common among our colleagues, especially to female physicians. Of course, by the way, every AKP MP is proud to say that the health ministry is often talking about increasing the level of satisfaction in health care, that the citizens have achieved in their ten-year period of power, but it is obvious that we can't get results if we just take the satisfaction of citizens to prevent violence in health and to seriously assess the measures taken at this point. In particular, it is necessary to point out the answers to these questions: "Have your physician given you enough time? " The answer to this question is yes, by 40 percent. Has your physician examined you enough, has he listened to you? Asked, 43 percent say yes, Are you satisfied with the diagnosis and treatment your physician gave you? The question is answered by 35 percent. In a similar study, however, you should not ignore the results of a survey on health workers and physicians in particular. In this survey conducted by the Ankara Medical Chamber for physicians, the answer to two questions is very bad. One of them was asked: "Do you have hope for the future? " The proportion of positive responders is only 7.3 per cent. But there is a more dramatic question: do you think your patients are being given qualified and adequate health care? The positive answer is around 13 percent. Polls and observations among physicians show that those bearing hope do not exceed 10 percent of the future. The ruling air is like this: we've done health reform, we've fixed everything, everything's fine. When the patient comes to the health centre and sees that this is not the case at all, he sees that the doctor is responsible. Other than that, the prime minister's term as a doctor is over. I don't even get a doctor's injection, it paralyzes him. Health workers have never encountered such an unloved, disrespectful, underappreciated health minister and his administration. All of this has come to us as a process that threatens the safety of our physicians and other health workers and leads to the death of a colleague. The Minister of Health needs to tell people that problems continue in the field of health. Please know on your way to the hospital that everything is not so smooth in this country. And it's really not that easy to accomplish. In the past, patients would have come knowing that. We'd know there's trouble in hospitals, there's a line. Today there is again, it is expected. But now, when he listens to the evening minister and everything comes up bright, without problems, with the prospect of a system, the patient is disappointed, and we regret to say that it turns into violence. Dear lawmakers, what could be more important than the fact that those who talk about democracy culture and advanced democracy don't even tolerate the democratic act of a colleague being killed by an attack? If you put the medical staff and the physician in front of the patient in the first place, you will have accepted the result in advance. No one can teach them the responsibility of physicians to citizens. The physician doesn't need that. Whatever the circumstances, giving health, healing, the spiritual peace of mind, and the physician's conscience of being a means to return to life are the only decisive reason why this system works and works. Our physicians must be protected. Otherwise, health care will go back, not further. The key to preventing violence in health is to increase professional reputation, especially physicians, to listen to the problems of physicians, and to give up all logic by myself, to improve working conditions, to train and conscious citizens in health and written media, to express that the main goal of those workers there is not to kill, but to live. Police measures and increased sentences cannot solve this issue. We can only solve violence at this point if we can make health care equal, accessible, affordable, underprivileged, non-absorbed, public pleasure in receiving services, at least -- reprinting -- as happy as those who serve them as they are. Otherwise, putting X-ray devices in, taking special security measures, finding trained private security guards, ignoring the basic problems that lead to violence in the coming years and time, I'm afraid that violence against health workers and physicians will increase its dosage, and I salute the High Assembly with respect.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0122par0364	Thank you, Mr. Oz. On behalf of the main proposal holders, Mustafa Baloglu is an MP for Konya. Here you go, Mr. Baloglu.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0123par0368	Mr. President, I have made a personal commitment to the motion to prevent violence against medical workers. I salute your committee. On this occasion, first and foremost, I offer my condolences to our dear colleague, Dr. Ersin Arslan, whom we lost in the most productive period of his life last week as a result of a brutal murder in Gaziantep, to his family, to our health community, and to our nation. Again, I wish my dear colleague, Oğuz Eroglu, who was struck by Van. I consider people who do these things as people who have not had a share of human, conscientious and moral values, and I hope that such unacceptable events will never happen again. Dear lawmakers, violence happens not only in health workers, but in all parts of society, in every professional group; it's a social injury. For example, we've all read and heard about the teacher who was stabbed by a late student last week, and we often experience such events. The more unacceptable these incidents are, the more my hand is, the more unacceptable it is to give unfair criticism of our Ministry of Health, our government, and try to collect political rants. It is unfair to ignore the distance we have traveled in health care along with the Health Transformation Programme, which our government has launched, and to ignore the past, and to ignore the services that have been done in such cases. In order to assess the claims of increased violence against healthcare and healthcare workers, it is useful to review the applications of the Change in Health Programme. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the Change in Health Program, have assembled our hospitals under one roof. The SEC, the BUG-KUR, the pensioner's chest has been removed, and the citizen can receive services from any hospital, including private hospitals. Can you say that it fuels violence? Of course not. Again, our citizen has been released from the line of medicines in hospitals, and all citizens, including green card holders, have been able to buy medicine at any pharmacy they want. Can you say that it fuels violence? Again, in order for citizens to receive health care, the obligation to carry documents, transfer papers, and so on has been removed, and has been granted the right to apply only to any hospital with a citizenship number. Can it be said that it fuels violence in health? Of course not. The freedom to choose a physician for a citizen to receive services has been granted, so that an opportunity has been given to examine a physician that a citizen can most easily communicate, express himself, and trust. Can you say that it fuels violence? Thus, where will I go, a citizen who has applied to the emergency room in fear, anxiety, and panic, or who has had an emergency trauma? Will this hospital take care of me? Without worries, such as anxiety, anxiety, and panic. Is it possible to say that such practice fuels violence in health? Again, from the time in the past when citizens waited hours for ambulance services and were asked for money from ambulance services, we now moved to a system today, within minutes of our ambulance, even our helicopter ambulance, even our plane ambulance -- planned from centrally -- to the center of the trauma of our own disease, or the most effective treatment. Can you say that it fuels violence? Again, the central dating system has been launched in our hospitals, and our citizen has the right to receive an appointment from his home, from the hospital in Turkey -- or from the Internet -- and he can be examined only the next day or the next day, if he wants to be examined by any doctor. Can it be said that this practice fuels violence in health? Again, with full-time practice, it is possible for a citizen to go to an examination and receive services from the doctor he asked for without having to pay. Can it be said that this practice fuels violence? Again, the resources of health care institutions and institutions have been greatly expanded, where a citizen has been provided without having to go to another institution and be examined. Is it possible that such practices fuel violence in health? Again, the physical conditions of our hospitals have been greatly improved, the protection of patient confidentiality, and housing opportunities, hotel services, have been brought to modern standards. Can you say that these practices fuel violence? Guidance services have been initiated at the hospital, making it easier for citizens to receive services. Can it be said that this and such practices fuel violence? With the best planning of human resources between the east and west of the country, the doctor's workload has been tried to balance, and the public's access to health care has been facilitated. As a result, our citizens have turned to health care in close proximity to applications in Europe. The application rate for the annual physician has increased by about three times. Is it possible that such practices fuel violence in health? via ALO 184, the citizen is able to deliver any distress to the Ministry of Health and relieve his distress. Again, home care and home care have been provided for our bedridden, disabled patients who have no access to health care, and there are teams to care for our patients, and these patients have received home care. Can such practices be said to fuel violence by the application of transformation in health? Again, with performance practice, physicians' incomes were increased, more employees' more earned, a system designed to compensate for the sweats of physicians under heavy labor. Thus, the demand for increased services of a citizen who has more access to health care has been tried to be met without becoming a chore. The physicians want to be preferable, which causes physicians to try to please the patient. Can you say that it fuels violence? Dear lawmakers, we see that our government has carried out many structural arrangements in health care with the Health Transformation Programme, which it has implemented by accepting health care as a basic human right. In the past, unimaginable achievements have been achieved to provide better quality, fairer and easier available health care, and as a result of these developments, our citizens' satisfaction in health services has increased from 39% to 76 per cent. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are being observed doing a number of actions in the face of recent events, rather than reflecting the opinions and demands of a number of ideologic behaviors that some civil society agencies represent, especially in the face of the events that we've been experiencing. I refer them to the common sense of our respectable people, the common sense of our health workers. We see that the Health Transformation Program and the allegations of increased violence against health workers must not be correctly evaluated. The services are obvious. It is unacceptable to ignore them and to give unfair criticism to our Ministry of Health and our government. This error must be returned at once. On this occasion, I ask that the motion to investigate the prevention of violence against health workers and the commission to be established be the answer to our problems, and with the help of our valued lawmakers to resolve this violence, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0124par0391	Thank you, Mr. Baloglu. Now (10/257) is an Istanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel on behalf of the main motion holders. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0125par0395	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yeah, well, first of all, I'd like to offer my condolences and my condolences to all health workers for the loss of this hand. In fact, all the talks and motions presented indicate a great deal of health workers' problems. I'm going to give a positive opinion on the establishment of a parliamentary research commission on violence against these health workers. Yes, we've just had a chance to listen to the Minister here. Since 2003, health workers and organisations have been calling upon the government, the Minister of Health, against the policy of transmutation in health, but what are the government and the Ministry doing? The prime minister, in particular, accuses health workers of ideological behavior and continues to be humiliated and humiliated. He now remembers the Ministry's medicine, which expressed his regret over the death of Dr. Ersin Arslan, but when the Prime Minister blamed the physicians, he couldn't think of defending the physicians while attacking the medics. And here, I suppose, after all this, we're all wondering if the Prime Minister will apologize for all that he's said, as we've been remembering a lot lately. You know, doctors don't even know how to shoot a needle. Here I'll bring in a doctor who'll work for 150 bucks from out of the country. Instead of taking precautions when problems arise, the mercenary and security head, once again finds no solution but to entrust doctors to private security guards, subcontractors. Mr. Secretary, here are health workers, yes, to act, but not to interfere with public health care. Don't worry, health workers and organisations are here more than the Minister -- in these layoffs -- defending patient rights and their futures, securing them, thinking. So what we're going to see here, once again, isn't the aggression of a few sociopaths behind all of this violence, as the Minister explained, and there's no need to make opportunisms and hammocks over my dead Doctor friend, and there really is no need to build solutions and conceal responsibilities. What is the responsibility and reality behind this violence? Our CHP deputy friend has just told us that behind this death, poverty and the need to seek help. That's what's behind the aggression of that young boy who's a murderer. The source of violence is the government's policy and rhetoric; there are provocative, insulting rhetoric, words that are the means to cover up problems. There's been a lot of talk about my transformation in health. They've always said, especially the Union of Turkish Medical Medicines, that healthcare transformation kills trade in health. They've said, and they've killed, and they've killed. Privatisation, opening, incentive policies, importing the private sector and service from the private sector, a wide variety of, you know, sending patients to imaging centers, encouraging them, all of this -- that is -- the capitalist bosses' greed for money -- has left out no health nor health rights, no ethics, no ethics, no ethics, all of that. In subcontracting health care and the Ministry of Health is now the largest subcontractor, with 150,000 subcontractors. Many of these people, although most of them, are in the health care class, do not continue their real work as a service equivalent to their actual education, and work guarantees are threatened and put on the street every day. More than 400 subcontractors have been put at the door at İstanbul Çapa Medical School. It was said that performance practice and competition between physicians, unethicalness, escape to ease, and, as a result, escape from the hospital. I've had meetings at a lot of college hospitals, and I've shared my observations here on February 14th with you on this General Assembly. The Minister responded in the speech there. Of the 90 thousand doctors, only a thousand are related to the practice. Why do you feel uncomfortable about it? He complained, but we see that the insensitivity remains. Yes, we need to complain and see the problems here, the problems that have really grown, we need to see that there is no health with profit loss, with corporate management, with business concerns, we need to get out of it as soon as possible. You have brought from general health insurance to Turkey a well-paid, contributing health care to the emergency services and brought all the diseases with you. Look, in labs, imaging departments, environments with chemicals and radiation, not all health workers have safety, work and safety, cancer-type diseases. Now, I'd also like to point out, dear lawmakers, that one of our fellow Regents has been criticized by all of us for a misbehavior, a misbehavior, more than being criticized, shot, and shot. I'm talking about Özdal Three. Now, let's look at this another way. This is our friend's uncontrollable behavior because of the pain he's in, but another thing is that he's a member of the BDP, he's a Kurdish, and the Kurdish-retributive treatment today is an emotional response to health.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0126par0409	It's pure slander.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0125par0410	Let's get ourselves a little bit of duty and duty here, and let's try to see what's going on here, and I'll remind you of that. Yes, I'll have to ask the government, Mr. Secretary. I thought the public was pleased. What about the patient's satisfaction that reached 76%? Why, though, are these pleased people drawn to violence? Why is he out there looking for a solution? Here are the tasks and calls that the Turkish Medical Association has announced to the Minister, the Ministry of Health, that they once again reminded us of, that they have identified and demanded, that an additional clause be added to the Turkish Penal Code is proposed in the issue of Crimes Against the Health of the People. So I say it is the duty of the House and the Regents to make an appropriate arrangement. The other thing, of course, is that our people should be able to make a response to these policies, which threaten the health of the government and the health of the people -- of course they don't deserve them -- against all of them -- of course, the Parliament's research commission should be set up, but I would like all workers to raise their voice on May 1st to respond to violence in this health, including health workers -- money, affordable, accessible, equal, native language, in order to defend the health of all 75 million citizens. May 1st, in the face of the working class, the workers, the underdogs, the underdogs, the international union, the struggle and the solidarity of the oppressed, to stand out in the squares to defend our demands, and in the face of science, to speak disrespectfully to teachers who defend the health of the people, to have the right to science, to have the health of the government, to raise our voices, to be in the fields, and to give up their policies of transformation in this health, to be commercialized, to be subcontracted, to subcontracted, to the performance systems, to the authority of physicians, to destroy the rights of public health, and to respect all of all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0127par0414	Thank you. (10/258) The final speaker on behalf of the main proposal holders is Orhan Süçük, Khakat MP. Here you go, Mr. Straight.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0128par0418	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I'd like to begin by welcoming all of you with love and respect. First of all, my condolences to the family of Dr. Ersin. My dear friends, I regret to inform you that today I am ashamed to be under the same roof, and I strongly condemn the MP who assaulted a physician. In his speech here, he said to the group of the concerned MP, let's see what you do. I'm going to answer this question with my own insight: If your party group is reacting to the person who beat the MP on the stand, I think it's probably the same way that the group will respond to it, so I don't think it's going to do anything. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a very good saying in Turkish: "When does the wind grow and the wind reap?" When did this wind begin to blow? Mr. Prime Minister, I mix the foreheads of these doctors. It started when he said. And unfortunately, Mr. Prime Minister, we can count this and hundreds of such words from this bench today. And what did the Minister of Health do in the process? I'll tell you that when the Minister took this stand, when he became the new Minister, he made a statement about the Law on Obligatory Service: There is no such cruelty to man. What happened after that? After that, you finished medical school, you were given a new mandatory service. You majored in the rear, there was another mandatory service. And that wasn't enough, you did a side branch, and there was another mandatory Service Act on it. So this man's persecution of man endured 1 to 3. Moreover, before that, my dear friends and fellow physicians were assigned at least to their wives. And this transfer has been turned into a soup. It was this area, this area where the doctors, while the wife, on one side, her husband, tried to serve her children in the country, with the perm all miserable. Yes, my dear friends, on this bench, all my friends, on behalf of the AKP Group, said that the doctors had received money for the knife, and that the Minister had prevented it. That's right, I agree with that assessment, but when it was done, it was as if all doctors were getting money for knives, all of which were treated as thieves. There's bound to be bad apples in a professional group. Today, because three or five policemen are taking bribes, can you declare the entire police community corrupt, my dear friends? But every time the doctors were on this stand, they were declared thieves, undetected. None of us today can deny that this has no effect on the source of this violence. My dear friends, the patients were being held hostage in hospitals. As a physician, I've seen it many times myself. Of course, this app was wrong. Yes, Mr. Secretary has contributed to the removal of this application, and I accept that. But, my dear friends, why would a doctor take a patient hostage in a hospital, what is it to do with you? The doctor's job is to treat the patient, examine the patient, write his medication. You will write as Minister, and you will say to the hospital: "Look, brother, if the patient leaves without paying a fee, I will cut it off from your salary." Then you will turn around and say: "I will mess with the doctor's forehead who held the patient hostage. This is how the doctor and the patient are declared enemies to one another. Congressmans, I don't know if you have any idea or how much a doctor's salary is. However, I've heard several times from the Minister's mouth that a specialist's salary is at least 6,000 lira. Now, I'm telling you that when I resigned to become a 21-year-old medical professional candidate, my payroll was 1,900 lira. Now the Minister will say: they're buying back capital. There are dozens of hospitals in this country that can't distribute decent return capital. So, when these friends are doctors for 20 years, they try to support their children on a salary of $2,000, they try to support their homes, they try to feed them, and we expect them to serve the patient at the European level. At this point, I'd like to ask you to have a little mercy. Friends, a performance system has been brought in. And at this point again, Mr. Secretary said in his last speech: "We're missing things, we're wrongs, we're right." Look, I'll tell you what's missing. I'm a general surgeon. Hypothetically, it's Friday, so I operated on the patient, and I went to my house when the shift was over. Who's gonna take care of the patient on Saturday? It's unclear. Why? Because I'm a civil servant, and Saturday's a holiday for me. I don't have any performance points in return for going to the hospital and making rounds, and I don't have that obligation. I can operate on the patient on Friday and come to my shift on Monday. That's where the doctor's conscience comes in. Although the doctors don't get performance points, they come in every weekend to see the patient day and night, but there's no response, I'm afraid. I hope, Mr. Secretary, that your friends, especially those who serve in the surgical departments, will give you that right from here. My dear friends, doctors, yes, civil servants, but they work in a different status than civil servants. How do they work? You start working at eight o'clock in the morning, there's no such thing as a lunch break, but with the Minister's apps right now, the shift ends at five again as if there's a lunch break at the hospital. And let's skip that, the hours don't end, the doctors are on 24-hour shifts. If there aren't enough attendings at the hospital, you're on watch that night, and you're on shift the next day. So you work 24 hours, plus eight hours. Now, give me some empathy; you've worked 24 hours without sleeping, it's 4:30 in the evening, and the patient comes in, and he says: "You'll examine me. You know that the results of your examinations will not come out at five o'clock." What do you say? Either you won't accept the patient, the patient will fight you in the throat, the shift isn't over yet, it's a long time to five. Or you'll extend thirty-two hours for another half hour and then you'll go home. My dear friends, these practices are wrong. These are practices that have created a relationship between the doctor and the patient today. Gene, my dear friends, a Malpractice law has been passed. Who was asked, how was it done, what was done, is unknown. Doctors are now afraid as they approach the patient. Why? Because they have the Malpractice Act, because if they make the slightest mistake, they won't be able to pay them by working for life. And what did you get in return for that? In return, a health insurance policy was issued. Now, my dear friends, the physician pays half of this health insurance bill himself. Here's the thing: if your car crashes, you get half the cost from the car. My dear friends, this is professional insurance, yes, you're right, this is occupational insurance, the people who do this profession, they serve the Ministry of Health, they don't do their job; if they work in a private hospital, if they work in a private hospital, okay, the doctor can contribute, it's perfectly normal, but why are you getting insurance money from a doctor who serves on behalf of the Minister of Health? What's the motive? It's unclear. Again, a section of patients' rights was established in hospitals. It's the right practice, I admit, but people who weren't doctors were put in charge of these units. Now, here comes the patient. Who's he complaining to? He complains to the nurse, complains to the paramedic. That nurse is calling that doctor, come on down, doctor, you've made such a mistake...
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0129par0435	Thank you, Mr. Straight.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0128par0436	My dear friends, please support this motion, and we will solve this problem together. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit02spe0129par0439	Talks on parliamentary research motions have been completed. Now, I'm going to vote on whether or not the Clave investigation should be opened. Those who have agreed to open a parliamentary investigation... those who have refused... have been granted a parliamentary investigation. I submit to your votes that the commission to conduct the parliamentary investigation will be formed from 17 members: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the commission's working time is three months from the date of the election of the president, the vice president, the spokesman and the clerk: those who agree... those who do not accept... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the commission can work outside Ankara if necessary: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, it's 21 o'clock. I'm taking a break from the merger until 00.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit03spe0129par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 99th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under Disasters, which is ranked in the 2nd place, where we left off from the Ministry, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit04spe0129par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 99th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 223. The commission and the government are in place. The following article has been added to the Law on Privatisation Applications No. 4046, dated 10-24/11/94. "Result 5-Of course, the privatisation of farmers damaged by disasters and Turkey's Sugar Factories Incorporated in their programme.'The Council of Ministers is in charge of delaying or placing its debts on the table." In the name of the National Movement Party Group on Matter, there is no Scholar Light. There's no further demands. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-04-25sit05spe0129par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 99th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 223. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the International Convention on Compatibility of the Border Controls of the Items, which is ranked in the 4th place, the draft of the Law and the Foreign Commission Report. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by 74 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE CONTROL OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE INTERVIEW OF THE LANDS OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE UNIVERSE THE CONTROL OF LOVE'S INTERVIEWS 8 CONTINUES THAT THE AUDIENCE OF THE UNIVERSE HAS BEEN FOUND MADDE 1- (1) The approval of Article 8 of the International Convention on Compatibility of Border Controls of Things, entitled Easing Border Transactions Relations to International Road Transport, has been found appropriate. Vocabulary? No. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. (x) 74 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, the Court's Open Bill on the Compromise of Border Controls for the Compliance of the International Convention on International Highway Transport, The Easing of Border Transactions on Border Transactions No. 8 So, the bill is legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked in the 5th place, the International Transporting of Disrupted Foods Matters and Joining the Agreement on Special Equipment to Be Used in this Transport Act. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed in 77 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 77 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. It's possible that there's a U.S.N.A. on the side of the desert, and... PRIVATE ACTIVITY TO BE CONTINUED IN THIS CONTACTIVE FALSE OF EXPERIENCE It's still a matter of time before we agree on a deal. MADDE 1- (1) The International Transporting and Special Equipment of Disrupted Foods Matters, dated September 1, 1970, was appropriate for us to join the Agreement on Special Equipment to Be Used in this Transport. No promises. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, the Open Bill of the Law on Disrupted Food Matters for International Transport and Our Participation in Special Equipment to Be Used in this Transport Act has come to an open vote: Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. We begin negotiations with the Highway Traffic Convention, which is ranked in the 6th place, and with the Ministry of the Law and the Foreign Commission Report, where it is appropriate for us to join this Convention in the Completing European Agreement. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 139 rows. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 139 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. He's not going to be able to handle this. REPLICATION OF DRAFT CONTINUES THAT WE HAVE BEEN APPLICATED MADDE 1- (1) was approved on November 8, 1968 in Vienna, with the Convention on Highway Traffic (P.A.) on 1 May 1971 in Geneva, where the European Convention of Highway Traffic was completed by a withdrawal from the Convention. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you one minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, it is the clear vote that we are eligible to join this Convention in the Completing European Agreement with the Convention on Highway Traffic: Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. On Thursday (April 26, 2012), the decision to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order is made at 14 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00, and I wish you a good evening.
