tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're going on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2013 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2011 Central Management Computation Bill. We're having a round of interviews today according to the schedule. After the tour, it will be discussed until Article 8 of the 2013 Centre Management Budget Law. The 12th round includes the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Public Relations Agency, the President of the Privatisation Administration, the budget and its final accounts, with the budget of Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Association, the Ministry of Public Works and Housing, and the final accounts of the Ministry of Special Environment Protection. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2013 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The Ministry of Public Works and Housing 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2011 (x) 361 and 362 S. The Numbered Basmazes and Funding Citvets are added to the 36th Union Charter, dated 10/12/2012/2012. THE PRESIDENT OF PRIVATE CONTROL 1) The President of the Special Environment Protection Agency for 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Finance Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The chairman of the IRS is the Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The President of the IRS's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) The Public Contraction Agency's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Public Contractor's Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The President of the Privatisation Administration's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Privatisation Administration President's Final Account for 2011 Central Management STUDIES OF CAMU OBSERVATION, MUHASEBE AND EXPERIENCE STANDARTS 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2013 Central Management Budget The Commission and the Government? It's all right. Lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in this tour can enter the system. Now I'm going to read the 2nd article of the drafts, entitled the income budget, and the financing. MADDE 2- (1) Adds to Law 5018, as shown in the 2011 Central Management Budget Law (B) marked by its rules; A) (I) The income of public administrations under the general budget is 272.750.926,000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary administrations have a total of 26,960,263,500 Turkish liras, including 5,484,035,000 Turkish liras, 21,476,228,500 Turkish liras, and a total of 26,960,263,500 Turkish liras. The revenues of regulatory and auditory institutions on C) (III) are estimated to be 1,892.505,000 Turkish liras. (2) The central administrative console in 2011 totals 279,026,426,000 Turkish liras, an estimated income. (3) Central administration is added to Law No. 5018, as shown in the final income sheets; A) (I) is a total of 288,103,107,802,31 Turkish liras, totalling net budget revenues from public administrations in 2011 under the general budget. B) (III) A total of net budget revenues from special budgetary administrations in 2011 totaled 37,501,919,974.86 Turkish liras, C) (III) A total of net budget revenues from regulator and auditory institutions in the ruler of 2011 was 2,095,475,124,43 Turkish liras. (4) The central administrative console of 2011 totals budget revenues of 296,823,601,277,71 Turkish Lira. In accordance with the Law (B), it is included in the Law No. 5018; A) (I) The income of the general budget on the ruler is 362.960.518,000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary administrations' income is 6,617.837.200 Turkish Lira, a total of 45,383,884.650 Turkish liras, including 38,766,047,450 Turkish Lira Treasury benefits, and a total of 45,383,884.650 Turkish liras. C) (III) is estimated to be 2,342,150,000 Turkish liras, totaling 2,363,741.000 Turkish liras, including $2,591.000 Turkish Liras in the regulator and auditory institutions on the table. (2) Financing: The net financing of special budgetary administrations on the table No. 5018 (II), as shown in these laws (F), has been estimated to be 125,296,000 Turkish liras. In the 12th round, I'm reading the names of the members of the group and their individuals: On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora, Diyarbakır MP Emine Muraha, Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan; İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tankulu, Manisa MP Erkan Akçay, Tekirdağ MP Bkent Belen; On behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group, Çanakkale MP Mustafa Serdar Soydan, Tekirdağ MP Emine Kırlü, Koneeli MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan, Hatay MP Mevlüt Dudu, İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal, İzmir MP Oğuz Ojan; On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Party of Cumhuriyet People Group; On behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Party Group, Kayser Günser, Cumhuriyet People's Party MP Ahmet Baker, Ahmet Baker, Ahmet Çağurseşımım Künım Öz, Ahmet Çımımımımımımımıç, Ahmet Yıldırım, Ahmet Çümımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımın, Ahmet Meş, Ahmet Meğlu, İstanbul MP Ahmet Mümımımımımığlu, İstanbul MP Muğlu, İstanbul MP Ahmet Tanal., İstanbul MP. On behalf of the individuals, Diyarbakır MP Mine Lök White is in favour of İzmir MP Alaattin Yüksel. Now on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora... [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0002par0064	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the budgets of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and the General Directorate of Tapu and Kadastro under the Central Management Budget Bill of 2012. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, if you want to make a general assessment, you can say that the Justice and Development Party's environmental policies are essentially determined by two main attractions: the obligations of the accession process to the European Union and the needs of the free market economy. One is predicting measures that allow economic events to take place environmentally, while the second is affecting natural values to unsupervised the economy's functioning process. It is known that the European Union's overall environmental policies are aimed at maintaining a healthy life of the free market economy, and that Union policies are determined by an economic-oriented perspective, not by ecology. Amid the needs of modern conservativeism in political life and the obligations of liberal policies, the EC PARTI has had to follow a balance policy between the European Union's accession process and the needs of capital while creating decisions on environmental values. Even though we accept that the old excitement and enthusiasm for joining the European Union are gone in the last period, it is still possible to say that this dilemma is not as much as it used to be. Looking at documents, such as the AKP government's general policy, the party programme, the election declaration, the government's programme, will show that the environment and natural beings are only perceived as a resource for economic development and should be protected for that purpose. For example, in the party programme, our party looks at environmental problems both in terms of providing a healthy environment and reducing national costs. An environmental-economic relationship is more strongly highlighted in the 59th government programme established under the president of the Prime Minister. The air, heat, water, minerals, and others are directly affecting the nature and quality of the activities of all economic units that need to be addressed as the capital stockpile of the environment. Sensitivity will be increased in this regard. However, a review of the declaration of elections pre-November 3rd 2002 will show that the following ideas have been radically different from the above lines, that the emphasis has shifted from economy to ecology, economic development, as well as environmental values have been prior to the elections. While not green, the relevant section of a social democratic party's election programme is based on an ecology-oriented perspective, a number of policy proposals far from the position of power today include elements such as sustainable development, environmental sensitivity and democratic governance. Just increasing per capita income or improving physical conditions is not enough for quality life. Humans need freedom as much as bread to carry themselves out. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, one of the best examples of the government's environmental policies of the Justice and Development Party is that of not being relatively ecologically focused but entering into the service of neoliberal policies. Dear lawmakers, there are now around 600 dams belonging to the DSI. There are around 1,600 HES and around 200 HES productions continue. The government guarantees the owners of HES to buy energy. Although the initial investment cost is high, the guarantee of state-owned purchase boosts the appetite of companies. Despite intense objections from environmental organisations and locals, HES projects are persistently being carried on. THE solution to the publicisation problem, which is the main fear of the companies that build it, has also been resolved by the government. How? The government has handed over the government's immediate executive authority to the EPDK, which will be used by the Council of Ministers to apply in the event of war, and the EPDK has begun to make decision-making based on the order. Companies that make this decision very comfortable are also able to seize the land with villages and countless lands. It is not possible to understand that it was handed over to the EPDK to the EPDK in order to slaughter the environment, which was issued in 1939 and was called the law of war. Dear lawmakers, I think it's important for government officials to look at nuclear love in understanding the environmental policies of the EC PARTY government. Nuclear energy is described as the most important way to meet Turkey's energy needs, but the disasters it may have caused are not considered. When we look at the nuclear disasters worldwide, it's remarkable how severe the consequences are. On April 26, 1986, the entire fate of Chernobyl had suddenly changed, not only the Chernobyl, but Europe, the Black Sea, as well. For the past 26 years, Chernobyl and its vicinity have been a desolate region where all life has ended. In 2011, the explosion at the Fukushima Nuclear Plant in Japan, followed by the rise of radiation levels, reminded us once again of the extent of the disasters that nuclear power plants could have caused. Many countries with nuclear power plants around the world have decided to stop nuclear power plant programmes after this disaster, while efforts are under way to build nuclear power plants in Turkey. Dear lawmakers, there's a lot to say about the environment, but I'm going to make a few brief points to make it clear to the government of its practices. The city was symbolically organised as a public cleaning event on June 5, World Environment Day in Mardin province. After a short walk of this event, garbage has been taken from the ground, environmental awareness has been tried to instill in the citizens, but for some reason, there has been action against the citizens attending the event, and an investigation has been launched by Mr. Ayşe Gökkan, municipal employees and a large number of citizens -- about 20 persons -- has been launched into opposition by the Prosecutor's Office of the Law 2911. So we saw that we lived in a country where cleaning up the environment, telling the public about it, and vaccinating it was considered a crime. Dear lawmakers, especially during the summer, forest fires often occur. Many of these fires are caused by bombs thrown in the mountains for safety in the conflict. In these forest fires, the villagers suffer serious damage, trying to put out the fire with their limited resources. These studies are often blocked by security forces again for security reasons, and forests of hundreds of years are burned to the ground in a few days. There are no air extinguishers in the area, which are essential for putting out forest fires. I'd like to give you an example: The fire caused by the explosion of the electric transformer in Mardin-Redtepe this summer was destroyed not only by forest fields but also by villagers, many people were injured. In addition, when the village limits were established during cadastro studies, most of our Suryani citizens settled abroad in Mardin, my constituency area, the villages were either completely empty or few Suryani populations remained in the villages. In addition, some of the settlements in the empty villages are under the protection of the forest during cadastro studies. In this way, many real estate is identified as a forested area in the framework of the forest cadastro. Another problem is that most of the unsupervised movers who have been left their villages abroad because of security problems have been registered as treasured property because they are vulnerable to cadastro studies. In such cases, however, arrangements must be made to be determined in the name of the former scoundrels of immovable goods. Also, one of the many problems with the deed cadastro cases is that, you know, after the cadastro studies, a ten-year statute of limitations has been set so that the deed can be repealed and registered. Many of our citizens living in Europe, who have had to emigrate, are hereby dismissed for having passed the statute of limitations for ten years. In fact, property is also protected in the First Protocol of the European Convention on Human Rights. So we believe that there should be no statute of limitations on property issues. In addition, one of the major challenges in extradition of residences belonging to minority foundations is that the transactions have been abandoned to the initiative of employees in local administrations. In some places there are no serious problems with extradition, while in some places there are unnecessary bureaucratic difficulties. Therefore, change of mind is more important than anything else. More importantly, I think the political climate should be created, which will create the ground for it, and I hereby salute the General Assembly again. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0003par0079	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Diyarbakır MP Emine Mirror... Here you go, Mr. Mirror.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0004par0083	Thank you. Mr. President, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, I'm here to review the AKP government's Ministry of Finance work. For about 5,000 years, governments have ruled the world, capitalism has ruled for 500 years. Today, social scientists now state that neither the state system nor capitalism has reached the limits of sustainability. Economic crises from the beginning of the 20th century until today, which have become almost chronic, show that capitalism is nearing its last breath. What this system has shown to the people of the world is a lack of conscience and irrationality, which is free of human emotion, who sees everything as a tool for the market to operate, and who has no vision except to sell the tree, which, as Marx put it, cannot benefit from its shadow. The social, political, cultural and economic perspective of capitalism has upset social tissue, the ecological balance, the nature. Unlike the crises and chaotic processes of mankind in the past, the problems that arise today in both nature and socialities are more global than national and regional. No economic, political, social crisis in society is limited to itself, both from the global crisis, and by deepening the global crisis, it becomes a concern for all mankind, and it is now in danger of changing not only the nature of the universe, but the nature of man. You can no longer think of it as part of nature, so you don't realize what an end your dominant approach to nature has brought. It's so much about today and it's only about its individual interests that it doesn't realize that nature's end is its own. Humanity now has to decide on two fundamental issues that make itself available: whether or not all living life with it can be maintained, whether it can be made on the basis of resistance for its future. This points to a situation that is directly linked to the accuracy and practicality of decisions. Just as the most fundamental truth of human society is the conflict and turmoil, hunger and poverty, inequality and injustice, single-species and corruption, the growing population problems and unemployment, and the loss of breath and resolution, we are discussing the Finance Ministry's budget for 2013, which presented Turkey's budget bill under the attacks of a capitalist civilization. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have expressed their mission as "in order to achieve economic and social goals, to contribute to the preparation of financial policies under good management, to implement the established finance policies, to follow and oversee the implementation," and their vision as "fast and quality service, transparent, accountable, a leading Ministry of Finance" can be discussed by the finance ministry's budget! No doubt acting according to the mission set by the United States and the IMF, where a government without a vision of equality, justice, freedom can do the most. "Even though it is not written what its economic and social goals are, we know what the AKP means in its war against the people of Turkey, in its trialless executions, in its arbitrary arrests, in its policy of assimilation, in nature massacres, in its desire for nuclear weapons, in its "economic and social goals." Such a logic is naturally anti-human and anti-natural and anti-democratic. If we expand more, the AKP budget is a war budget. He insists on the policy of deniability and destruction of state policies, which have been in approach to the Kurdish problem for 30 years. In June, 100 million liras were transferred to war with Kurds in July, 650 million liras. Increases from electricity to natural gas to 40 percent to cover the budget deficit that this creates. Again, in 2011 and 2012, the majority of the shares sent from the central budget to the Kurdish provinces were divided into military and police spending. 60 per cent of the central budget sent to my class went to the military and police, only 7 per cent to health. Again, 43 per cent of the number sent to Şırnak province, 50 per cent of the number sent to Hakkari (Hakkari) was divided into gas, copa, and TOMA to lower the voice of the speaker of military operations, political operations. In the Western provinces, these numbers of military and police spending didn't even find 20%, and I'm glad they didn't. After all, despite such cruelty and injustice, the voice of Kurds and democrats and socialists of this country has not been cut off. The AKP budget is the prison budget. "If you don't think, there's no Kurdish problem." he says. But isn't it true that we humans are different from other creatures, that we are thinking, and that we are expressing that idea? Then if we don't think as the Prime Minister says, we'll stop being human. Is that what he's suggesting? We all know that thinking, questioning, researching, whoever it is, is a threat to the AKP, and it's called the head of the hand. He puts what he can't kill in the dungeon. AKP takes two concrete steps in social policy: one to build mosques everywhere, two to expand existing prisons and make new ones. So what's put in front of society as a result of AKP's social policy is, "Don't question me, go to the mosque; if you're going to question me, here's the dungeon." Such people have never been sent to prison in the history of Turkey, including coup times, for their political thinking and stances, is the most concrete act of the AKP government. The AKP budget is the budget of the rich, the bourgeois; workers, workers are not part of the AKP budget. As we evaluate the Ministry of Finance, we can no doubt view this as independent of the developments around the world, the pressures of the natural and legitimate rights of the people every day, the acquisition of the people's eight hundred-year-old budget rights, the economic, social and cultural massacres that global capital has taken in the region to increase its own interests and profits. The AKP says to singles, marry, have at least three children. With this minimum wage, with this unemployment rate, with this poverty limit and the poverty limit? How will they care for their families, their children, how will they feed them, how will they raise their children? With the loans you're gonna loan to their grandkids? The budget of the AKP finances is the male budget that ignores women. Let's not forget that one of the most intense and profound areas of female genocide is the economy. The woman, who was the creator of agriculture and home economy, began to produce a tremendous product after the soil was planted and farmed regularly. Everyone participates in this production by their strength and voluntarily. The collective product is distributed equally and fairly by the woman, given as much as anyone needs, as much as they can consume. Hunger and similar situations are only due to droughts, floods, colds, but the economy that comes out of the control of women is now only in the service of a certain number of people. Today, we are all overwhelmed by this mentality. Dear lawmakers, today, the mind of this system and therefore the AKP is reflected in the following practicals: the metamorphisation of public goods and services and the reduction of the public through the broadest of privatisations. We are what is called the public, the society itself, the reduction of the public, is called the reduction of society. Let the people have nothing, let a handful of people buy all the resources, profit from all the resources that this geography has given them in society, let them buy from a group of people and become poor themselves! Now, because we're saying this, are you going to tell us tomorrow that we're the enemy of liberty? We are not the enemies of wealth, but we are the people of wealth. You steal that fortune from us and sell it back to us without shame. We are the enemy of this thought, of this system. The wealth that you have drawn to a handful of people is the wealth of the people. Don't heat and heat up the example of the Soviet Union that has been established. The wrong practices of the Soviet Union do not mean that you are right, that capitalism is right. The Soviet Union has barred the public from managing resources. It's the same thing you do. We say, let us, as the people, manage the resources we have, we produce, we decide. Finally, I would like to mention that you know that the United States wanted to put a role model in front of the Middle East through Turkey. He also called it "Islamic Islam" and carried out the AKP project. Today it has now become clear that what is called the wise Islam is actually the market of Islam. So the people who are hungry for the free market are the ones who are hungry to control the Islamic equality that says it's unacceptable if it's not, to turn Islam away from its philosophy, from its nature, just to promote worship, and to convince people that it can be saved by praying in every form of liberalism. Unfortunately, they did. They've been talking about creating a new generation a lot lately. They also call it the "dindar generation." Yesterday on the news -- you've all seen it -- we saw the first example of this generation live. Two young robbers break into a grocery store, the store's security camera is on camera, stealing, face down, collecting goods, boxes. At that time, they are likely to be recited in the morning, and they stand with great respect for the prayer, and they do not steal while the persecution is being recited, for it is a sin. And they pray, "God help us," and when the persecution is over, they continue to steal from where they left off. Here's the difference between our new economic model and the old one. Here's the Islamic market called "Islamic Islam." Mr. President, I salute you with my faith that one day the plundering capitalist system will be ripped from the roots of this geography, that the Turkish peoples will be thrown out, that they will make all the decisions on how to govern all the resources they live in this geography; that the struggle of production, the oppressed sex, the labor, equality, and freedom of the peoples will dominate this land.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0005par0100	Thank you, Mr. Mirror. Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan. Here you go, Mr. Aydoğan.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0006par0104	Mr. President, on behalf of the Party of Peace and Democracy, I will express my party's views on the revenue budget of the Ministry of Finance. First of all, I salute you all. Before we express our views, our Minister of Finance is here... thank you for being here and listening to us. I thank you because some ministers, unfortunately, do not listen to the opinions and opinions of opposition parties while their budgets are being discussed.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0007par0106	They were all here.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0008par0107	They were all here, all of them. You weren't here.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0006par0108	Wait a minute, I'll explain. The day before, yes, the budget of the Ministry of the European Union was being discussed. Mr. Secretary, our party's MP got up before he could express his views and opinions about the ministry, came in, first had a long talk with the members of his party's group for a long time -- while our friend was speaking -- and then he stopped talking, and he came and talked with the CHP's deputy leader for a while. He was almost at the end of his speech, and I said, "Mr. Minister, shouldn't you listen to what an opposition party member has to say about your ministry?" And he came up to me, until we sat down, and he said, "You're talking nonsense, so why should we listen?" I said, "You have to listen to this before you can say it. You'll listen so you know if the person across the street is talking empty or full. I don't need it. He said. I mean, first of all, I want to say that I'm critical of this approach and I don't accept it. And it would never suit a minister in charge of the European Union. A CHP MP told me, I suppose, that you'd be a minister of the European Union if you had this approach. Because it's the most important thing in the European Union, a culture of democracy, and it's spreading that culture around.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0009par0111	It's normal because he's an idle man.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0010par0112	Don't take any calls.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0006par0113	That's what I'm going to say in short, and now I'd like to share our views on the income budget with you. Dear friends, the budget is not a pile of numbers that systematically show the revenues and costs of a state. Budgets are the mirror of the government's social and economic policies. By looking at a budget, it is possible to see whether the government will work in the public interest, whether it will lead the society into a productive society, which class will serve development, whether it will raise the standard of living. If we look at the 2013 budget by the AKP government, we can clearly see that it wants to create a consumer society instead of a production society, not the general society, but the enrichment of a certain class. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have created a significant portion of the government's budget revenues from indirect taxes. The height of the indirect taxes indicates that revenue distribution has deepened, that the tax system has lost its function. At the same time, high indirect taxes fuel the informal economy. When the public is burdened with so much on the budget of the underprivileged income, individuals remove taxes by taking unregistered goods. Thus, both indirect and direct tax collection can't be collected. Dear friends, the fact that the government has been charged with indirect taxes as a policy to create the budget is a sign that it has taken a stand against the public. The public's already low buying power, with taxes like VAT and STV, is getting heavier today, becoming unbearable. The ones with money, the ones with high income, even though they don't feel those rates, are much heavier than those with low incomes. In practice, the logic of meat, milk, education, health care costs is 8 percent of the VAT rate; in diamonds, diamonds, bars, gold and precious stones, it also needs to be explained. The AKP government has expanded credit card use to increase indirect taxes, the largest source in the budget, to control the informality. Thus, Turkey has become a society where consumption culture is growing and social values are degenerative. There's an army of debtors crawling in court today with blacklisted credit card debtors. You can also extend your foot according to your quilt to those who have fallen to the courts. Mr. President, the current tax rate in the 2013 budget is 30 to 35 per cent. Why people avoid paying taxes in Turkey, why they are not willing to pay taxes, is a matter for the government to answer. To us, it's because it's an unfair tax perception. The AKP often uses the negotiating system, which provides tax forgiveness and reductions in penalties to keep the government and the merchant by its side, protect and increase the voter population. This certainly has a negative effect on well-intentioned, honest taxpayers. It is also extremely important for the person who will pay taxes on where taxes are to be used. If it is believed that the tax they pay will be used in the areas that society needs, there may be no shortage of payment. Those who can't get the service they expect, those who don't approve of paying taxes for war spending, may take a negative look at paying taxes, but those who benefit from tax forgiveness, a reduced sentence, that's enough for us. If you say that, there's nothing we can say to him. Dear friends, budget building is a mechanism that directly demonstrates how the concept of sovereignty is being used, both in terms of the preparation process and the practicality of the democratic state of law. The most fundamental dynamic of this process is the fair and transparent use of authority entrusted to parliament during the budget production process. However, it is clear how the government adheres to the principle of transparency in the 2013 budget. Because the difference between the AKP's policies with its commitments in 2002 and after its arrival began to make it feel more and more common in everyday life. Dear friends, the budget, one of the most important indicators of social justice in Turkey, has, unfortunately, been a structurally building and implementing this injustice that deepens social injustice this year. First of all, this budget is a major attack on society's right to budget, whether it has income or costs. This budget was done without asking a large part of society, and the principle of participation has been violated. This budget was again created as a sexist budget, not in a way that could repair the great injustice and historical distortions that women relive daily. The budget ignored transparency and the principles of public control, and a new budget was made without account for the past year. This is also a violation of the right of the people's sovereignty. This is the result of a power fetishism such as I am the sole sovereign of power. Taxes collected from the public have not been asked where to spend it. As this was not asked, the amendment to the Law of the Court was also prevented from learning where these expenditures were made. Military expenditures have been made even more questionable by confidentiality motions. This is also a blow to society's right to budget. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have changed concepts along with the AKP's power. The concepts such as prevention, increased employment, young people's needs, women's problems, such as non-fiscal balance, financial rule, were replaced by concepts such as budget balance, and financial rule. As such, the budget has produced a budget that meets only certain political and ideological priorities, rather than the ability to respond to the needs of the public. These priorities are to relax the movement of capital, to transfer wealth to capital again. The way the budget was created proves this painting because the government created 85 per cent of the income from tax revenues. However, 91 per cent of these taxes were collected by cutting from the source. Sixty-five percent of this stopage was taken from paid workers, employees. So a lot of direct taxes are paid by workers. In addition to all of this, the income tax received from the public-owned taxpayer, which receives about 2 million capital revenues, has a ridiculous rate of 1 per cent in the total income tax share. Dear friends, during the AKP government, the tax burden was removed from the capital and gradually fell on the workers' backs. As income tax tariffs were reduced from six to four digits, increasing proportionality was neutralized, the tax rate for the top earners was reduced to 40 per cent before 45 per cent, and then to 35 per cent after that. The tax rate of institutions was reduced to 30 per cent before 33 per cent, then to 20 per cent. As a result, an unfair distribution of tax burdens was revealed that could not be seen anywhere in the world. According to this, 70 per cent of a minimum wage net income carries a tax and premium burden of 50 per cent of gross income, while the bank's effective tax load does not exceed 5 per cent of the large holdings. Mr. President, the current budget of 2013 has not been different from the previous, unfortunately its face has been exposed to rulers and capital and its back to the public and the oppressed. Under the painting of the AKP's power of enrichment and better finance, the sale of the years' laborers, which they have built by raising from their own teeth, the sale of the KİTEST, which is actually a gift to the private enterprises of the people. Privatisations have been replaced during this government during the 90s, where they were constantly maintained for financial balance and exploiting people to the bone. Even if privatisation policies are not in the short term, over time, the impact of public economy and public pockets will begin to reflect. So far, $35 billion of the $43 billion privatisation has been carried out during this period of government. CSIs founded on capital created by public taxes have been sold to local and foreign organisations, as a result of neoliberal policies -- regardless of the state's condition, on the grounds that there is a burden on the back of the state. The end of the sea has appeared in privatisation, my friends. It's a wonder for all of us how the government will fill its vault from now on and where it will sell to fill it. Dear lawmakers, the public is billed for crises which are responsible for capital. Again, in the Kurdish problem, the bill for policies that have been tried for 30 years, including denial and destruction carried out by AKP (AKP) and that now delivers even the bullshit of an average level of intelligence and experience. Only last summer, the additional budget transferred from finance to war for operations and intelligence activities was $650 million. For budget deficits resulting from these, high increases and again high tax rates were taken from the public. This painting has also been the fate of the poor of the country, of its workers, of the AKP's rule, which, unfortunately, has not changed. The absurdity of the criminal attitude that the AKP used to use in opposition -- which was constantly ideological -- has become much clearer with this data. Ideological attitude and behavior can never be used as the instrument of an incriminating statement. No one is immune to ideas, ideology, world opinion. We've always expressed our political position in our own name on every platform, and we haven't done a single bit of that, because our ideological and political stance is a stand for the rights of the workers, the poor, the unemployed, the rights of the oppressed as a whole. Today, the government is the maintainer of neoliberal policies and aims to get results from these policies, but it is not possible to get results by taking on the political representation of capital ideology by taking less than those with money, less than the poor, more than the oppressed. We'll all see about that, dear friends. Ideological behavior is not bad or bad. The question is which parts of the ideology serve its interests. Capitalism is the enemy of the peoples, and our duty is to fight capitalism and those who advocate this ideology, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0011par0135	Thank you, Mr. Aydoğan. İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0012par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget and final accounts of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate in 2013. On behalf of our group and personally, I salute our General Assembly first. Dear lawmakers, annual budgets are the economic guide of governments and are the political equivalent of the energy they need to create and maintain their own dynamics. From the moment it's planned to the process of legislation, the budgets should inspire trust and peace for both the economic environment and our citizens. The budget law, on the other hand, is a law in which the activities of the public administration also adhere to legal norms. Today, however, the 2013 budget, which we continue to discuss, is a budget that is quite remote and shallow from the qualities mentioned above, and thus the General Assembly has come to our agenda. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism budget, which we discussed within the scope of the failed budget of 2012, also refutes the government's claim of importance to the environment and urbanism. The total budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and its subsidiary, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, in 2013, is only 1/4 of the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs. From this point of view, it is clear that the ministry will not be able to contribute enough to the environment and urbanism, the most important agenda of developed countries. In fact, it's possible to see these confessions line by line in the 2013 budget of the Ministry of Development, which you see in my hand, in which the ministers, who have already expressed these statements and have confessed somewhere and received the government's views and are sitting on the bench. In this programme, it says: Inadequacies in practice, monitoring and auditing are becoming significant environmental problems. There are also serious criticisms at the point where the quality of life -- such as irregular and unauthorized construction in the settlements, insufficient technical infrastructure, high risk of disaster and security -- is still having a negative impact on the quality of life. In fact, the main reason for all of these criticisms is that all the central local institutions and institutions, which are in charge of creating and implementing environmental policies, are the valuable lawmakers who have lived within themselves during the past decade. In particular, it has become inextricably difficult to get out of the mess of duty and authority, with decrees issued in a rush of law. The mechanisms of implementing environmental policies were clearly to be carried out by a very clear and clear Department of Environment, but at the moment we are here today, the Ministry of Environment has been gradually neutralized, and has been transformed into another structure as a result of the process. In this process, which we can describe as a conscious unconscious process, we see that the Ministry of Environment was first merged with the Ministry of Forestry. Later, the Ministry of Environment and Forestry is added to the Ministry of Public Works and Housing, and in the end, a ministry called the Clumsy, Hard-to-run Ministry of Environment, Forestry and Urbanism, which claims to make urban transformations. In the end, the government, which insists on uniting the Ministry of Environment with another ministry, puts aside the forest -- another highly valued minister -- taking urbanism, mutated and emerges today's Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. Dear lawmakers, since the current government is known to protect the environment and to prevent the Rant formation that it intends to create at this point, environmental protection factors have shown us an approach so far that mortgages life rights for generations to come on many issues related to the environment. There are still about 5 per cent of the 3,215 municipalities in our country -- look, only 5 per cent -- in the sewer system -- and there's only 1.5 per cent of these sewers, and we don't know if they're working or not. In other words, close to 100 per cent of these sewer waters are being discharged, as well as over 95 per cent, without being subjected to water, lakes, and seas. Dear MPs, last month, the United Nations Convention on Climate Change Framework was held in Doha (the capital of Qatar). Look, this meeting has been so unsuccessful for our environmental management of Turkey that when you look at all the records, the records, it's possible to find them line by line there. In terms of greenhouse gas emissions, Turkey did not make another commitment to reducing greenhouse gases, as it did at last meeting, unfortunately. According to the World Climate Change Performance Index, in 58 countries, our country ranked last to fifth. And that's not all the failed performance on the environment. In particular, Turkey is ranked 84, at 94 countries' point in reducing environmental impacts. Dear lawmakers, on the other hand, we see the environmental impact assessment of the CED process is now non-transparency and in favour of the demanding companies, without having enough transparency to negotiate with our citizens. Again, we've been living in Izmir Gaziemir, a very important environmental disaster for some time now, valued lawmakers. Adeta is Turkey's Chernobyl. When a lead operating facility dating back to 2008 is examined for its damage to the environment, it is unfortunately intended to cover the research there. We've submitted several written questions to our ministry, and unfortunately we haven't received any response from them yet, but I can tell you from here, we'll continue to be persistent followers of this issue, because we've also discovered that the study and data in other regions of İzmir is not present in the ministry, either because of air pollution or because of heavy metal pollution in the soil. Dear lawmakers, urbanization in our country has become inextricable as a result of wrongful policies. The most important way to deal with this problem is not to let it go as it is today and not be studied, without careful planning, with laws or decrees. An analytical system structure is urgently needed in accordance with plans for our modern and national values by professional groups who know and analyze the sector very well. You know, there's a law on the transformation of disaster-threatening areas, which have been drafted and recently released by the AKP. In this, when it is judged within its own integrity, we will clearly see that the next 15 or 20 years of our country, its future and the foundation of urbanization, are not well-organized. In the process of the legalisation of Law 6306, known as the National Transformation Law, we believe that many vague statements that the National Movement Party object to are causing problems today, and that these problems will continue if necessary arrangements are not made. The best example of this situation is the clause in which the law cannot be stopped. If your house is to be destroyed as part of urban transformation, you will not be able to decide whether to stop the project until you have decided to call off the destruction. After that, even if you get the cancellation decision, your house will already be destroyed, and you will be most likely to receive the reparations set by the ministry. On the other hand, a structure that remains within a transforming area in any city due to the threat of disaster will be destroyed due to its implementation integrity, even without risk. Why, then, should we put people to waste by making it necessary to identify the risks of earthquakes in these areas one by one? We're on our way to a reality where the policy of urbanization and disaster risk in our country have been based on the fact that all our cities have been transformed into a Rant transfer area and the rule of law has been destroyed. Therefore, the search for regulation in the newly issued Metropolitan City Law under the Law of 648 must be abandoned immediately, which means zoning pardon. Dear MPs, another important issue is that between 1923 and 2002 in our republic's history, more and more of our land sold to foreigners has been sold in the last decade. In the past, it could be sold at least 5/1000ths of a province, but it could not exceed about 10 per cent of its zoning area with new regulations. It has been changed by the current government. Now, when we look at it in this sense, in many regions, in many provinces; if we can count, maybe half our province of Hatay is selling to foreigners in areas like about 7 percent of our province of Iconia. Dear lawmakers, in order to succeed in the environment, there is a situation that depends, of course, on executives and all segments to truly absorb environmental protection and, of course, their awareness. When we look at it like this, unfortunately, our country is on the verge of a political decline. Look, some indicators of unemployment have been published today, from 8.8 per cent to 9.1 per cent, as of September. We still have hundreds of brothers and sisters as environmental engineers waiting for the ministry, and unfortunately the ministry has turned its back on them, and it's clear that this will happen in the 2013 budget. Our country will now have to consider not only economic policies but also environmental and social interests in all its investments. The investments that we're focusing on with the economy are unfortunately relevant, and they don't see interest in environmental conditions, precious MPs. You know, in 2009, the licensed map cadastro offices were established in terms of privatisation of cadastro services, and many services have become unclear in this area because of the legal cases lost by the ministry. Since these offices serve in accordance with the demand, they have also raised their fees to abbreviated points, and while our citizens used to pay between 40 and 50 lira for an application process, this service has reached up to 180 lira today, and they have been paid this fee. Another important issue, valued lawmakers, in May 2013, will be the end of the deal with the project we call TAKBIS. All operations related to the temple in our country must be shared here with the public on what to do after May 2013, and how to plan it after May 2013, due to the negative impact this system will have on its end by an hour. We also have to know how much our Tapu Kadastro General Directorate owes TÜRKSAT. The cost of climate change and ecological destruction on Turkey will be very high over the next decade, lawmakers. We think that the environment should be given the necessary importance and that the sensitivity should be more than it used to be. I respectfully salute you all again, hoping that our views on the ministry budget, which we regret to be inadequate in the field of environmental and urbanism, will be considered.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0013par0164	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay... Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0014par0168	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Finance Ministry and the Chairman of the IRS. I salute your honorable committee. Dear lawmakers, the budget law is a law that allows the collection of revenues, the maintenance of expenses, and the authority to be made. The budget is a country's financial, economic, social and political mirror, and the budget law is also a reflection of the government's preference. If we look at the budget, we'll see the government. The budget is the property of the nation and is entrusted to the governments. The revenues are collected from the nation; expenses are paid to the country, to the nation, to the state. Or rather, it should be. The 2013 budget is also a reckoning and confrontation budget for 2012. The 2013 budget is designed in an environment where the structural problems of the economy are deepening. The delays in the preparation of the medium-term program, the mistakes of vision, the predictions of unresolved events, the constant revision of every estimate of each target, even the revision of the revision, so you've been re-revisionalised. When the third quarter grew up to be 1.6, they all turned out to be salt peppers. The mid-term program and budget projections are already and completely down. We can no longer comment on the OVP, talking about the OVP would be a necessary effort. This, in preparation for the budget, has also crippled the negotiations and implementation of the budget. Dear lawmakers, in the past ten years with AKP governments, the structural problems of Turkey's economy have been resolved, but the problems are increasing. This affects the budget deeply and negatively. Each key indicator shows structural distortions. The decline in growth has been sustained. Growth continues to depend on external savings. Growth rate is 1.6 in the third quarter, and all guesses and targets are down, and we'll all be happy if it's 2.5 at the end of the year. Budget deficits are beginning to grow. Turkey has started discussing the twin deficit, even the triplet deficit. Indirect taxes have increased. The indirect tax, 66.9 in 2012, rises to 68.7 in 2013. Over the course of a year, high rates have rained on the public three times. Inflation growth has gained speed, always over 50 percent of the target. Industrial production is seeing declines. The rate of use of capacities is falling. Technology density in the manufacturing industry is low. The addiction to intermediary imports is increasing. The high current is still open. Between 1923-2002 and 80 years, Turkey has issued a $335 billion bid in 10 years for the AKP (AKP). Turkey is unable to save money. The national rate of domestic savings has been reduced from 18.6 (2002) to 14.3. The public balances are not good. The Central Bank's Real Section Trust Index is dropping. The problem with the check continues to increase. Farmers are almost unable to produce. I also find it useful to draw attention to some discrepancies in these recent years of government. The rapid decline in growth does not reduce the current deficit at the same rate. The current deficit, a result of growth, is only recently understood as a result of decomposition in the production structure. Up until a few years ago, but as the high rate of business grows, we are now faced with the fact that despite the high current deficit, I can't grow up. High current deficits are also being added. Cari's going down a little bit, budget deficit's going up a bit. We are truly surprised by the official explanations that despite the huge decline in growth, unemployment has declined. In 2011, Turkey grew by 8.5 per cent, unemployment by 9.8 per cent; in 2012, unemployment dropped by 1.6 per cent in the third quarter; unemployment dropped to 8.8; today as of 9.1 per September, unemployment was announced. Don't you think there's some kind of contradiction or magic in this? Growth is falling and unemployment is falling. How does that work? The government must make a statement. Two conflicting notions in the economy, such as growth and stagnation, are recommended by the same government members by gas-frequency debates, showing a dissonance in economic management. The average growth rate for the 10 years of the AKP is 5 per cent in 10 years, a total of 50 per cent in 10 years, and if we take this cumulatively, it will go up a little bit. The government says that in 2002, the national income was $3.492, so we raised it to $10,873, so we increased it by three times. There's about 50 percent growth in ten years, but there's a multiplier income. How does that work? When we look at the 2013 Program, page 16. According to 1998 fixed and real prices, $4,225 per person per person in 2002, that's $6,089 for the end of 2012, so it's actually only up 43 percent. In national income, illegal domestics also have money, so it's kind of a hand-me-down wedding. Your Majesty, if you want, we've doubled the national income to five. Well, we don't think it's a big deal, because it doesn't mean anything. However, this increase in national income is not seen in our citizens' pockets, quality of life and prosperity. Both Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Finance Minister made some comparisons in their budget presentations, in terms of the power to buy in their speeches, and in the case of paintings, some fees, for example, with minimum wage, were compared to the amount of buying of some products as of 2002-2012, and it was said in this presentation that the price was 184 Turkish liras in December 2002, and in December 2012 we increased the minimum fee by 301 per cent. Yes, the minimum wage was 184 liras in December 2002, but the minimum wage was 226 Turkish liras in January 2003, and you don't consider it. Let's understand that, but you're giving yourself 22 percent advantage right now, so let's write that down. Secondly, you call the current minimum wage, including the minimum income reduction of 66 liras per $740. And you give yourself 9 percent of the advantage here, that's okay, but the minimum salary of 2002 is about 5 percent of the Turkish lira, and you don't pay any attention to that. That's a little unfair. Anyway, let's not dwell on this. Come on, let's do a little math, and I think that's the best thing to do. In November 2012, with a minimum wage of 740 pounds of bread, 316 litres of milk, 30 kilograms of meat, 236 kilograms of lentils, etc. The manufacturer sells his milk cheaply and doesn't earn it. Because the input costs are too high. Second, with these comparisons, the borders of hunger and poverty are ignored, and we can't ignore them. The hunger limit is 958 lira today, and the poverty limit is 3.120 Turkish liras. And we have to do this comparison. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's continue our comparison. In 2002, 184 Turkish liras could be bought at a minimum price of 6.5 pieces of gold, and now 4.3 gold pieces can be bought; nearly half this quarter of the gold is reduced. Another issue is that you can buy 1 litre of diesel with 3.5 kilograms of wheat in 2002, and now you can get 1 litre of diesel with 7 kilograms of wheat. In 2002, by selling 1 kilogram or 1 kilogram of 100 grams of raisins, the Manisa farmer could buy 1 litre of diesel; now he can buy 1 litre of diesel by selling 1 kg of raisins. 2 kilograms of cotton and 1 litre of diesel can now be bought with 3 kilograms of cotton. In 2002, 1 litre of diesel can be bought with 4.5 kilograms of corn and now 1 litre of diesel with 7 kilograms of corn. Dear friends, the government's propaganda once said in advertising, such as the ad for soda on TV, that the image is nothing, thirst is everything. It is not possible to maintain this image. Dear lawmakers, in the rest of my speech, I would like to briefly address some of the problems of the Finance Ministry employees. The peace of working and peace of mind at the Ministry of Finance has been corrupted, dear friends. Around 27,000 chiefs, officers, data-preparing controllers, roll callers, collectors, bailiffs work in various units. Some of them have two years of higher education, some of them a degree in finance and finance. Most of these personnel have more than 15 years of service, but their services, efficiency, and qualifications are not considered. In the same unit, the same service, side-by-side tables, even though they do the same job with the same responsibility, there are large wage differences among employees. These pay differences are 1,000-1. It can be between 200 liras. This violates the principle of equal work and is unfair. This has turned into an equal wage, not an equal job, but an equal price for an equal title. The staff I'm talking about is an expert in what they're doing, but since they're not in school for four years, they haven't been able to take their expert exams. The rights of these workers must be given with a proper formula, and their rights must be corrected. The rights of income specialists, chiefs and civil servants have become a mess. About 40 per cent of tax studies are conducted by tax managers. They're the IRS executives who defend tax cases and follow the case file. These are the heads of the negotiating commission, who answer to the Court as the court's supervisor, and to the court's account. If these problems are not resolved by employees and administrators, they will not be able to provide an effective and efficient tax office, but they will not be able to perform tasks targeted by Law 5345 with a staff of people whose enthusiasm and excitement has been broken. With these thoughts, I salute your honorable committee.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0015par0193	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Tekirdağ MP Bkent Belen. Here you go, Mr. Belen.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0016par0197	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the budget for 2013. I hereby salute the General Assembly. As it is known, the Law on Public Contracts and Public Contracts of Public Contracts has been enforced by the 57th Government, but the number of exceptions and exemptions has been increased from 6 to 60. Some of the exceptions and exemptions are particularly noticeable. These are the FATHIH Project, the Marmaray, the railways, the fast train tenders, the BATASK purchases, MIT, MASAK, sports federations and coal distribution tenders. Currently, only 4 per cent of public tenders are subject to the control of the institution. Due to these exceptions and exemptions, being subject to the institution and the law has become an exception, and the existence of the institution is no longer important. As for the income budget, 4 per cent growth and 5.3 per cent inflation were targeted in 2013, and tax revenues were expected to increase by 14 per cent. This is a sign that in the coming year, the government will increase indirect taxes without a fair taxation, and the chickens in the hen will be forced to lay larger eggs. The Finance Ministry has announced that the basic tax laws, especially in the Tax Tax Tax Tax and Taxes Act, will be redesigned. While these arrangements are being made, I hope that the opinions and suggestions of the practitioners, including the TurmoB, which is the senior agency of financial advisors who the Ministry considers to be a free and unstaffed member, are taken into account, because we know that problems cannot be solved unless the opinions, opinions, and opinions of those who are doing the practice are reflected in these arrangements. With the new Turkish Trade Law, our country was founded by the Public Watch, Accounting and Control Standards Association, which has not been an example in the world, it has both been organised and supervised, it has all the powers. This institution should exist in our country for accounting, financial reporting, for the spread of independent control, but is focused on work, such as a new professional organisation, replacing itself as a professional organisation, rather than as a custodial task force. No matter how perfect the arrangements we make here, if the institutions in charge of implementing these arrangements fail to carry out their duties, there may be major problems in the application leg. They are financial advisors in our country who implement tax legislation and social security regulations that concern our commercial lives. Such provisions require the use of 23 years of knowledge and experience of TÜRMOB (TÜRMOB) and the sharing of their co-operation experience. With 84 vocational rooms and 89,000 members, TÜRMOB must take part in the preparation of the Independent Control Rule. As a top member of the accounting profession, international practices must be discussed with TÜRMOB (TÜRMOB) and the implementation must be carried out together. Independent auditory training and examination organizations are subject to a separate and special education, experience. This experience is available in TÜRMOB with 23 years of internships, exams, and training practices. In addition to public institutions and universities, the TÜRMOB, which has been teaching for 23 years, should be taken among the institutions that will provide education and should be conducted by a commission consisting of TÜRMOB, Ministry and university representatives, as well as the envisioned examinations on professional competence in the current implementation. A free accountant, financial advisor and sworn-in financial advisor must be granted additional examinations for a candidate whose professional qualifications have been denied. The event should be tied to the collection of the value-appropriate tax in free trade activities, in which it should not be forced to pay the VAT (KDV) of any money they may not be able to receive, even if the legal regulation is made to correct the conflict between Article 67 of the Taxes Act and Article 10 of the Adding Value Tax Act. The fee collection of financial advisors must be facilitated and the payment must be imposed on a document as soon as the contract between him and the client is signed and the Finance Ministry must make the necessary legal arrangements. The general concept of income tax law should be written more clearly, representation of free occupational activities should be made clear in the law, in which housing costs can be paid. There must be a professional presence in the investigations carried out by the financial audit staff and in the process of writing the report in particular. Between July 1st-20th, which is a fiscal holiday app, no unit dependent on management should perform a full-scale review program. At least one member of the settlement commissions, which have been in tax law, all of which are finance employees, should be assigned by the rooms in charge of ÜRMOB. Dear lawmakers have also failed in AKP governments' privatisation activities, and irregularities have failed to meet their budgetary goals due to corruption. In the last decade, the government has quickly and inextricably privatised almost all public assets in electricity, cigarettes, alcohol, salt, ports, and other sectors, so that national organizations can change hands from domestic to alien, without separating the local-foreign. The final example of failed privatisation is the way the 2,000km highway, along with the bridges, was launched today. In preparation for this tender, the Privatisation Administration, which our Minister of Finance couldn't control, has completely failed, and since the tender has been launched, the condition has been changed six or seven times. If you're not ready, why are you in such a hurry to tender and become a laughing stock for all the local-foreign investors? What's the rush? To cover the deficits in the 2012 budget? The Privatisation Administration here has misled Mr. Secretary and the government. Members of parliament, in the final period of the Ottoman State, capitalizations have been declared as a result of loans from the palace and the state to pay the debt, and these capitalizations have brought the end of the Ottoman state. If this continues, all business rights cycles, concession agreements and privatisations are a candidate for government capitalizations. It's a very dangerous way to go and the measure is missing. The aim of privatisation is to limit the state's direct intervention in the economy, to increase efficiency, to reduce the competitiveness in the economy, to reduce the burden on public finance, to effectively use resources, to ensure production and employment growth, to develop technology transfer and export capacity, to spread capital to the base. The National Movement Party is not opposed to the privatisation of this logic. The Nationalist Movement Party, which has clearly demonstrated its approach to privatisation in the party programme, has always supported a privatisation policy, which provides production and employment growth, which is done by the public supply method and is spread through the basis of property, which is not victimised by employees in these organisations as a result of the sale. However, the National Movement Party is sensitive to the creation of new monopolyes as a result of privatisations, selling strategic institutions to foreigners, avoiding transparency, not selling non-committee organizations. These sensibilities also disturb some interests, particularly the AKP. One thing to pay attention to in privatisation policies is the implementation of the privatisation system through the IPO first, which is the distribution of capital. Market regulatory efforts to prevent private sector monopolys from taking place of state monopoly should be activated, and competitive markets must be created. Mr. President, I salute you, the General Assembly and the great Turkish nation as I end my words here, and I pray to God for the good of the 2013 budget.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0017par0219	Thank you, Mr. Belen. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Deputy Mustafa Serdar Soydan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Soydan.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0018par0223	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. I salute you all. It is possible to maintain a healthy life with a healthy environment. Ever since mankind began to live on earth and form an environment of its own, the balance between man and nature has become increasingly distorted. In particular, the person who created environmental problems by rapidly disrupting the ecological balance after industrialization has grasped the need to protect the environment when it affects its own life, its own health. Therefore, we must first change our view of the environment, the soil, the water, the air, and our understanding. Members of parliament, the ministry and all of us are primarily in charge of establishing environmental and natural awareness in developed societies. An Indian proverb we all know is that when the last river dries, when the last tree is destroyed, when the last fish dies, the white man will know that money is something that cannot be eaten. A society that destroys life, ignores the importance and value of natural beings, is doomed to perish, losing land and water that are essential to the continuation of mankind. A society that destroys its natural resources cannot produce its food and will end its own life. The way to protect our nature and to fight hunger and to achieve quality and safe food is to build a life that is integrated and sustainable with nature. He who despises the earth of our fathers will find it difficult to remember his word. Today, I want to share the results of a study that none of us want to face: According to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, 1 billion people worldwide suffer chronic hunger and more than 10,000 people die of hunger every day. Members of parliament, the government's practices and AKP's understanding of environment and nature threaten our future as a result of environmental catastrophes throughout our country. Our future, our land, our water and air, is being destroyed, led by brutal and violent capital that destroys the environment. THE HESEs have been the bleeding wound of our Black Sea region. The hees, founded in unplanned and wrong places, end the life of endemic plants, drain the streams, and the streams become unflowable. Poison flows from the Ergene River in Thrace. Industrial waste poses a serious threat to the region. In the Turgutian Çaldağ, mining companies destroy the most fertile land and forests in the world. In Afyon Beyyazı, the quarry threatens the health of the people. The mining activity in Balıkesir Balya (Balıkesir) 80 years ago still threatens life today. Pollution in the Little Menderes River threatens biodiversity and the health of those living in the region. The world's unique nature paradise, the Kazdes, has been invaded by international mining companies. The destruction of the history and cultural paradises of Kazdağ, where 2.5 million people provide clean water, where millions of producers provide for their livelihood, is increasing by the minute. The ancient cement factories, iron steel factories, thermal plants, are ruthlessly destroying the environment, which developed countries do not allow to build in their own country. Congressmans, we must fight against losing our natural resources so that the world and our country will never return. We have to create a new understanding, a new perspective, an environmental awareness, from 7 to 70 in all communities and all institutions, but that understanding certainly shouldn't be the understanding that AKP has had for ten years. In an hour and ten minutes of budget talks, the Prime Minister said nothing about the environment and the environment consciousness, but he did not mention a word of 6,658 words. The Prime Minister either forgets the environment or ignores the air he breathes, the water he drinks, the soil he feeds on, or when he says around, he thinks about his surroundings and his followers. Our recommendation to the Prime Minister is that the world, along with its immediate environment, will visit its unique geography, the oxygen tank, the Kazdes, our citizens living in the Kazdes once and for all. Make no mistake, Mr. Prime Minister. The hospitality of those living in the Kazdes will be warmer and more intimate than the sultans on the other side of the world. But make sure he doesn't fly in like the Minister of Economy, on a plane assigned by companies looking for mines in the Kazdes. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs campaigns as life, but let's not forget that with the permission of those campaigners, three tons of water is spent to extract one gram of gold, and this water is released to nature by poisoning with cyanide. So the AKP government, on the one hand, says that water is life, but on the other hand, it poisons three tons of water for just one gram of gold, leaving it to nature, threatening life. Members of parliament are wondering what the Ministry of Environment and relevant organisations have been doing in the last year to clear Ankara's air, as I pointed out in last year's budget talk, and in the face of pollution rates that have occasionally exceeded threshold values. Does the ministry plan to remove some pollution values from the Ankara weather's measurements from the website from time to time, as it did last year? I suggest to the Minister that we put an air measurement device in the neighborhoods of Çukurambar and the centennial, where most of your AKP MP friends live. Maybe you've given up on the citizen, but at least you'll do it for the health of your own MPs. Congressmans, we vote no to the 2013 budget, which has been implemented by AKP governments for ten years in terms of environmental understanding, and we believe that the budget will only benefit the AKP's environment. Despite the government and the Ministry's understanding that economic rank is more important than the environment, we will continue to protect the air you breathe, the water you drink, the land you feed on. No one, including the Prime Minister, can ignore our natural resources, which are life itself. To ignore the earth, the air, the water, the environment, the life, the future. If it doesn't fly, if it's birds, if it's dying, what kind of fish, how do they live? Congressmans, I'd like to finish by stressing an important fact: in order to dominate hundreds of years, you have to have oil resources, water resources to dominate thousands of years. I wish for light days, when the raises and oppression end, when the dungeons are empty, a peaceful growth with the environment, a habitable environment. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0019par0238	Thank you, Mr. Soydan. Tekirdağ MP Emre Bridgellu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Bridge.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0020par0242	Mr. President, of course, Turkey's lack of a future environmental policy and, of course, AKP's weaknesses and wrongs in this matter are destroying our natural and cultural and, of course, vital areas. However, it is clear that this destruction and looting process also skyrocketed with the establishment of a ministry called the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and the arrival of an expert in construction, which has nothing to do with the environment. Today, those who lied about bringing Turkey into the world's top 10 economies are also aware that in 2012, the ministry, headed by the minister in charge of construction, has ranked Turkey as the 109th rank between 132 countries in the World Environment Index. Turkey, the 77th in 2010, fell 32 places in the last two years. At this rate, I think, soon, Mr. Secretary will bring Turkey to the end and, as he likes to call it, complete its mission and retire and give more time to its grandchildren. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's no surprise that this painting is happening like this. I'm going to ask the Minister one more time in front of you, but he already knows the subject very well, but he's always answered unrelatedly. Now, Mr. Secretary, I have a document, this is a production license, issued by the EPDK. This document is a document on agricultural land that shows the extent and purpose of the activities necessary for an operation. The document says that you can only produce electricity from garbage gas on this land. It's so clear and clear -- even though your ministry's CED file, your ministry gave it a positive document -- even though that's its purpose and purpose, the firm said: 40,000 dangerous barrels a year, you can clean up in this place, you can bury medical waste, batteries, batteries, whatever dangerous you can think of. You pick up the old tires, take out their waste oil, and sell it to the market. Now, Mr. Secretary, I'm going to ask you one more time. Now, I've shown you the field of activity, and I've shown you the CED document. Your ministry has given this a positive certificate. Now, I'm surprised how you still see yourself as a more environmentally responsible minister, if you call these activities positive. And what's even more interesting is that when the city in Chorus doesn't see the injustice here and let it happen, you dictate it to the city on the basis of your authority with the KHK, and you say, "This is where you're going to do it." I'm just saying, for the sake of your investigation, I'm talking about the Barractial Waste Bertaraf Facility. Mr. Secretary, I'm telling you why we're last in the World Environment Index, especially the members of the ruling party's group. Here's another example from my district: Tekirdağ Province has Şarköy and Muratlı districts. These counties, of course, have plans for 1/100,000 and 25 grand. You want to build a power plant on these plans, where the forest field and agricultural quality are registered as protected land. In the plans, and in the real case, this is forest land, and the other is a field that will preserve agricultural quality -- and I'll show you this clearly from the development plans -- but it doesn't matter how they're recorded in the plans. It doesn't matter what the local municipalities, the state's private administrations, have decided. In your ministry, the CED processes begin immediately. With the authority to change plans for the construction you've acquired with the KHK, the forest land suddenly returns to the power plant site overnight, suddenly the farmland is converted into thermal power plants, so easy. So in your ministry, change the plan, do it now. It's that easy. Farm land, forest land, it doesn't matter, as long as there's construction. I'll say it one more time: Mr. Secretary of State, Minister of Environment and Urbanism, do you realize that you are responsible for the environment? I'm very clear that the environment, not in the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, where the Minister is the founder, has even been contaminated. More specifically, I think we need to change the name of this Ministry, and we need to remove the environment of this Ministry. For example, there may be a ministry that is much more compatible with activities, which is much more compatible with what is being done, or a ministry that is responsible for changes in the design plan, for example, but once again, it is a ministry responsible for the environment that will last. We, the Republican People's Party Group, don't see the environment in this budget, we don't see any principles or nuances at the point of urbanism. Therefore, as the Republican People's Party Group, I respectfully declare that we will vote against this budget, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0021par0251	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. Alderman Mehmet Hilal Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0022par0254	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation and all the arrested MPs. We are still far from serious when many countries around the world realize and take precautions about the dangers and importance of global climate change in the world. I want you to know that this danger is even more dangerous than the economic crisis. Dear MPs, in the world and in us, the environment is perceived differently. The environment of the world is aimed at reducing and eradicating the consequences of climate changes caused by global warming, while the enrichment of water and forest areas, boosting biodiversity, ecological balance, and protection of the world that can be inhabited. We have a perception of opening the environment, first-class farmlands to industry, building high-rises and skyscrapers, commercializing the water, making laws to market forest land to Rantiers, building a rant door under the name of urban transformation, destroying forests and opening mines. As you know, Turkey signed the Kyoto Protocol in 2009. But we don't know what we're gonna do yet. The Ministry says we have no obligation until the end of 2012. Between 2013 and 2020, I'll work on the secretariat, and then God will take care of it. See, in the same period, in 2010, the United States Environment Platform decides that the developed countries need to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 40 per cent and 80 per cent in 2020, so that global warming can be kept down by two degrees. Thanks to you, after 2020, we'll start thinking. Minister, I'm telling you, signing Kyoto means taking sides, fulfilling its obligation. Even if you're not going to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, you're going to give up the investment of carbon emissions and high-tech investments. On the one hand, you say that I signed for Kyoto. On the other hand, you continue to build thermal plants that still work with coal. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's one more important thing I want you to know. In the last decade, Turkey has been the fastest country in Europe to consume its natural resources and its carbon emissions are growing faster. Mr. Secretary, I have a suggestion for you: Come, take out the word "circle" called the Ministry. Because you do nothing but protect the environment. In your practice, you take measures for urbanism and urbanization rather than protecting the environment. You're already from the contractor's office. BUILDING to satisfy people's need for housing and to produce social housing for the poor, TOKI has been transformed into state-run contractors and contractors in your administration. By law, you have bound the deed and the Kadastro to yourself, and you have marketed the forest fields to the beaters by law 2/B. With the Law on the Transformation of Disaster Risked Areas, you also took Turkey's deed to yourself. And you have made it your responsibility to destroy where you will, and to create whatever you will, and to build whatever you will; and no one will ask you, nor will you be questioned. Moreover, in doing so, you thought it was a skill to put the Public Contraction Law aside. That's why I want to remind you that 11 of our citizens, who died in the flood, paid for the housing you built in the mouth of the stream in Samsun. Who's responsible? I think it's you. I don't know if you'll be offended, but you're the reason. Again, I want to remind you that in the Van earthquake, you used a sentence like this: I'm an engineer... no more earthquakes after this great earthquake, go home, sit down. After the second earthquake, 10 of our citizens lost their lives. Haven't you taken any responsibility, no conscience at all? Aren't you the one who opened first-class farmland to industry in your ministry and in your power? Again, aren't you the one who caused millions of trees to be cut down by selling our forests to international miners? Aren't you the one who destroys green and sells water to corporations? Aren't you the one who caused nature to perish in order to build your dream of high buildings? I'm sorry to say, it's you. If I recall: Look, this is the village of Mashukiya, the district of Kopeli Province, which is a green paradise, the water basin of Lake Sapanca. You're sacrificing this place to the quarry. Again, let me show you another picture: Dilovasi, the state of Dilovasi, which is around it, and it's about the state of the industry that narrows down people's living spaces and destroys their breathing.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0023par0267	None of it happened in our time. Mr. Kaplan, none of them were in our era.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0022par0268	Minister, come, don't sacrifice the environment to the ministry, to this ministry. We don't have another world to live in. We have to protect it for our children's future. Tomorrow we'll be too late, it's our duty to protect this environment before it's too late. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0024par0271	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Hatay MP Mevlüt Dudu. Here you go, Mr. Dudu.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0025par0275	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Finance Ministry. I salute the High Council. The tax policy implemented during the AKP period has had two important orientations. One is that the tax burden of society during the AKP period is increasing. The increase in the GDP rate of paid taxes is becoming more and more remarkable. In other words, the rate of increase in taxes paid by society from income, wealth and spending is higher than the rate of GDP increase. The tax burden, which is 17 per cent in 2002, is 21.5% in 2012. It is estimated that it will exceed 22 per cent in 2013. The second important move is to increase the share of indirect tax revenues within tax revenues. In a more direct term, instead of taxes on income and earnings, VAT, EV, BSMV, and other indirect taxes, which are taken in import and included, are weighted. Indirect taxes in total tax revenues are estimated to be 65 per cent in 2002, 68.42 per cent in 2012, 70.41 per cent in 2013. The government is under serious obligation to increase the fragility of the economy. The VAT from imports, which provide improvements in favour of public financial balance, is one of the most important pencils in tax revenues. On the one hand, domestic manufacturers who can't compete with imports encourage almost imports because of the government's tax performance as they go bankrupt. In this scope, the increase in tax loads and the rise in the overall share of indirect taxes suggest that taxes are not used as an economic policy tool, but rather focused on the size of income-profit, in other words, on the quality of revenue distribution that is not observed in the resource allocation, as well as on the quality of revenue distribution that does not take into account. There are still no subpolitic sets consistent with anti-contract policy. The distinctive feature of governments is revealed in matters that require political determination regardless of such processes. Unfortunately, the government has shown its political determination in breaking or weakening the motivation of the financial audit bureaucracy, which will take part in the unregistered fight. The AKP is not sincere in fighting the informal economy, where tax capacity has reached significant volume. The AKP is fighting fiscal bureaucracy instead of fighting the informal economy. The government has shown that tax flexibility adopts a policy based on high indirect taxes, along with the latest increases. Instead of paying taxes, the income and institutions move towards VAT and OTV, leading to increased tax pressure on sub- and mid-income households. With the policy of public revenues programmed during this period, it appears to be getting further and further away from the principle of paypower. In addition to these general difficulties in tax policy, there are other serious problems related to implementation. The IRS implements a policy of pressure on free trades and small tradesmen. The administration has been under constant pressure over these parts, which are already in great economic distress, with the forceful increase of the matherah and the threat, which is a big mistake, and most importantly, your political government using the IRS as a trigger. With various means of pressure and threat, the fear of investors and business is now unbearable. This policy you're implementing has created a situation that shouldn't be in a modern and democratic state of law to maintain your power, to try to maintain the support of the business world. In particular, domestic capital has now become afraid of investing, and the only requirement for investing in this country is to be on the sidelines of power. As a matter of fact, the Prime Minister has made it clear to the business world that what he has spent on it will be eliminated. So much so that this policy of intimidation and intimidation has not only begun to affect domestic capital, but also foreign capital. Dear lawmakers, foreign capital is like a timid gazelle. If you scare him once in a stream where he comes in for a drink, it's hard to bring him back there. With your high interest policy, the economy that you're trying to barely survive by pulling in foreign hot money will also collapse. Dear lawmakers, this is why we, the Republican People's Party, argue that the President of the IRS should be transformed into an autonomous institution free of political concerns. However, Turkey will become a country that can be invested freely and safely in domestic and foreign capital. However, production will increase, employment opportunities will develop. However, at least 7 per cent of the annual growth rate targeted by the Republican People's Party could be achieved. But that's why we're all over the country... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...from Izmir to Van. From İstanbul to Hatay, the young people of this country, women, old and retired will be able to breathe a sigh of relief. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0026par0290	Thank you, Mr Dudu. İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0027par0294	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I pay my respects and respect to all our citizens who watch us at the head of television. Of course, when it comes to the environment, the Constitution, according to its provisions, binds everyone to govern, rule of law, rule of law, and rule of law. There is no need for the Governorate's report for the study of the waste disposal plant in our district of Yöresun province of Yüzyle, although the court has decided to press charges in the Army District Administration Court for the negativity of this CED report and to stop the execution and the case has been won in favour of consumers, although the court has approved this decision, Mr. Secretary, despite this work is still under way. Isn't this court order binding the Governor of Giresun? Your information is available. Two: thank you, Mr. Finance Minister. Of course, under the Information Act, I requested all books published by the ministry. They sent me the book on the foreign debts of the Ottoman Empire.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0028par0297	You asked for all the books.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0027par0298	They wouldn't if I didn't want them under the Information Act, but the Information Act is a really good law, so it's good for him to take it.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0029par0299	We brought him out, brother. The Law of Knowledge.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0027par0300	However, in the budget, how the expenditures were done in accordance with the law, and the spending of the budget should be seen by the citizens and the MPs, how the Parliament did not submit its report to the House -- and if these expenditures were hidden from citizens and lawmakers, I do not know if these flaws in the book -- I am being positive, optimistic, I hope, this is a mistake, this is an error of design -- whether the information has not been passed on here, or whether it has not been passed on, I don't know, and I give you his appreciation, that you should check it out.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0030par0301	It was a cover-up for the robberies.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0027par0302	What is this? Page 138, 139. The title in 137 is empty, no difference. Moving on.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0031par0303	It's a typo.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0027par0304	Page 140, 141, 142 is the same. We're on our way, contract...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0032par0306	What date is the book edition?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0027par0307	Mr. Ahmet, my colleague, my lawyer friend... as I say my colleague, as a lawyer, I'd like to inform you that as a member of parliament, it's not a profession. We're going again, same way.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0033par0309	You've enlightened us, Mr. Mahmut.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0027par0310	So these, I'm going to continue, the back page of the contract is from Article 259. I mean, it's not a citizen's job to find out about the other contract clauses, is it?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0034par0311	When's the release date?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0027par0312	Dear Ahmet Bey, the 2nd edition is dated February 2010. This is the second edition, they haven't removed the other edition, and if they did, I'd like to ask the Minister's office to do so.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0035par0313	Well, Mr. Ahmet wasn't Deputy Director of the Group then.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0027par0314	Dear lawmakers, what's going on now at the Public Contraction Agency? I'd like to thank the Honorable President of the Public Contractorship. The President of the Public Contractorship has made his service so clear and clear that he calls it a passing tender. Four of the 100 tenders made here come to us. Why? The exceptions that should have been in the law are many; the laws that must be numbered and limited have always been exceptional after the 2003 amendment. Since all of the tenders made by all of the ministries have been made exceptions, the Public Contraction Agency can't control whether the expenditures are in accordance with the Public Contraction Act, whether the tenders are in accordance with the Public Contract Act, and of course my wish is this: this way, I hope, will not keep the government out of its position.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0036par0315	If you say so, they will.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0027par0316	People who are the custodians of public revenues like this are needed, Mr. Secretary, I hope... Also in the oven, which is dated December 10, 2012 -- Mr. Ahmet Bey always says, "How old is it?" -- meaning fresher bagels. Please don't smuggle any of these contracts out of the Public Contraction Agency and make them an exception. Another problem is that there are people in the Public Contraction Agency who have been chosen by merit within elected executives, but there is no degree or measurement of the chosen; political advocacy has been measured. I demand that these measures be given up. Another problem is that if the government court is sued for a mistrial on public tenders, 180 euros will be applied to the Public Reburses Agency for $2,000! So, sir, it's almost as if you don't complain about the tenders, the corrupt tenders, don't sue, don't object. For economic reasons, such as this, the citizens have to object. Stop this unjust practice. Complaints are tied to buying documents, cost price according to the law. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...even though it's $5, it's sold for $100. I mean, in that sense, really, the Honorable President of the Public Contractorship, when he's trying to do his duty, but when I say it, I mean it objectively. The president of the Public Contractorship is Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0037par0324	They don't quit, they're all taken care of by the government. They're bidding on negotiation.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0038par0325	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Izmir MP Oğuz Oyan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Oyan.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0039par0329	Mr. President, we're discussing the 11th AKP budget. Six of these 11 budgets were directly IMF budgets -- one indirect, 2009 budget, the IMF budget -- and the rest is under close surveillance from the IMF, including the Central Future Program. These budgets were open for less than two per cent in 2003-2005 and 2011 compared to national income, so in terms of intracranial deficits -- they could have been successful -- within the nails. But it needs to be 2003-2004, so let's come closer, the budgets 2009 and 2010 were open for at least 3.6 per cent -- compared to national income. The 2012 budget was critical. The deficit, which will reach 2.5 per cent of the 2012 budget, was actually applied for serious purity revenues. The first one, as it is known, was obtained from the differences in the Central Bank's profits, which he had acquired in low currencies, had turned the reserves into profit by selling currency, and that was passed on to the treasury as a profit share. So that was this year's first purity income. Of course, there are other things: sales down payment on land 2/B, similar to this, the latest remains of tax peace and so on. So the way to save the budget, the way to save the deficits, is through extraordinary, beetic, non-permanent revenues. But there are other things. Starting in 2008, it is possible to define budgets as a whole. In fact, the way to prevent these budgets from being open, the growing deficits in crisis and so on, with pure revenues, for example, a significant portion of the resources are being transferred to the budget starting in 2008. So much so that over the last three or four years, more than the amount of funds that have been paid to the unemployed has been transferred from this fund to the budget. It's like this, of course, from the expense of the military to the time shift... look, this year's civil servants' salaries could be made in May. This is the first time we've seen anything like this. There have been no collective business talks for two years, and the time shift here has put pressure on expenses. Despite all that, the explanation seems to have taken its toll. There's a squeeze. The main reason for this squeeze, of course, is not just budget deficits; the first is the outside resource requirement, depending on the reduction of the capacity to create more, depending on the fact that current deficits don't pull down enough, etc. That's why you keep bringing up land sales for foreigners, bringing up public-private partnerships -- you're bringing up additional concessions -- as well as facilitating public investments and opening up subprime capitals and so on and so forth. So you can find a way to make it look like a rent-a-payment interest. All of this, in fact, on top of it, is the need for hot money, the captivity of hot money, and the fact that your money and finance policy has been set up for this. So, when you look at tax revenue, tax revenues have increased in Turkey, in your time, yes. But what's left? All that's left are indirect taxes. There's even an indirect tax increase in direct taxes to compensate for the reduction. Indirect taxes have reached the end of the road; capacity has been used to the full extent of the tax capacity. But there's a capacity for direct taxes, but we need to reform here. It takes courage to do this, it takes political power, it takes political will to do it, it takes getting rid of the political alliances of power today, my dear friends. That's why you can't do it. And since you can't, you continue fiscal anesthesia, you continue indirect tax easyness, you don't give up your search for pure income. So for 2013, you also rely on a high increase in taxes, new increases. You're probably going to increase the VAT rate, you're going to give the OTV a new increase, you're going to apply values coefficients on inflation, et cetera. Despite this, Turkey has not survived the double open risk. So up until now, it's been boasted that there's an external opening, but there's no opening. No, there's a Turkey moving fast on its inner open road. Of course, in fact, we're in a country that's facing triplets if we set the savings-investment balance. In the end, a strange situation arises: On the one hand, you spend this budget's revenues on the poorest, most stable, narrowest-income parts of the community; from these parts, you collect resources with indirect, 70 per cent indirect tax, but also from the indirect taxes on the poor, twice the weight on the rich; the reflection of the poor's budget is greater than twice as much, because they're growing. That's where you put the funding for the budget. Well, when it comes to taking advantage of the budget, the officer gets an increase in inflation, under the inflation of pensions, wages similar to agricultural benefits, similar to social benefits, which means budget resources go to secondary capital, which lends money to the capital. Look, you pay $50 billion interest from the treasure every year in a row. The interest costs of the budget don't go below 50 billion. You're bragging about what I'm doing, you're not finding 10 billion, you're staying at 9 billion. So, therefore, this is a neoliberal order, the neoliberal order of the AKP, this is AKP's capital order, this is AKP's injustice, developmental order, my dear friends. Of course, all of this -- in fact, as unfair as you are when you collect tax revenues, you maintain the same injustice as when you collect unusual incomes. I'll give you one example: 2/B, you try to sell the land of the poor villager at high prices, and in the end, because he can't get it, you're going after the land investors. I mean, such injustice, the desperation to provide resources through the poorest forest villagers in society, skinning their skins, is an incredible event. Now, about privatisation. Privatisation processes make all this much stronger. For one thing, it's causing massive social damage with the loss of employment, the decline of life levels. Second, it further enhances regional inequality and transfers property transfers of tax-related social assets to a number of subsidiaries. And, of course, all of this is happening under a major corruption story. So, 46 billion Turkey has privatised, 38 billion of that in your time, except for what TMSF has done, the Ministry of Transport has done, and if you count them as 10 billion, much of that is in your era. But despite all that, your budget deficits -- you've privatized $38 billion, you haven't collected 10 billion from cash -- won't cover three years, not even two years of the interest you're paying from your budget. Yeah, I mean, it's actually another thing. In Latin American countries, loans, foreign debts were paid with assets, stocks. And yours is an indirect loan-feeling exchange because the funds you transfer to the budget are used in debt payments, so sell the KITs, and pay the loans. So the debt-feeling bond exchange is a completely underdeveloped state phenomenon. This, of course, is a major robbery, both pointing to a major robbery and the opening of your neoliberal politics. I don't have time for examples of corruption, at least an hour. You know the SECA, you know TIPRASY -- there are two separate corruptions -- you know the Bay of Kusadasi, you know the Cesme, you know TEKEL Alcoholic, TEKEL Tobacco, ETI Aluminum Facility -- a process where even the Prime Minister is convicted -- but you're making a law against a bag of laws to get you out of here, and you're giving it to the Council of Ministers over their judicial decisions. This, my friends, is not a thing to be left to the High Court, nor is it a thing to be left to the Hereafter. We'll pay for this, dear friends. Let's give you the promise here to make this a time-consuming thing. You're, of course, doing a whole minaret-sized story, stealing and covering. All this bag of laws, all this public property, all this stealing, that's actually where it's at. I don't think this budget will bring you any good in that sense. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit01spe0040par0345	Thank you, Mr. Oyan. Congressmans, it's 14 o'clock. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0040par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2011 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Now, with the completion of the talks in the 12th round, talks on the 2nd article on income and financing were completed with the budgets of the ministry and relevant institutions, which included the 1st Articles of the 2013 Centre Management Budget Bill and the 2011 Central Management Computation Act. In accordance with the programme, we will discuss and vote on the provisions of the 2013 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2011 Central Management Computing Law drafts, respectively. Once I have the 1st article on the cost budget of the Central Management Budget Act of 2013 read again, I will submit it to your votes: PRODUCTION PRODUCTION OF ACTION OF 2013 Expenses, Arrives, Financing and Balance MADDE 1 - (1) Added to Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 10/12/2003, as shown in the tablet marked "A" (a); A) (I) Turkish Lira, 396,705,004,350 to public administrations under the general budget on the ruler, B) (III) private budgetary administrations include 45,002,167,100 Turkish liras, C) (III) editor-in-chief and auditory institutions have been granted 2,363,741.000 Turkish liras. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm rereading Article 2 of the income budget: In accordance with the Law (B), it is included in the Law No. 5018; A) (I) The income of the general budget on the ruler is 362.960.518,000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary administrations' income is 6,617.837.200 Turkish Lira, a total of 45,383,884.650 Turkish liras, including 38,766,047,450 Turkish Lira Treasury benefits, and a total of 45,383,884.650 Turkish liras. C) (III) is estimated to be 2,342,150,000 Turkish liras, totaling 2,363,741.000 Turkish liras, including $2,591.000 Turkish Liras in the regulator and auditory institutions on the table. (2) Financing: The net financing of special budgetary administrations on the table No. 5018 (II), as shown in these laws (F), has been estimated to be 125,296,000 Turkish liras. Now I'm going to have you read the chapters of the ruler, which is bound to the 2nd article, and I'm going to put them to your separate votes: C E T V E L CODE EXPLAINING 2013 BORDER [[TL]] 01 Tax revenues 347.890.019.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 9,233.225,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 2,046,203,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 25,163,320,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Capital Savings 9.302.153,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Collection 285,734,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. COMPANY BUILDING 393,920,654 000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Red and Returns ( - ) 30,960,136,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. NET BUILDING 362.960.518,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit the 2nd article to your votes, along with the extra ruler accepted: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Now, I'm going to read the third article: The difference between the sum of the first article (a) of the 1st article of this Law and the sum of estimated incomes (a) on the first part of Article 2 of Article 2 (a) is met with clear debt. Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on Article 3. Here you go, Mr. Rider.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0041par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, on behalf of my group on Article 3 of the bill, I hereby salute you all. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to start by taking a stroll and quoting the last 32 years of the Turkish economy. This quote belongs to Kenan Universe, the leader of the fascist junta, who testified, with a virtual view of the court he did not go to. According to the January 24, 1991 newspaper Milliyet, I had no doubt that those measures would have ended in failure if September 12 had not followed decisions called January 24th. With such a strict military regime, those measures have yielded fruit. These decisions, taken from the date of its name, were also announced in a package by Turgut Ozal prior to the coup. As of the date it was announced, the January 24th resolutions, which seemed not to be related to the coup, constituted the economic policy of the September 12th military coup. The decisions were so bitter that only a strict military regime was needed to be implemented, as Pasha said. So, what were those decisions? Why were the workers laughing until today, and now it's our turn to laugh? These decisions sum up: the value of the money has been reduced by 33 percent. The basic consumption goods, especially fuel, were raised after a raise. Customs doors are wide open. Imperialist exploitation and an invitation to loot. Foreign capital investments have been encouraged and profit transfers have been facilitated. Public investments were planned to be sold to domestic and foreign capital through privatisation. Admissions to agricultural products have been limited. Apart from fertilizer, energy and transport, subsidies have been removed. Reactions from the poor and laborers piles of pain that I had drawn the outlines of had also grown like an avalanche. Unfortunately, the response was not delayed, but answered with the bloody fist of the 12th of September fascist junta. On the first day of the coup, the Fascist junta had made its first move by raiding the tent of the strike workers. He banned union activities and strikes, and he's about to freeze the wages, of course. Turkey now aims to liquidate anything that belongs to the public through wild marketing, which has been distributed by labour organisations, increased in the form of illegal work, fueled by consumption. When the honorable MPs were under the pressure of September 12th, they couldn't keep their head down from running the ball and preparing for their own afterlife with great awe. The day came, saying, "The day has come." These are the AKP staffs and supporters who are in power today. AKP governments, which began with January 24th decisions, have even shown mercy to Fascism on September 12th in implementing these Neoliberal policies -- anti-employment, privatisation, debtor, loan shark, profiteer friend. This government was left to watch international capital buy tribute auctions and lock on the door of KİTESTs and become a monopoly in the market. This government has put the workers at the door, seized their rights, imposed 4/C slavery on the workers. This government has suppressed right-seeking workers in Ankara's icy air with water, baton, pepper spray. This government has subcontracted its working life, disintegrating labor organizations. This has commercialised public services, especially in power, education and health. The AKP, which has set up public goods in the interest of marketing, has also surrounded NGOs in a way that not even the fascist junta of September 12th has done, but has ignored them, if not from its own. The FİSKOBIRK, including the Media and Football Federation, has also made many civil organisations, such as the FİSKOBIRC, the manufacturers' units, the occupational organisations, to be supportive, suppressing every different sound in the community. The AKP, which said "No stopping," has also taken over universities, TÜBITAK and TÜBA (TİBA), and has sought out the AKP badge in science. Precious lawmakers, I quote the statement on the AKP's official website with the title "Record privatisation": Between 1986 and 2002, when the privatisation of institutions that were a burden to the state was $8 billion, we signed a $34 billion privatisation between 2003 and 2011. I want to draw your attention to the expression "burden to the state." For example, the year it was sold, sir, $7.2 billion was a tax-paying tax to the government, and the net profit was $300 million. For example, the TELOM, which pays its own installment with a year's profit, was a burden on the state, sir. The man paid off his four-year debt for shame at once, but they didn't even blush. Dear lawmakers, a man passes through a village on his way one day. The kids were playing marbles. One of the kids' marbles was pure gold. The guy thinks, how can I, how can I take the marble away from the kid, and he jumps in with the kids? Even though he knows his way around, he approaches the boy with the golden marble and says: "Baby, I'm going to the village, but I'm lost. Can you show me the way? The boy says, "Yes, uncle." He puts his gold marble in his pocket and takes him to the exit of the village. As for the exit, uncle, go straight from here, and you will reach that village. When the man puts his eye on the golden marble, he shows the boy the candy he took out of his pocket and says, "If I give you this candy, will you give it to me?" I'll give it to the boy, but on one condition. If you sing like a donkey, I'll give you this marble. He's looking to his right, he's looking to his left. There's no one here. Am I to be ashamed of such a child? On the other hand, the golden marble begins to speak. After he's finished, he says to the boy, "Come on, give me the marble." And the boy says, "Uncle Be, you're an ass and you know that marble is gold, but I don't know that I'm a human being?" I pay my respects, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0042par0068	Thank you, Mr. Rider. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0043par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've made a promise on the 3rd Amendment. On behalf of my party and myself, I salute you all. In my speech this morning, we summarized the general picture based on the 2013 budget. In one sentence: Turkey's economy is cut off from production. It is in a building that consumes more than it produces, and spends more than it earns. In such an economic structure, the public financial structure is not expected to be healthy, the financial structure is broken. There is no healthy income and there is no spending discipline. The 2012 budget was very painful. The $21 billion budget deficit is estimated to be 33 billion with a deviation of 60 per cent. Sadly, the next three years will already be years in which budget deficits will continue to increase. Cari, the deficit has been added. It was also discussed as the third open vortex, with savings deficits added. These deficits are placed on the back of citizens with high increases. In the last year, electricity has increased by 35 percent, natural gas by 49 percent, lead-free gas by 16 percent, engine by 17 percent, cigarette by 14 percent. In fact, Deputy Prime Minister Babacan gives us the good news of a new increase, stating that there will be small increases in 2013. As we all know, the head of financial discipline is the discipline of spending. The government brought in the fiscal disciplinary bill, but then withdrew it. If there's no spending discipline, there's no financial discipline. The government now needs to see that spending can be transparent and accountable, that spending can end wasteful, that there is harmony and coordination under the management of finance policies, but that there can be a healthy financial structure. The government doesn't even abide by simple financial discipline rules, let alone spending reforms. We're dealing with a government government that doesn't listen to the Finance Minister in public spending and the use of funds. If you don't listen to the Finance Minister, how are you going to implement finance policy? This must have been overwhelming for Mr. Finance Minister, who has publicly expressed this privilege in public, and in public, he has complained about some ministers who have disobeyed financial spending discipline, regulations, and that they are not complying with the rules of spending and funds. Mr. Finance Minister has started expressing the budget deficit since August, and explaining the budget deficits and the increase in expenditures, he explained that the increase in goods and services purchase costs has caused this, causing budget deficits for the costs of the school milk project. There were 130-140 million Turkish dollars spent on school milk, as it is known, some of them had been broken, some of them had been disturbed, and even the poor milk was passed on to children. Law enforcement that leads to 12 years of forced education, road construction, maintenance, repairs... which, of course, is a reason to increase budget deficits and spending -- because we've been doing it over the last few years -- many of these roads are being done without quality, so the maintenance needs are getting worse, so the maintenance needs are going up parallel to that, of course, the budget spending. These spending increases are then attached to the staff costs, to the earthquake dwellings in Van. Dear friends, none of these reasons are absolutely valid to us. It's hard not to see the other side of the locket when you're tying the deficit to those reasons. Counting the main causes of the budget deficit, unsanitary income and tax structure are unregistered economies, smuggling and wasteful spending. The government is scattering its budget resources. I'd like to give you a little example here because it's active. The OTV was reduced from 66% to 65 percent of tobacco products, which was issued on October 26, 2011 and by the Council of Ministers' Decision 2343 until December 31st 2012, so it will be increased by smoking on December 31st 2012. Stockbrokers who knew the opportunity began to stockpile cigarettes in October, and as a result, in October, the collection of ETV increased to $2 billion 908 million Turkish dollars, a huge increase from the same period last year to the 96 per cent. At this time, at least one increase occurred in the SVP, which was obtained from cigarettes. The government has offered the hoarders an opportunity by not publishing a new Council of Ministers decision. About 400 million Turkish liras in the state's VAT and ETV have unfortunately been transferred to hoarders, which means that the citizen's money, budget resources, has been useful to these hoarders. Now, the Deputy Prime Minister is primarily responsible for this, Mr. Ali Babacan, and the government's concerned economies ministers. If the government, the concerned, the authorities can't predict such a simple matter, what will they predict? Other examples of extravagance... covert funding is highly debated. Sir, we don't know where it's spent because it's covered and hidden. However, over the last five years, a billion 670 million Turkish liras are being spent. In eight months of 2012, there is a 587 million Turkish lira spending. The Prime Minister complains of wastefulness, wastefulness on September 4, 2009. The day we solve the economy of waste and the economy of efficiency, believe me, we are far beyond where we are now, but we will get rid of the economy of waste, says Prime Minister. Of course, Mr. Prime Minister talks about the waste of people's homes when he's trying to adjust everything, but he can't see the waste under his own administration. One of the most common areas of waste is public transportation, rental and use. Dear lawmakers, the issue of these public transports has been highly discussed and rightly criticised. Certainly, the government must take the final measures of this extravagance immediately in 2013, and it is very much in the eye of society. Today there are 90,000 public transports in Turkey; 12,000 in England; 10,000 in Japan; 9,000 in France. The 2013 budget envisions new 7.492 vehicle purchases, and many of these vehicles will be used as government vehicles, and many of them, unfortunately, are under rental means. Now, budget resources are officially shot and thrown, and terrible numbers are being rented from $1,140 a month to $10,860 a year. I invite those who rent cars at this outrageous price to be ashamed and to give up this practice. Again, various dwellings, service building rentals, and important examples of disintegration are the purchases of planes for the Prime Minister, the construction of white palaces and the disintegration of disintegration, when Mr. Babacan said that on September 11, 2011, Mr. Babacan had sent $100 million to Libya in four parts so that the plane wouldn't crash. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these thoughts, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0044par0090	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0045par0094	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on the budget of 2013. I salute you all. Now, you're wondering if I've got it in my hand. What I have in my hand, Madam Secretary, is gold. In the east, the hay is gold and yellow is yellow and yellow is yellow. So, I've talked a lot here, I've talked a lot as a person, I've tried to tell you, I haven't. Ben, 12/12/2012 hours 12 o'clock. I went to Rasim Özer's stable in Ardahan, to bring good luck. I went to his barn, and he was feeding his animals at work or something, and the cows started talking. They said to me, "You speak our language all the time, but if you speak our language, maybe they'll understand." Now, I've brought those cows' letters to the messenger, so that they don't get hurt. Yes, the poems are like this, the poems: The winter came, and it snowed, and we closed in the barn. No weed, no hay, no turds. Our owner wants meat from us, milk from us, He wants turds to warm up in the winter. No weed, no hay. It snowed, and we were hungry, and we were trapped in the barn. They were French for the rise of the peasant, They went and became knights in France. Bank executions killed the peasant. The living cow went for 5 TL per kilo. Two cows came down to a ton of hay, And all that was left was the town. They were French for the rise of the peasant, They went and became knights in France. They brought animals from France, and they finished us. They brought barley from the outside, they finished the weed. Two cows came down to a ton of hay, And all that was left was the town. They were French for the rise of the peasant, They went and became knights in France. Our ancestors wrote a great century on horseback, They brought Angus for the sacrifice, They fed the infected animals to the people. Two cows came down to a ton of hay, What's left is gone. They were French for the rise of the peasant, They went and became knights in France.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0046par0124	Is that what the cow says?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0045par0125	Yeah, he says nerds, honey, I got witnesses. Poor Yilmaz, journalist, I call your name from here. Our famous populace... Yeah, nerds are talking here, you don't listen to people talk anymore, you don't understand what I'm gonna do? I'm forced to speak the language of cows. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, when our famous public poet Yener Yilmazoglu heard this, he wrote a poem about it, sent it to me, and asked me to read it. My words are Mehdi Eker. But how did you end the peasant? Debts for execution, no sugar in the house. But how did you end the peasant? A heavy wound inside our village. I get it, you can't help it. Five hundred dollars for the cow, $1,000 for the hay. But how did you end the peasant? You said imported, you brought the Anguses. You said it was cheap, and you fed it to me. You took away everything you had. But how did you end the peasant? The election-to-election ballot box. You made an inconsistencies promise to the light of day. Yilmazoglu, you've fooled the rationale. But how did you end the peasant? You took him to the cemetery before he died. Dear friends, now the cows are hungry, the night is minus 25 degrees, 30 degrees. No weed, no hay. You left this country in need of weed and hay. So can you imagine, you import barley from France, you import meat from France, you import animals from France, you sink your own village, you go and become knights. Is that logic or intelligence or what? Now look, here is Ardahan's central Shadowli village, who wrote a letter from the head of the village of Shadowli. He wrote it in the local press, and I read it there. Shadowli Village Mukhtar Osman Yilmaz says there are 20 cows. If I sell 10 of them, I'll feed 10 of them, and 10 of them will make about 7 or 8 billion dollars. Yeah, 10 nerds don't pay a congressman's salary, can you imagine the situation with the villagers? Now, here's our head of the Chamber of Agriculture, Latifşah Waters...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0047par0149	How many general managers does that pay, how many general managers?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0045par0150	Here... The head of the Chamber of Agriculture, Latifşah Sular, also held a press conference, saying that the world will not be yours, as if he had dreamt of the Prime Minister, as if he were a padishah. Dear friends, let me tell you, we're really running out of time, but right now, the farmer, the peasant, is devastated. Look, you know what the animals say here? You're eating our meat, you're defending human rights. Why don't you defend animal rights? Yes, they say that. The skins you're sitting on now are animal skin, and the shoes you're wearing are animal skin, but there's no animal rights, there's no human rights, there's no human rights. Human rights, but also animal rights. Right now, man... the animals are hungry. Look, I'll give you a name, Rasim Ozer says from Ardahan central village: I can't feed my cows. I have to give you hay three times a day, and I give you less than twice. When the animals see me, they weep. He says. Does the animal cry? Yes, it is. Now, you're alive, and they're alive. Can you guys stop eating? No, you can't stop. Look, my dear friends, here I am speaking to my Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey. Mr. Mehdi Eker, you are the minister of the state of the Republic of Turkey. If it floods, if it rains hail, it's a disaster. Now, I'm asking you. Take East Anatolia as a disaster -- look, I'm telling you here -- for the first time in a hundred years, livestock has hit rock bottom, my friends. Hold on tight now, I'm telling you straight out: Mayor Ali Yekin called, one animal, one live cow, down to $3.5 a pound. A living cow weighs $3.5 a pound, guys, can that be a thing? Look, I'm naming names, that's what the mayor says. I called and confirmed other friends. Dear friends, you're actually seeing East Anatolia on TV right now, under snow and winter, minus 25-30 degrees, so if you're a man, go stay there for a week, then tell me after that. Dear friends, I ask you here, Mr. Minister, and the Prime Minister, to ask East Anatolian, Kars, Ardahan, Iğdır, Erzurum, Ağrum, Ağrım, Van, East Anatolian areas, the areas that feed Turkey, the areas that are feeding Turkey, the areas that are feeding Turkey, the areas that are feeding Turkey, the areas that are providing hay for the citizens. Guys, the price of animals has gone down because hay is worth a lot of money. The animal isn't worth anything, take it to the town, $3.5 pounds of living animals, but the butcher's still got 30 lira, $25, so there's this imbalance, so in that sense, I'm asking. Now, there's an application in this area that the Department of Agriculture has postponed loans at 5% interest, friends. Now the bait pays their money, the bait cuts off their overdue loans. Brother, you put it off a year from now, why are you taking the money you'll get a year from now? Then why'd you postpone it, plus five percent interest? In that sense, I'm trying to convey people's problems to me. Mr. Minister, you are the Minister of Finance, and you put nine billion dollars in this year's budget, close to 9 billion to social aid, and you put 9 billion in order to develop livestock and agriculture. So you spend as much money on animalism as you spend on social aid to make people beg and make people needy for yourself. You're bringing animals from France, Germany, Austria, Uruguay, America, you're paying about 3 billion outside, you're not paying our own village. The peasant is miserable, in trouble.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0048par0159	That's what you've been saying for ten years. That's what you've been saying for ten years.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0045par0160	Dear friends, I won't put it here because I respect the bench, but this straw weighs 1,200 liras a pound, Mr. Secretary. This straw will come from time to time, and your salary won't be enough. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0049par0163	How much does he weigh?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0050par0164	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. On behalf of his people, Manisa MP Muzafer Citizen. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Citizen.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0051par0168	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on my own behalf on Article 3 of the 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill. I salute your high council and our beloved nation. When we were doing the budget, we were thinking about how we could just hand out what we got from the community. That's why our ten-year-old party has been in power, and every election he's been in, he's been grateful to the nation. We have not given to anyone the share of an orphan, nor the poor, nor shall they be fed. Democracy and economics go to the horseman. Where there's no democracy, the economy is at risk. Our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his friends made this journey 11 years ago called,bismillah. It wasn't easy. From the very first day, nothing will ever be the same. We will pay the price ourselves if we have to, but we will not make our nation pay. We said, and we have not made them pay. There's only $860 million left in $23.5 billion in IMF debt. We've become a country that helps, not a country that opens hands. There were $27.5 billion reserves in the Central Bank, and it's now up to $19 billion. If you save the state from corruption, this is where you come. It may seem easy to talk about where you are today, but looking back on those days, it wasn't the kind of job that any father-in-law could do to handle cases like Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, Poyrazköy, the Irtica Action Plan and the Internet Ander, but the AK PARTI did. We've touched the untold untold unto this day, and we'll continue to touch. We have not taken orders from anyone other than the people, nor have we obeyed anyone, nor will we bow down. As the immutable subject of all of our programs, we called it the nation first. We never compromised our country's service point. As we traveled through democracy and freedom, as our economy grew, as our dignity grew, our politics became more accepted.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0052par0174	Well, well!
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0051par0175	We didn't use another political language in the east, in the west, we won't use it. Just as we were happy taking service to the east of our country, to the south, to the west, to the north, to the south, we had the same feeling of happiness. With all these developments, we will never allow anyone to operate on our heavenly homeland. We will never allow anyone to look at our moon-star flag, whose color is in the blood of our martyrs. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In the 100th year of the founding of our Republic, in 2023, we will become one of the 10 largest economies in the world. In the case of Ergenekon organization, which was seen last Thursday in Silivri, some political parties, along with the Marxist Ergenekonist Workers' Party and violent paramilitary organisations stormed the criminal court. This action is an illegal act of violence in every way. You can't run into a major opposition party who talks about law and judgment at every turn in any democracy in the world. In the heart of our politics, both the word and the decision belong to the nation. In our struggle against those who scorned the people, we found our people with us. Hopefully, from now on, we'll never compromise that understanding, but we'll keep our conversation with our nation stronger. We will build new ponds with the 1,000 Pond Project in 1,000 days across our country, a country of agriculture and industry. We'll turn our country into a lake zone. No one's being held hostage at hospital doors anymore. The infant mortality rates have improved to better European levels. With the 444 education system, we opened the way for our young people. In this land, we are teaching our children and young people the life of the Qur'an and the life of our Prophet, while our people were once afraid to say "Allah," while reading the Qur'an in secret and hiding. Praise be to God, we have a Prime Minister who reads the Koran at his mother's funeral and takes full notes from Egyptian scholars. Yes, they mixed the straw with the handle here, and I'd like to answer with this poem: You are a man who has learned from him, and from Jonah. You're the greatest wish ever to be reached. You're a bracelet of unrelenting brass that has won victories. ♪ You're a bright light, a bubbling flood ♪ A grandson of Fatih, of Yavuz, of Osman Gazi. You've found your way in tears The privates are your lineage. You are the nation of the Merciful Prophet Muhammad. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0053par0197	Thank you, Citizen. On behalf of him, Antalya MP Mehmet Günal...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0054par0199	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0053par0200	Here you are, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0054par0201	There's teasing our band. We were in Silivri, and were there to condemn the lawless. He mentioned a raid, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0053par0203	Here you are, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0054par0204	On behalf of our group, Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk will answer.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0053par0205	Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0055par0208	Mr. President, our dear lawmakers, speaking on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, have called the opposition of a group of Republican People's Party lawmakers, including members of the Republican People's Party's Party, a raid on the Silivri courts. This is not a very proper approach, nor is it legal. First of all, what democratic law state in this country has judges who make defenceless judgments without lawyers? In what democratic law state of the world is there a judge who says, "You're disrupting the trial against a lawyer who wants to use his right to defend himself?" In what country of the world are there courts that would study millions of documents in 13 days to discuss the original? First of all, it's against the law. Today, the provisions of this Parliament's Criminal Judiciary Law are not implemented, let alone the laws of international law. We've said so many times on this bench, and those who don't do it, my dear, let go of the way, look at the basics, it's important. How do you know if it's really important? You're going to make a mistrial, and then you're going to say, "These people are terrorists." Of course, in the AKP era, anyone who opposes AKP power is a terrorist. The people who want free education are terrorists, the MPs are terrorists, the terrorists are human rights activists, the hero of democracy. My dear friends, first we must oppose the law, we must all oppose it. This approach, it's not a proper style.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0056par0213	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0057par0214	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0056par0215	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0057par0216	Mr. Speaker, in one sentence of his speech, anyone who opposes the power of the AKP PARTI is a terrorist, and those who are being tried are being tried for it. I'd like to fill you in on that.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0056par0217	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0057par0220	Mr. President, there's been a trial in Turkey for many years. This court has been working on an indictment for about four or five years. We have made arrangements for this indictment, and Mr. Ozturk has just expressed it. As law, we make the law as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and then the enforcers continue. So even if the practicers don't consider a criminal act or the law to be a crime -- I'm telling you, I'm saying it in a more extravagant way -- if there's an intervention in the judiciary, if there's an action involved, it's a contradiction to identify it with the power of the AK PARTI. He does the judicial work, he does the judicial work right or wrong, but it's a great injustice to try to associate a judicial work with the AK PARTI government, to integrate it, to judge the judiciary as if it were part of the AK PARTI. But under this injustice, judgment is the result of an assumption that, in the process of having a second address, a back yard, the same actions were carried out by the AK PARTI. No one can say this, we make the law, it's our duty as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the practice of these laws is subject to the office, the judiciary. When we look at it in that sense, it is a great injustice to the AK PARTI, against the ruling, against the votes of the nation, to consider those who were charged with the Ergenekon indictment as anti-AK PARTI opponents. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0058par0224	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2013 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The Ministry of Public Works and Housing 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2011 THE PRESIDENT OF PRIVATE CONTROL [[Continue]] 1) The President of the Special Environment Protection Agency for 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Finance Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The chairman of the IRS is the Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The President of the IRS's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) The Public Contraction Agency's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Public Contractor's Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The President of the Privatisation Administration's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Privatisation Administration President's Final Account for 2011 Central Management STUDIES OF CAMU OBSERVATION, MUHASEBE AND EXPERIENCE STANDARTS [[Continue]] 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2013 Central Management Budget Antalya MP Mehmet Günal. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0059par0261	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. I have made a personal pledge on the matter. Dear friends, as I was listening to Mr. Lightning, again, I was surprised to hear that it was as if the minimum wagers were in very good condition, only 1 percent of the tax is being taxed. So, Mr. Secretary, you're putting the rate of tax on this place, but isn't the SVR, which you just raised in September, paying minimum wage for VAT? I mean, who pays the tax on private communication, the VAT, which is paid in food? Now, we're falling into a fundamental dilemma here, dear friends. These are very important rates in those people's budgets, and I've told you over and over again, tax injustice is here. Less than less than the winner, more than the winner, more than what's already here, whether it's on the payday, less than the minimum wage, less than 10% in his budget, the middle income you're talking about is 1% in your contractors. It wouldn't be the same with the 10 percent tax increase you're putting in there now, Mr. Secretary. So maybe what you're saying as a ratio is true. It's one thing that the number is right, but what it means is that it's something else in terms of minimum wage, and you've made that clear. Before the numbers came in on the budget, when you were giving the OVP statement, when you were actually saying the reason for the increase in taxes, you said, well, there's no budget. Why? Some of our ministers, despite our written warnings, do not listen and spend on the grant. ▪ What else will we do about the increase in taxes? We're also going to do the natural gas, electricity increases that we've delayed so far, because we need money. Okay, fine, but we said the citizen is paying the bill. He's already got a income injustice. Our friends explain it very well, and they all get the number: (Sir, the last 20 percent has increased to this much.) So, what happened to the last 5 percent? What is the gap between the top five percent and the bottom five percent? No one's looking at him. Beyond 5%, there are 10 per cent and 5 per cent in income distribution. The bottom one's getting killed. Especially with the taxes we get, with the WTV increase, with the VAT increase, that's where the trouble comes. Dear friends, here you are now making a change in the decree of the law on employees from one side, which is not protected from their rights, and on the other hand, we are constantly putting a tax burden on the underdogs. Mr. Secretary, they gave it to you, but it's been here for years. There's no test for a change of title, not even for an assistant service, to skip a class. We're standing here, putting in a lot of stuff, putting in a service class, why doesn't he put in a finance service class? We're pulling all the loads as finance workers. He says our friends from TÜRK BURO-SEN sent them. The workers have become even more victims within the institutional structure, as they look at our post-KHK victims as they see fit to repair them. Dear friends, we need to settle this fairly. Look, we can't just look at our heads in the sand and ignore the problems and pretend it's okay. If you say: "What shall we do?" There are certain measures that must be taken here, and we can't do it without providing this tax justice. That's why... The Minister speaks well, and he said in the Budget Commission, sir, that we are working on this income tax law. It's beautiful. We're going to make a preparations for this, we're doing this... now that we're listening, we're assuming that it's the new government in 2011. It's as if he hasn't had it in ten years, as if he hadn't put it in the first three months of Emergency Action Plan called tax reform... so we're doing the 11th budget that's been over ten years, which is still in the Emergency Action Plan. Oh, we have no objection to that. If there is one thing, we say that we, the National Movement Party, have always favoured constructive, guiding, compromised opposition. Let alone these virtual agendas, leave them here. There was no hunger strike. There was no hunger strike. We'll give them to them. We'll give them to them. We'll do this. He must have been touched by them, too! Let's get these out of here, not in the last day, not in the last week, but anyway, let's take measures to ease the public's real agenda, the agenda of our citizens, the oppressed citizens, the burden of all the burdens on this budget, the citizens who carry the burden of deficits, to bring them to a minimum level of prosperity, to increase their income. These don't feed any of our citizens. So, in this framework, really, let's take the tax from the winner, reduce the tax from the low income, and as we go up, we'll build a fair tax system, and I'll give you all a lot of respect.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0060par0270	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Moving on to QA. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0061par0273	Thank you, Mr. President. According to the population, 80 per cent of these tax revenues were distributed according to the development index, according to the population. The forest and mountain counties, such as Feke, Saimbeyli, Tuğtbeyli, are really far behind, since other districts of the last Metropolitan Law are also involved. There's been a cut of $38,000 on this winter's day. Under the circumstances, they couldn't even pay their labor money. Do you plan to do a study of these in the winter in this snow? And my second question is, now, we've said over and over again that it's very high on these 2/B fields. Especially in Aladağ, Akpınar, Başpınar, and again, when we opposed them in Pozant, and in Karaisan, there came a second team. At 9,000 liras an acre, 12,000 lira was determined, and after our objection, it fell to 4-6. These numbers are supposed to be lower, but the statement is, if we lower them, we'll be financially responsible for the prices set earlier.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0062par0277	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0063par0279	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in 2011 and 2012, how many vehicles were rented in public institutions and institutions, and how much were paid in total? Also, does the treasure pay for the fuel costs of these vehicles? If the treasure is paying, how much money was spent on it? How many of the rental vehicles are still armored vehicles, and who drives these armored vehicles? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0064par0282	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0065par0284	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what was the estimate of the budget deficit you predicted with the 2012 budget? What's going to happen approximately from now on? How much more is this gap going to be than you predicted? My second question: The government provides a significant portion of its budget revenues from indirect taxes. When we think of indirect taxes, we think of oil products first. In many oil stations, we face poor diesel signs. Do oil stations sell cheap diesels have oil wells, or do they sell illegal diesels? You're overseeing these? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0066par0288	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0067par0290	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we're negotiating a rising budget of indirect taxes. The indirect taxes from the rich and the poor are equally unfair. In this framework, for years, has the tax burden of a citizen increased or decreased in proportion to the last ten years? What are the odds? Another question is: Even though he owns a new building, although he built huge buildings, there are allegations about renting out ministries and public institutions that build new buildings, such as the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. Is it true that the owners of the rental buildings are close to your party and that the buildings are rented at an exorbitant price?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0068par0293	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0069par0295	Mr. President, thank you. Especially in Adana, and in their districts, you use your political guardianship to collect taxes on the matrah, without examining it. Is that true or fair? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0070par0298	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0071par0300	Thank you. Mr. Minister, with the amendment of title among the national real estate inspectors and tax inspectors who are doing the same job, as a result of regulations on the rights of employees who work as civil servants in Article 659 and 666, the difference between the state property experts and the state property experts has been set at about 1,500 lira. As a result of six tests carried out by the IRS, 15,000 civil servants were given the title of a gestation expert, and 600 lira increase, but no right has been granted to national real estate workers in similar circumstances. Therefore, the employees of the national real estate agency have a major demoralisation. Are you planning on doing something about it? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0072par0303	Thank you, Mr. Belen. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0073par0305	Thank you, Mayor. It also appeared to the press and public in November when the Prime Minister's office in parliament, which he used several times a month, was renovated from top to bottom for $330,500. Parliament Speaker Mehmet Satın said the expenditures were covered by the budget law of 2012 and the budget for Turkey's Grand National Assembly Business and Production President. It is also said that the Prime Minister was ordered to take the seventh plane. In addition, the room of Parliament Speaker Cicek was made for $180,000. Don't you think it's a waste to spend money on a debt-dwelling citizen with raises and indirect taxes? During your administration, it has become common to use a rental car in public. Besides, do you think it's possible that there are thousands of new vehicles in public each year and 6,488 new vehicles in 2013...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0074par0309	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0075par0311	Thank you, Mr. President. First, there's a lot of criticism and a lot of questions about these vehicles, so if you'll excuse me, I'd like to start with that. Now, dear friends, as of June 2012, the number of vehicles was 90,024, the total number of vehicles in the public. This represents an increase of about 4,400 compared to 2002.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0076par0314	They're all covered in civilian plates, Mr. Secretary. Why are they wearing civilian plates, why are they faking it?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0075par0315	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0077par0316	Go ahead, Mr. Secretary, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0075par0317	Now, dear friends, when you look at this 90,000-pound stockpile of cars, the number of vehicles available to the police, the Ministry of National Defence and the gendarmes is 60 percent of the total vehicles. It's essential, it's supposed to exist, and then the Ministry of Health comes. So here's the National Department of Defense, 20,702, 32,839 of the Police Headquarters, 6,317 of the Ministry of Health, 4,646 of Agriculture, Food Animalism, 3,282 of universities, so when you actually look at these tools, you'll actually see that they are, in fact, a significant amount of service tools. When you look at the dump of vehicles in 2013, ambulances are 21.1 percent, bus, van, truck service vehicles are 55.2 percent, when you look at vehicles such as motorcycles and bicycles and so on, it's 3.3 percent. Yes, riding cars are 20.7 per cent, about 1,500 per cent, but also a large part of them are vehicles for the police. But, despite all of that, I appreciate the sensitivity in this matter, and that's why we, the Treasury Department, have drafted a vehicle law and sent it to the Prime Minister to ask the opinion of all institutions. As soon as it's complete, I'll bring it here and I'll actually control all the processes, including rentals, under the control of the Treasury Department... it's not under our control right now. All institutions have a budget for buying goods and services. You can rent a car from the service budget, so we don't have to be allowed to do that. Of course it's necessary for us to buy a car, but otherwise, dear friends, it's not coming to us. That's what cars are all about. You're sensitive, and I'm sensitive. Hopefully, this arrangement will open up, and we'll come, and we'll work it out. But most of the vehicles are service-quality tools. Now, dear friends...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0078par0319	You didn't tell me the number of rentals.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0075par0320	Dear friends, that's what I'm saying...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0078par0321	Isn't it obvious?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0075par0322	We don't have the numbers because we don't need our permission, because they're taking from the budget and services. Now, dear friends, in accordance with the recent Metropolitan Law...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0079par0324	Mr. Secretary, what's the number of armored vehicles?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0075par0325	Dear friends, if they do, I'll let you know. We're here for a few days, and I'll share these numbers with you as soon as they come in. If you'll excuse me, I'll move on to the other questions. Now, the change in local government shares, of course, was made by a law, but it's regulated by a law, dear friends. As Minister of Finance, I am responsible for implementing the existing laws, so whatever the law dictates, we send the shares. But I can tell you that the shares that we've passed to municipalities, believe me, have been increased from 4 per cent to 8 per cent since 2002. Now, I've ordered the vehicles. What was our budget deficit forecast? Our budget deficit estimate, if I remember correctly, was $21.1 billion. Of course, our recent arrangement has increased to about 33.5 billion liras. There is a serious deviation in the budget deficit. I explained that in detail, we need it here in the Plan and Budget Commission. But, this deviation...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0080par0331	Mr. Secretary, your time is up, but I'll give you one more minute to explain. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0075par0333	Thank you, Mr. President. The size of this deviation in the income foot is extremely limited. So, despite all this relatively negative global and internal conjuncturing, there's no major deviation in the income leg, but you're making a particular plan for some kind of staff fees, especially in infrastructure investments, education and so on, and then there's a collective contract, and there's a difference that comes in the framework of that contract. When you consider all of this, of course, there's a huge amount of deviation that comes from spending. They're a big part of it, like I said, out of our control, so there's people coming out of the collective contract. For example, we have to transfer additional items to the local authorities as a share. In this frame, we need to evaluate this gap...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0080par0336	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. MADDE 4- (1) The rules of this Law have been shown below: A) The distribution of the grants provided by Article 1 of this Law (A). B) incomes to continue collecting according to the legislation related to public administrations under central management (B). C) Basic provisions (C) based on the revenues of public administrations under the central administration. ) The basis for the use and expenditure of some funds (E). D) Adds to Law 5018 (II) and (III) management and institutions (F) are estimated to be spent on these opportunities with the cash available to them (F). e) daily and reparations in accordance with Articles 10/2/1954 and Law 6245 (H). f) Financial and other limits (I) that must be shown in the budget law according to various laws and laws. On the fourth article, Giresun MP Selahtin Karaahmetoğlu on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Karaahmetoglu.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0081par0350	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on Article 4 of the 2013 Central Management Budget Act. I salute you all. The three basic balances of the Turkish economy are also clear. The public sector, the private sector and the external balance gaps, which lead to instability and extreme vulnerability in the macroeconomic balances of Turkey's economy, makes it mandatory to implement policies that will give more to close these gaps in the future. The explanation is that future generations will be born in debt and poorer. We're continuing budget negotiations. In the end, the budget will be adopted by the votes of the numerical majority. The Prime Minister tried to prove the budget was successful in his budget speech with technical information and numerical values. Voting as part of the scenario, the political majority has convinced itself of the reasons described in their own way. Is that how it really is? Mr. Prime Minister says that the right proportion between democratisation and economics has become unquestionably clear in light of our experience. I want to evaluate it. We say that we are the world's 16th largest economy, but according to the United Nations Human Development Report, we are the 67th country in the world in terms of national income per capita. In terms of the results of the human development index, our country is ranked 92. In 2003-2007, the government did not make good use of the conjunctural opportunities offered by the world economy. Rather than private and public fixed capital investments that will increase the economy's production and export capacity, it has been directed to private consumption. Economic conditions based on external resources deepen Turkey's existing structural problems. In 2002, Turkey's economy was 0.6 billion dollars short, with 77.4 billion dollars open in September 2000. In the post-2003 period, the current deficit of transactions has also increased rapidly in parallel with the growth rate, while in the period when growth slows down in the economy, the current trend has continued to increase in the open. That doesn't confirm the Prime Minister's statements. I want to evaluate the status of different classes and layers of society. Before 1980, our country of 44 million people had 2.5 million union workers. Today there are 600,000 union workers in our 75 million-strong country. On average, 1,100 workers die in business accidents a year. In business accidents, we are Europe's first, the world's third. We're the 2nd in the world to employ child laborers. Our workers who work for very low wages under unhealthy, unsecured conditions are also obliged to say this because of fear of losing their jobs. The process of subcontractor work has rapidly increased, and the system's economic problems are tried to be brutally closed off from its employees. The union rights won when talking about union freedoms are also corroded. Our agriculture and our manufacturers are not different. Our agriculture, which we prided ourselves on being one of the seven self-sufficient countries of the world, has become dependent on the outside. As agricultural inputs rose, the producers' profits grew smaller and smaller. Chinese beans, apricots, garlic; South Africa to satsuma tangerines; Chile to table grapes, apples, apples, raisins; spinach from Italy; melons from Costa Rica; apples from Argentina, corn from Bulgaria; lettuce from Spain; dried apricots, cabbage, watermelon from Iran; wheat from Ukraine; cotton from Greece; corn from the United States; corn from Canada; and rice from Canada. In livestock, we now import animals, sacrificial sheep, and hay. Now we're losing our agricultural export advantages. What, the fertile Anatolian land didn't give away these crops? No. There's only one reason. It's a policy to give up agriculture and make the country dependent on the outside as a price for coming to power and staying in power. The nuts that we are the world's leaders in production and exports are a product of agricultural export pens that do their job well. Mr. Minister of Agriculture boasted that the record of the nut revenues did not pay off the manufacturer's labor. In 2006, the Nuts were processed at $5 in our time. At the beginning of this season, the nut manufacturers will evaluate your statements for $2.3 in the market for nuts. As a result of the Don disaster, you also prevented the manufacturers from receiving 150 million in leftovers by law. Mr. Prime Minister, who winked at the monopoly, said the period of the local market is over, has shown his position in favor of capital by ignoring thousands of small tradesmen. Our tradesmen can't afford it, bankruptcy has accelerated, and the shutters continue to close. Retired widows and orphans continue to fight poverty. We are the first in the world in human rights violations, the third in the world in child molestation and rapes, the first in the world in women's murders. As a result of a meeting of the European Judiciary Union in Washington, the judiciary supported our views. We are the world's third in corruption, world champions in the number of arrested journalists, the world's third in injustice in income distribution. We're the country that has the highest rate of private consumption tax in the world. The result is that our people consume the world's most expensive gas, diesel, electricity, and natural gas. 20 million of our people live in poverty and hunger. When the AKP came to power, the number of dollar billionaires, the number of dollars, has now reached 40. Millions of people hunger and poverty have transferred what they have to these 40 families with government finance policy tools. It is your government that has created them. During the 809-year period of the republic, large capital groups did not provide as much capital and profit as in the ten-year period of AKP power. In fact, the AKP is a representative of the financial oligarchy, a large capital party, although it tries to appear in favor of the public by exploiting its beliefs with the traditional way of life. Our struggle for free individuals, organised society, democratic state continues to be blocked. In short, the large, hardworking populations continue to pay the price for the system, for capital to solve problems. There are significant changes in the state's structure. The Prime Minister and his party have created a oppressive regime to solve problems, which perceives surrender as a change to get to the point that global forces want. Those who were displeased with the practices saw enemies, and divided the people. It is impossible for those who are not at peace with their own people to be at peace with other peoples. Throughout the history of the Republic, you have created a country in which Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has rejected our policies trying to live together in peace with his neighbours and respected the sovereignty rights of all world states, especially his neighbours. You've risen to subcontract for the demands of global forces, the democratic, human rights and freedoms discussed in your own country. Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Davutoglu says we have fundamental differences with the Republican People's Party when we look at events in foreign policy in the budget talks. That's right, I agree. The Republican People's Party is an anti-empiralist party based on its historical mission and character. AKP is also the party that comes to power and subcontracts with the support of imperialism. Therefore, it is normal to have such a difference. Mr. Davutoglu says we look at the region with our heart. If you really look at the area with your heart, you won't be screaming for war. Those with hearts are those who oppose war. What you have is an artificial heart. You're not looking at the area with your heart, you're looking at the vault of global capital. Our model country for the oppressed nations has been exporting counter-revolution by interfering with the internal affairs of other countries. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm curious if you'll create and support opposition groups to Qatar and Saudi Arabia and bring democracy here! In a painting like this, it's impossible to say that democratization is the right proportion of the economy. It is clear that this budget, which will be a small budget in our budget history, will bring blessings. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0082par0382	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0083par0386	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Just as every year, the memorial of the day of his death, which he considered to be his true lover seven hundred and thirty and thirty nine years ago, the ceremony of Shebiarus is being performed in Constantinople. He remembers the Lord with mercy and gratitude, and I say, "God bless him." The ceremony was held on Saturday (December 15th) with contributions from the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality. Again, invitations have shown that some districts and districts have the same name as theirs. The government's failure to support such programs should, on the contrary, be stopped. He said, "Come to the world." The AKP government says, "Go to Istanbul." Work can and must be done at all times and elsewhere in order to remember and understand the Lord. It is important to teach the philosophy of life and pass it on to future generations. However, it must be known and appreciated that the right to hold a ceremony on the basis of the Memorial of the Day of Shebiarus belongs to Konya. As I said earlier: It is not right to perform the Haci Bektas ceremony in Hadjibektas, except in Konya, as it is not right to do the memorial events of Osman Gazi, which were held in Bursa. Will the AKP's Government and İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality also support the memorial march of the Sarıkamis Martyrs in Tirana, the expulsion of Manisa (substantial mesir paste) from New Mosque, and the execution of Kırkpınar wrestling at the Olympic Stadium? Of course it's meaningless and wrong. Look what Arif Nihat, a Sufi as well as a poet, says in his poem "From Kubbe-i Hadra" by Avlevi disciples: Each skirt is tennure, Every sentence is a chapter. Every kind of attitude means, So it's the host of the lconium. But the roads aren't empty, Every breath is what, Every green dome means Hadra, So it's the host of the lconium. When the Turk took Asia, The Walrus said, "Iconians, It's an invasion. So it's the host of the lconium. This is the sky of the earth. He won't come back empty here, There's no "la" here, So it's the host of the lconium. The snow turns, the wind turns, The road turns, the road turns, No exceptions. It means "Masculina" in the lconium. I repeat: With the support of the government and the AKP's İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality, the ceremony of Shebiarus in Istanbul has been unfair to Konya. The traditionalisation of this ceremony will do even more harm to the lconia. It must be stopped. Dear MPs, some openings were held yesterday by the Prime Minister in Iconya. The Indians always know how to thank you if a service is performed, but the opening is so greatly exaggerated that most of the routine services, which do not require such presentation, are already explained. Believe me, the cost of the ceremony, the money of media and billboard ads for publicity, could also be compensated for another lack of Konya. At the ceremony, the Mayor of Iconia Metropolitan speaks of hundreds of facilities openings. You must first take care of Shebiarus, and the internal traffic in the city has become a major problem. What happened to the promise that both 2004 and 2009, before the local elections, the Iconium would be restored to the subway, to the rail system? Cities such as Kayseri, Antalya, Bursa, Adana, Samsun, Eskişehir, Gaziantep have gained considerable distance. Why is the cognac left behind? First you have to answer for this. The Iconian Outer Environment Way Project has also become a mystery. Still no movement. Why hasn't it been done in years? We're going to make a European team. What league is Konyaspor now and why? First you have to account for these. The AKP government has set 28 cultural and tourism protection and development zones in 20 counties, and tourism investments around here are being encouraged by the 5th district. The AKP government hasn't even seen the Holy Office. Why isn't our capital city for culture and faith tourism among them? Why don't they encourage tourism investments in Iconia in the 5th district? Have you asked the Prime Minister, Minister of Culture and Tourism about this injustice? At the ceremony, the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs says they've invested $2.5 billion in Konya for ten years. And he's blown up the numbers pretty good. So how much resources did you transfer to the GAP with the same properties as KOP? I'll tell you: In 2008, you gave 26 billion dollars for five years with the GAP Action Plan you agreed to. Why haven't you accepted the KOP Action Plan for five years? Why haven't you prepared a new project for ten years that will bring water from other basins to meet the alarmous water supply of the Plain of the Conium? Why haven't you formed the KOP administration staff in a year and a half? Pay the Konians for this. The AKP government has laid out 15 highway projects for 5,550km, but none of them are coming to Iconium. Iconia has been demanding civilian airports for years, but there are many, you don't. It's called. The Konian industrialist and exporter are waiting for the new two-line Conium-Mersin railway to reach the port, asking for a logistical center. There's been promises for years, and they're still gone. The AKP has even blocked the return to the technical university but the new university, founded by Selçuk University, is being tried to be sold to the Konians. Iconia is waiting for this as an investment. So there's no point in saying, "This is how many facilities we're opening." Dear lawmakers, the 4th article in which we are discussing is being taken away from the rights of the guards and security guards. Under the 51st Article of City Law 5393, there were no actual security and security personnel on the K table of the previous years of budget laws, but it was not included in the K ruler of this year. Therefore, security and protection officers who carry out their duties for 24 hours are to be victimized according to Law 5393, who have the right to receive overtime. According to a reason issued by the Finance Ministry, it has been stated that this has been made according to the regulation of the Court of Law No. 666. There is no regulation of the rule of law on K, and there is no jurisdiction and there is no authority for that. Because the 51st article of City Law 5393 is paid in the amount of the victim determined by the municipal council's decision to not cross the higher limit set in the budget law as an actual overtime fee for employees of the city's police and private security services. With that rule in the law, this sentence cannot be changed. Therefore, the K-book requires the protection and security personnel of the victim's overtime fee for police and fire personnel. Protection and security personnel will be wrongfully victimized despite the open and superior decree found in Law 5393. Is there any good for you except the one who does not have the means to do good for himself? Employees working for the Ministry of Finance and the Finance Administration were paid 100 hours of overtime as a overtime fee until 2012, when economic crises were at its deepest. In 2011, however, additional indicators and salaries of all managers and experts, except for the income experts and bookkeeping experts, were increased by the KHK. These staffs don't need overtime anymore. On the other hand, income experts and bookkeeping experts who work for the Finance Ministry and the IRS Administration have not been improved both for their rights and their overtime has been removed. I wish the budget would be a blessing, and I pay my respects. (Applause from MHP rows)
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0084par0425	Thank you, Mr. Kalayci. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Van MP Nazmi Gür. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Gür.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0085par0429	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'm celebrating, you've made a good sale today, and things seem to be going well. The highways and bridges were handed over to Coach and the Pleiades Group with a privatisation. It's a sale of 5 billion 750 million dollars for 25 years. I suppose with these privatisations, the government will be spending the value of the public, the people, again on capitalism, again on investors, so I see, I congratulated you, Mr. Secretary. Dear friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group over Article 4 of the 2013 Central Management Budget Bill. I salute you all with love and respect. In my speech in this article, I'm going to try to tell you a little bit about arming, militarism, and the position of arms in the budget, and what it means for our country. Dear friends, the world's arms race continues. In particular, for the past ten years, Turkey has been entering this crazy arms race, both under the name of modernisation and under the name of the local industry, the establishment of arms industry, and perhaps in accordance with the threat perceptions in its territory. Of course, when they're arming, they're reducing the country's education, health, social rights, workers, workers, to war budgets. So as we talk about these budgets, we've always said that as the Peace and Democracy Party, these budgets are war budgets, these budgets are weapons budgets. Dear friends, especially since the cold war, the cold war has ended, the countries will no longer be armed against each other. On the contrary, especially in the United States, China, Russia, Japan, Saudi Arabia, Israel, and many countries, some European Union countries, have suffered this arms race wildly. Unfortunately, Turkey, especially the Powerful Army, has taken the lead in this race under the strong Turkish slogan. The strongness of a country, of course, is not proportional to the strongness of that country's army; it is a false parameter, because it is true that one of the most important parameters that can make a country strong is how democratic it is, how fair it is in its income distribution, how it really is, how it does not destroy poverty against poverty. It seems that our country, especially with its swift participation in the arms race, is giving money to the military, to the military, to the public's education, to the health. If we give him a few numbers, I think that'll make more sense. Dear friends, the total share of the National Ministry of Defence, the National Intelligence Service -- if we perceive it as a national organisation -- is a little over 45 billion shares of the Public Order and Security Undersecretary, the National Security Council, the Ministry of Interior, the Security General Command, the Security General Directorate, the Coast Guard Command and the Defense Industry Undersecretary. Of course, this budget is divided into more than 45 billion euros -- domestic security, foreign security, and, as a whole -- institutions that produce security jobs or care for security, which is 11 percent of the budget. So, therefore, with this militant approach, with this militant approach, we are truly amazed that most of the country's budget is divided into security institutions. Of course, we're not even counting the covert funding under the Prime Minister's direct command, we haven't. Dear friends, according to the Stockholm Institute for International Peace Studies, Turkey is one of the 15 most gun-buying countries in the world in 2012. This painting is neither a success nor a precaution to us. If you want, you can build all the world's missile batteries or NATO forces into Turkey; without democratisation, without democracy, without respect for human rights, without respect for the rule of law, there is no way Turkey can be a strong country. Dear friends, our recommendation to the government is to protect the welfare of society, the rights of the oppressed worker, their identity, and the rights of all vulnerable groups, which have been replaced according to the existing Constitution, and a budget for them. This budget, however, is also about keeping a certain group, a certain group, to a certain class, to protect a certain group. Here's the last privatisation I just mentioned is the most concrete example of that. Dear friends, in the present situation, those who have been wronged are unfortunately served under the name gas and baton. The torture is almost on the streets. When you look at human rights organizations' reports, you can see that torture was almost carried to the street, especially in our area against the BDP. Of course, it's not enough, dear friends, that tens of thousands of our citizens are locked up in prisons for attending events, and over 10,000 of our friends are waiting for their fate in prisons. Unfortunately, some of the public budget is divided into prisons, gas bombs, rubber bullets. Unemployment and economic difficulties are increasing, especially for the working class. That's the problem with the workforce and the workers, the oppressed, the trade unions, the rights to organize. Mr. Prime Minister is quoting Sheikh Edebali. A congressman said the other day that that was the wrong quote. He says, "Mr. Prime Minister and all AKP spokesman: keep the people alive so the state can live." They repeat it everywhere, as soon as possible, they say it everywhere. It's one of the most said words we've ever heard in this budget. Dear friends, in order to keep a man alive, you have to make a budget for a human being, first, for military institutions, for war, not for a weapon. Since 2002, thousands of our citizens, including hundreds of children, have either gone mad with police bullets or for economic reasons, ending their lives and the lives of their family. There are suicides or suicides in the barracks. Just two days ago, a soldier died in Van. The Kurds are subjected to daily torture in every aspect of life, unable to use their native language in public, and when they are opposed, they are subjected to violence, and they receive their share of the gas, the baton, the gun, the bullet. Dear friends, in Turkey, the life of an ally is more important than the life of a man. That's the painting that exists. You will forbid the Alekis to worship, you will forbid them to pray only in mosques, you will stop democratic secularism, you will say that Turkey is a secular country. In short, no matter how you look at it, it's not the budget of the oppressed, but of the crushing classes and the supporters. Dear friends, let me finally say this. Especially a year and a half after the Van earthquake, ten days after the Roboski massacre, the government must think of this budget once again as we mention our lives, 34 brothers, and our children. In fact, the budget should be rethinked, especially for arming. And we're going to talk about this gun budget, this war budget, all over the place. Dear friends, as I stop speaking, I wish that this budget, the next 2014 budget, would be a period of peace, brotherhood, and international stability, especially in the Middle East. I give you all my regards and love.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0086par0449	Thank you, Mr. Gür. On behalf of him, Van MP Mustafa Bilici. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Knower.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0087par0453	Mr. President, I have taken a personal pledge on Article 4 of the 2013 Central Budget Law. I hereby salute your high council. Before we begin, I'd like to thank everyone who's worked on the 2013 budget, which is based on our country's resources, needs, and goals. The 2013 budget is a budget that brings our country closer to its vision of 2023. That's why I'm praying that the budget we're discussing brings blessings to our country, to our nation. In the time of our EC PARTY governments, structural reforms were carried out in many areas in accordance with new world conditions. One of the most important reforms in economic and commercial life in particular is the restructuring of the Turkish Trade Law after 50 years. Under the restructuring of the law, the new Law 6102 and our government and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have carried out a very important mission to ensure the age of commercial life in our country. Today, basic tax laws -- particularly the Tax Tax Tax Taxes Act -- are needed to redesign. The problem with our tax system is that we all share a common desire to create an easy, practical, understandable tax system when re-organised to respond to needs, considering the opinions and suggestions of relevant vocational rooms and practitioners. They are financial advisors in our country who are legal in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and implement the tax legislation that deals closely with commercial life and in the same way concerning social security regulations. No doubt in such arrangements, the support and contribution of this professional community increases success in implementing it. Free accountant financial advisors and sworn financial advisors provide the bridge between our business and our state. The more we strengthen and activate this bridge, the greater the success. The success of this profession should not be overlooked for micro-level members and for the sake of the country at the macro level. Mr. President, a valued lawmakers; a financial counseling profession with a very long history in the West has been regulated by a unique law in our country, and one of the key tools of the developing economy in Turkey, especially after 1980, has revealed more and more need for the accounting profession. This has become much more specific, especially in terms of the development of the capital market. The Law on Free Accountant Financial Advisors in Turkey was passed by Law 3568 in June 1989, and Law number 5786 was passed in 2008 regarding some changes to Law 3568. This law has brought significant changes to the profession. I'd like to express here as a member of the profession some of the problems that I consider important to the audit and accounting professionals in our country, which are about 89,000. The event that gave birth to the VAT must be tied to the collection. There is a conflict between the Adding Value Tax Act and the IRS Act that is being lifted and forced to pay VAT for a money that is not available in terms of the occupational functioning of a free profession, perhaps which they will never collect. Compromise commissions must include a professional member. At least one member of the negotiating commission should be a member of the profession assigned by the rooms. The VAT must be reduced from 18 per cent to 8 per cent in free trade activities. A professional's collection must be facilitated. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the reason I'm telling you this from this bench today is to create awareness of this professional group. As the Justice and Development Party, our philosophy is to focus on anything in the country that needs a solution. A sincere hand to any people who look for hope from the government. And I believe our ministry will do the necessary work. As I put an end to my words, I pray that our budget brings blessings to our nation.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0088par0463	Thank you, Mr. Knower. Istanbul MP Sedef Küçük. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Little.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0089par0467	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on Article 4 of the 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill. I salute your high council. Dear MPs, Mr. Finance Minister Plan and Budget Commission in its presentation of the bill, have clearly said that savings must be increased in order for our country to achieve its long-term goals. There's no denying it, especially in a country with a very low savings rate, such as Turkey, it's becoming much more important. However, while making this determination, Mr. Secretary, another dimension of savings has been overlooked, which is the insane waste of public transportation through service. The Plan and Budget Commission reported on the days of the 2013 budget. In the first ten months of 2012, it said that the public's money for the rental of a luxury car reached $114.5m, including the rental of a state-owned car. I don't know what you think, but frankly, I think it's hard to describe the budget of a country that's spent $114.5 million -- $114.5 trillion on old money -- in the first ten months of the year as a public budget. So how much would you say the budget for a country spent $114.5 million to rent a car is set aside for the National Directorate of Women's Status? It's only $11.5 million. The money spent to rent a vehicle is exactly five times the budget for the Office of the disabled and Elder Services, 10 times the allowance for the Turkish Academy of Sciences. This is more than 30 universities' budget. Apparently, the needs of our administrators for luxury power tools are more important and more important than our universities, disabled and elderly. The public burden of renting a luxury vehicle reaches $80,000 annually. When such luxury vehicles are rented, you don't just transfer money into someone's pockets, you're divided into more meaningful places where you can spend it. I mean, our top bureaucrats are ignoring someone's rights when they're getting into luxury office vehicles, and to let that happen is to be a part of it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you know, every year, there's a generalization of public austerity measures, there's a speech, there's a statement, there's a precaution, but it goes on every year. If I'm not mistaken, this is the fourth budget offered by Mr. Finance Minister. During each budget period, this issue has been brought up by the opposition, but we see that nothing has changed. This year again, warnings were issued to ease the public's reaction, and again, measures were mentioned. I hope this year will be different, and I hope that sincere measures will be taken to eliminate this wastefulness. This extravagance is not the only problem of Turkey's economy, it is not the most important problem, but it is crucial for it to demonstrate its heritage approach. Mr. President, it's impossible to maintain stability in an economy that doesn't produce enough, doesn't create jobs, can't guarantee income justice, can't prevent off-the-books. Especially considering the risk that the foreign policy, ruled by the wrong choices, will create on economic stability, we can predict that next year won't go very well, and the signs are starting to come out. Unrequited checks increased by 56 per cent in 2012. The household's credit card debt to the banks has increased by 74 times. You note that such an economic structure is inevitable to cause social problems, asking that the budget be good for our country and bring prosperity and happiness to our people in 2013.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0090par0473	Thank you, Mr. Little. Congressmans, we're moving on to the QA section. Mr. Belen, please.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0091par0476	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I didn't get the answer to the question I asked in the first round, so I'm going to continue. According to reports of the operation of the National Property Directorate, the sale of about 10,000 non-moving goods per year is expected, and the sale of some 400,0002/B in a year, including the Law on 2/B, will now be expected to be carried out, and in the continuation of this figure, the sale of much-over farmland. How are you going to get the staff to do a job where you don't give them any rights, you make arrangements, you break morale and motivation? Is it in your sense of justice to have these things done under these circumstances? Do you plan to submit an expert examination of the non-specialist national real estate agency as well as to the IRS staff, and to address the injustice of their rights? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0092par0481	Thank you, Mr. Belen. Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0093par0483	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister: after the sale of Turkey's TELECOM with the scope of privatisation, the communication started with fiber optic cables. The fiber-optic cables, the copper-resistant underground cables, they're useless. Is it going to be the government or the company that's being sold, that's probably worth about a billion of these cables? Secondly, the sale of the Tokat Turhal Sugar Factory has been halted by the court as part of privatisation. Will the sale be brought up again? I'd like to know if there's a public institution and organization under privatisation that isn't privatized. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0094par0488	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0095par0490	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how much do you intend to increase the state-of-the-art months in 2013, which are being paid according to current legislation? Do you think these monthlys are enough? A second question is that in Turkey, the amount of hot money for foreigners reached $143 billion in November, and now 150 billion. With this money, how much money do foreigners make through Turkey? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0096par0494	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0097par0496	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how much has been spent on our country's budget due to Syrian refugees who came to our country during 2012? From what sources were these expenses paid? Another question is that the pensions taken by specialists who have retired from 30 years of age, from the fourth part of 1. The pensions are half the size of other public employees with similar training years and working periods. I asked you last year, are you planning on making an arrangement? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0098par0500	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Bridgel.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0099par0502	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, our province of Tekirdağ is in the 9th place in paying taxes. However, I'm reading from the answer I've received from the Minister of Development: are you going to correct this injustice and injustice in your budget? Or were you in Tekirdağ last month, Mr. Secretary -- since you opened new tax offices -- is your sole purpose not to serve, but to collect more taxes than Tekirdağ?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0098par0504	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. Your Grace.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0100par0506	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, the treasury and finance agencies had already broken up with someone. So you separated the IRS from the IRS. As a result of this practice, has there been any increase in the rates of rights and collection and tax revenues? My second question: Although the duties and responsibilities of the treasurers in the Ministry of Finance are far greater than most officers, they are paid 200 to $600 less than other ministry staff in their rights. Are you planning on correcting the tellers' rights? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0101par0510	Thank you, Your Grace. Dear Light.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0102par0512	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do you think there's an increase in additional tuition fees to compensate teachers and university professors for lower salaries? What are the additional tuition rates for 2013? The second, is it considered a monthly arrangement for the monthly payment of months paid and paid every three months according to the laws of Law No. 2022, known simply as the old and needy month? Do you think it's reasonable for the public to meet the demand on this matter? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0103par0516	Thank you, Mr. Light. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0104par0518	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, of course, there are a lot of questions about these rights of essence. In particular, a number of issues are being brought up concerning the finance ministry employees. Let me make this clear, no officer's salary has been reduced. So 666 -- if I don't remember correctly, I'm guessing that was the number -- was the number of people in the Code of Justice and we agreed to an equal title...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0105par0520	That's the truth, actually.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0104par0521	In a sense, we paid equal wages for equal work. The complaints at the Finance Ministry are mainly due to this: Once tax inspectors were made tax inspectors within the tax audit board, they really increased their rights, their indicators increased, their salaries increased, but no one who compares themselves with them has dropped a penny; there has not been a drop in the rights of equity, pension. Now, everyone has been raised to this level by tax inspectors. Why don't we go out? The tax inspectors have been evaluated in a different frame, doing a different kind of work. They were made tax inspectors under the Tax Control Board, and since we've made no distinction between tax inspectors, of course their salaries have increased, their rights have increased, but other friends' salaries have no reduction in their rights. Turkish TELECOM, of course, has fiber optic cables... which, of course, you have to look at the contract, but of course, when you're making an investment, of course, he has an expense, but I'm not available for details of the contract right now, which is the Turkish contract for sale of TELEKOM, or rather, of course, the transfer agreement, you have to look at it. So, I'll let the guys take a look, see if I can fill you in. A new issue about the Slap Candy Factory is not on the agenda. So, of course, the privatisation of sugar factories is currently under way. We had a few tenders, they haven't been approved yet. He thinks the process will continue somehow. Again, there's a question about hot money. Dear friends, foreign sources from abroad, both in shares and in bonds, bonds, such as domestic markets, can also profit, or damage from time to time. For example, if Turkey brought money to Turkey in 2010 and turned the dollar into Turkish lira, after that -- you know, as it entered 2011, the currency went up and the interest went up -- then it could also be harmful, but it could also profit in the next term. So it's hard to calculate this, when it entered, when it came out -- of course every day, because of the flow of funds, because of the output of funds -- to evaluate it. So far, the money we've transferred from the budget for Syrian refugees has remained in my mind about $425 million. Have the guys check it out if there's anything more. This 425 million lira, of course, is transferred from the reserve fund to the AFAD. Yeah, they brought some friends. It's up to 482 million liras. The last number I had in mind was 425, up to 482 million liras. We're sending this money through AFAD, of course. Again, of course, our physicians have a salary, a salary, and the money they get from the return capital. The money they receive from return capital is not taxed, nor does it count as retirement. Therefore, of course, they receive relatively low pensions in their pensions. There are some demands for that, but we don't have any actual work ahead of us yet. In Tekirdağ... Dear friends, the taxes collected in many of our provinces are far greater than the expenditures made there because for national security in this country, for example, we can't only consider the money spent for the Ministry of National Defense in the province. Your country has many... We can't just look at the money spent on justice, etcetera. Of course, there's income in the county, there's investments in the county, but we can't just narrow it down to the county. For example, let's say the industry in Chorus, where the investment is clustered, clustered in Adapazari, clustered in Gaziantep, clustered in Çorum, in Konya, in Kayseri. But we have such provinces that industry -- of course its activity -- is very limited, and tax revenues from there are limited. Now, dear friends...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0531	Mr. Secretary, our time is up.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0107par0532	Mr. Secretary, but not in the 75th place! Does a county that pays taxes in the 9th place get a share in the 75th place?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0533	Thank you. Now, there are seven motions on matter, and I'm going to read them. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 361-Setment Numbered Bill, which is currently in session, is 4th. We provide and propose that the following row be added to the table marked "E." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ayan Ayadın Haluk Ahmet Silver Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Haydar Akar Kazım Kurt Izzet Cetin Rahmi Mosa Pine of Love The repairs and renovation costs of the houses of the capital are 12.01.31, located in the Finance Ministry's Budget. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. It is paid by saving funds from the six arrangements to be transferred to the Ministry of Religious Affairs. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 361-Setment Numbered Bill, which is currently in session, is 4th. We provide and propose that the following row be added to the table marked "E" (E). Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ayan Ayadın Haluk Ahmet Silver Kazim Kurt Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Haydar Akar İzzet Cetin Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam "80. 12:01.31 in the Finance Ministry Budget. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-09. From 1 allowance, village chiefs and town-and-town mayors receive monthly allowances for a net minimum wage. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 361-Setment Numbered Bill, which is currently in session, is 4th. Article 1 (g) shows the amount of the first payment of "K ruler" according to its (g) column "in addition courses, conferences, and overwork fees. We propose and propose that the first sentence of the number (1) bell be changed in the following way by the section "The Overwork fee" of the episode "The Monthly Victim Overwork fee" (B). Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ayan Ayadın Haluk Ahmet Silver Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Haydar Akar Kazım Kurt İzzet Cetin Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam "1. In private institutions (except for economic enterprises), the nature of its duties is paid by the city council order, which is staffed by the police and fire services (except staff who run the services of the staff) and the staff who are staffed by a staff and security staff, as well as the exception of their staff, due to their working hours and hours specified by Law 657." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 361-Setment Numbered Bill, which is currently in session, is 4th. We provide and propose that the following row be added to the table (E) marked. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ayan Ayadın Haluk Ahmet Silver Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Haydar Akar Kazım Kurt Izzet Cetin Bkent Kuşoğlu Rahmi Küreli of Love As part of the implementation of Article 7 of the "Special Consumption Tax Act No. 6/6/2002" entitled "Other Exceptions," the farmers use in agricultural production and special consumption tax and added value tax in the delivery of goods listed on the 4760 list (1). 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. It's covered by the grant in the six-track. The procedure and the basis for implementation are jointly determined by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "This limit is not required in the appointment of teachers in the Ministry of National Education staffs at the end of section II (b) of the current 361-Setment 2013 Central Management Budget Legislature (I) table." We offer and offer to add his notice. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ayan Ayadın Haluk Ahmet Silver Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Haydar Akar Kazım Kurt İzzet Cetin Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 361 Rows Numbered 2013 Central Management Budget Bill 4th. The article (g) states: "The additional course shows the sums of the fees of the lecture, conference and overwork and other payment of the fee. We propose and propose that the "Max Overwork fee" (b) joke of the Overwork Pay" section be changed in the following way as follows. İzzet Çetin Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Agha Ayyadın Kazim Kurt Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Rahmi Love's Style Haluk Ahmet Silver Haydar Akar Bulent Kuşoğlu 1. The quality of its duties is paid by the municipal council order, which has been established by the municipality's protection and security personnel on staff (except the staff who operate in the police and fire services (except the staff who conduct the services of the staff) and by the municipality's executives on staff (except the private budget of economic enterprises), as part of their work hours and hours specified by law number 657. However, according to the latest official census of overtime payable to them, the municipality population is: - 195 Turkish liras for what's up to 10,000. - For those of you from 10,001 to 50,000, 209 Turkish liras, - For those of you from 50,001 to 100,000, 232 Turkish liras, - For those of you from 100,001 to 250,000, 261 Turkish liras, - From 250,001 to 1,000,000 Turkish liras, - For those more than 1,000,001, 361 Turkish liras, - The 361 Turkish Lira for those within the municipal borders of other major cities outside Ankara, İstanbul and İzmir Metropolitan municipalities, - Ankara, İstanbul and İzmir Metropolitan Municipalitys, 480 Turkish liras, It won't pass. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the first joke in Article 4 of the 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill; - (c) Adding the following items to the ruler (E) "80. As part of the implementation of Article 7 of the Special Consumption Tax Act No. 6/6/2002, entitled "Other Exceptions," the farmers used in agricultural production and special consumption tax and added value in the delivery of goods listed on the list 4760 (I). 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. It's covered by the grant in the six-track. The procedure and the basis for implementation are jointly determined by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism." "81. Taxes for those working under minimum wage are 12.01.31 of the Finance Ministry budget, under the provisions of income tax law No. 193. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. It's covered by the grant in the six-track." "82. Village and neighborhood chiefs receive monthly allowances for minimum wage. The required allowance is 12.01.31 of the Finance Ministry's budget. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. It's covered by a set of 1st." According to (f) bendi (I) table "II. At the end of the section "The Number of Borders of Public Appointment" (b) for Public Servants, "This border is not called for incumbents on teachers' staffs in the Ministry of National Education." Adding his notice, (g) Based on the C-section, "II. The article "The Monthly Victim Overwork fee" (B) of the Overwork fee section is to change the first sentence of the number (1) bell in the following way. "1. In private institutions (except for economic enterprises), the nature of its duties is paid by the city council order, which is staffed by the police and fire services (except staff who run the services of the staff) and the staff who are staffed by a staff and security staff, as well as the exception of their staff, due to their working hours and hours specified by Law 657." We supply and offer. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Adnan Şişek Güçük Mr. Commission, does this agree with my latest motion?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0108par0621	But let's tell people what this motion is, Mr. President -- we don't have the right to talk.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0622	Perhaps... if you wait, Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0109par0623	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0108par0624	Mr. Commission, tell me what you don't agree to.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0625	Mr. Aslanoglu, excuse me for a moment.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0108par0626	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0627	At first, a commission probably listened to what he didn't agree to, and everyone listened. You don't accept. Government?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0110par0630	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0631	Now, lawmakers, the amendment proposals of Article 162, which regulates the Constitution's budget talks, are also read and voted on without discussion. We read the grounds of the motion according to the ordinance. That's why there's no discussion over this motion. The gas used by our farmer is intended not to be taken from the OTV or VAT. The minimum wage is intended to be tax-free. A minimum wage is intended for our mayors. The appointment of teachers to the Ministry of National Education staff has been a problem for a long time, and the problem continues to grow. Hundreds of thousands of teachers are waiting to appoint, and around 150,000 teachers are needed. The need for teachers is intended to be met without limit. It is intended to increase the daily costs by 50%, to be redesigned by the Constitution's decree banning labour, and to increase the monthly higher work fees by 25%, given the minimum time wage being implemented as of July 2011. According to their duties, 24 hours a day is required to remove the victim's victim's victim's victim's victim's victim's victim's victims according to the Budget Law K Court. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 361 Rows Numbered 2013 Central Management Budget Bill 4th. The article (g) states: "The additional course shows the sums of the fees of the lecture, conference and overwork and other payment of the fee. We propose and propose that the "Max Overwork fee" (b) joke of the Overwork Pay" section be changed in the following way as follows. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends 1. The quality of its duties is paid by the municipal council order, which has been established by the municipality's protection and security personnel on staff (except the staff who operate in the police and fire services (except the staff who conduct the services of the staff) and by the municipality's executives on staff (except the private budget of economic enterprises), as part of their work hours and hours specified by law number 657. However, according to the latest official census, the overtime fee to pay them is the municipality's population; - 195 Turkish liras for what's up to 10,000. - For those of you from 10,001 to 50,000, 209 Turkish liras, - For those of you from 50,001 to 100,000, 232 Turkish liras, - For those of you from 100,001 to 250,000, 261 Turkish liras, - From 250,001 to 1,000,000 Turkish liras, - For those more than 1,000,001, 361 Turkish liras, - The 361 Turkish Lira for those within the municipal borders of other major cities outside Ankara, İstanbul and İzmir Metropolitan municipalities, - Ankara, İstanbul and İzmir Metropolitan Municipalitys, 480 Turkish liras, It won't pass. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0111par0656	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0657	Government?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0112par0658	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0113par0659	Mr. Commission, we want 195 liras, 195 liras! Mr. Commission, 195 lira! We don't want much money!
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0660	Motive. More overtime is expected to be paid to security and security personnel who are actually working as a staff. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0114par0664	Commission! See you later, Commissioner!
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0665	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to the 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill (I) section II (b) of the table, which is currently in session 361 rows, "This border is not sought in the appointment of teachers in the Ministry of National Education staff." We offer and offer to add his notice. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0115par0670	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0671	Government?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0116par0672	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0117par0673	Mr. Commission, this is the unassigned teachers, you said no to that too!
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0674	Motive. It was intended to relieve the victims of non-assigned teachers and improve the quality of educational services. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0118par0678	Way to go, Mr. Ahmet!
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0679	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 4th Amendment of the current 361 row. We provide and propose that the following row be added to the table (E) marked. Moses Pine (Izmir) and his friends The special consumption tax and added value tax in the delivery of goods listed on number 4760, as part of the application of the 7th article entitled "Obsession Taxes," dated 6/6/2002 and 4760, was used by farmers in agricultural production. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. It's covered by the grant in the six-track. The procedure and the basis for implementation are jointly determined by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0119par0685	Mr. Ahmet, the villagers are these peasants.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0120par0686	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0687	Government?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0121par0688	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0689	Motive. Reason: The farmer's engine, which they use in agricultural production, is envisioned to be given an exception to EV and VAT, and to be compensated for the loss of income from the reserve fund.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0122par0691	Mr. Ahmet, I'll report you to the peasant.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0692	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the first joke (g) of Article 4 of the 361 Numbered Legislature, which has been discussed, "The K ruler (III) shows the amount of the payment of additional courses, conferences, and other fees. We propose and propose that the first sentence of the number (1) bell be changed in the following way by the section "The Overwork fee" of the episode "The Monthly Victim Overwork fee" (B). Bulent Kuşoglu (Ankara) and his friends "1. The quality of its duties is paid by the municipal council decision, which has been established by the municipal protection and security personnel, which are staffed on staff (except the staff who operate in the police and fire services (except the staff who conduct the services) and are on a staff basis, as well as the quality of their duties in the Law No. 657. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0123par0699	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0700	Government?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0124par0701	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0702	Motive. Reason: Due to the fact that overwork for municipal protection and security personnel is not included in the central management budget law in 2013, which is envisioned per year in the budget law for municipal protection and security personnel, the extra labour fee for the employees is to be added to the budget law again. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0125par0705	Madam Secretary, you give every year, not this year. You gave it to these people every year.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0706	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the addition of the following row to Article 4 (E) of the 361 Numbered Legislature. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends 80. 12:01.31 in the Finance Ministry Budget. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-09. From 1 allowance, the village chiefs and the town's and the town's mayors receive monthly allowances for a net minimum wage. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0126par0712	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0127par0713	We don't agree. At least say it.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0714	Government?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0128par0715	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0129par0716	Mr. Ahmet, if I didn't write to all the chiefs in Kayseri, I'd be offended! I called it! I called it! If I didn't write to the chiefs in Batman, I'd be offended, Mr. Secretary. They didn't agree. I'll say it.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0717	Motive... The monthly wages of the village chiefs and the town and the village chiefs are expected to be increased in order to compensate for their hard work, as well as to cover the benefits of subsidies in the Finance Ministry Budget. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0130par0721	Mr. Ahmet, there's one... there's one...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0722	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 361-Setment Numbered Bill, which is currently in session, is 4th. We provide and propose that the following row be added to the table (E) marked. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya (Bartin) and his friends The repairs and renovation costs of the houses of the capital are 12.01.31, located in the Finance Ministry's Budget. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. It is paid by saving funds from the six arrangements to be transferred to the Ministry of Religious Affairs.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0131par0727	At least accept it... for God's sake. I call it God.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0728	Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0132par0729	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0730	Government?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0133par0731	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0732	Motive... The budget for the Ministry of Finance budget, which ensures that repairs costs can be covered from the Ministry of Religious Affairs budget, is envisioned for transfers from the backup budget. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0134par0736	Dear sir, your honor... we're more than that. Mr. President, there are more of us.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0737	Mr. Aslanoglu, we've counted here before, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0134par0738	Mr. President, let's know who raised their hand.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0739	Now, I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0134par0740	Mr. President, vote again. There's a few there.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0106par0741	Members of our Clerks, please count. It's the same number, it's already been voted.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0135par0743	Call an open vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0136par0744	They pray to God and do nothing else.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0137par0745	And this side, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0138par0746	All those in favor... all those in favor... excuse me...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0136par0747	Those who refused agreed, raised their hand, Mr. President, raised their hand.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0138par0748	Mr. Aslanoglu, I've already voted.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0136par0749	Mr. President, they have raised their hand.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0138par0750	Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0136par0751	Mr. President, those who agreed raised their hand.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0139par0752	Now they raised their hand as a yes, and raised it as a yes.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0140par0753	They voted for the fourth article.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0141par0754	I voted the item, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0139par0755	They've agreed, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0142par0756	Yes, they did, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0143par0757	Mr. President, this isn't an elementary school class, this isn't really happening.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0144par0758	I voted on the 4th Amendment.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0142par0759	Mr. President, they took it away.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0145par0760	They actually said yes, they agreed.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0144par0761	Mr. Aslanoglu, I don't understand. Now, I've put the 4th article to the vote. I counted the same people because you had previously objected. There were people sitting here, they just got here.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0145par0763	He disagrees.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0146par0764	No, sir, Mr. President, you have voted on the motion.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0145par0765	Yes, or no, he does not agree.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0147par0766	I had the motion voted, Mr. Aslanoglu, you're very welcome.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0146par0767	You voted again... for those who didn't agree.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0147par0768	Those who do not accept the 4th article... yes, those who do not accept the 4th article... yes, the 4th article is accepted.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0148par0769	There you go!
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0147par0770	So, I've voted on the 4th article, and you can be sure that when I vote on the motion, we count it the same way.
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0149par0771	Mr. President, may I offer you something, sir?
tbmm-2012-12-17sit02spe0147par0772	It's 20 o'clock. I'm taking a break until 00.
