tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 107th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Mr. Dilek Yüksel, a member of the Tokat MP who asked for the appointment of International Family Day. Here you are, Mr. Ascendant.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise on behalf of myself due to International Family Day and Family Week. I salute you all. The family is the oldest and most radical social unit in human history. Historical and cultural values are primarily kept alive and taught in the family. The family shapes the individuals who live in it. Family is the source of human respect, tolerance, and compassion. Family is the source of your confidence, honesty, hard work, patriotism. In the same way, the strong family structure is the source of democracy and development. That's why we call it Turkey, a strong individual, a strong family, a strong society, a strong and leader country. Compared to the whole world, the concept of the family has a different value and value for our country and our nation. From the past to the present, our nation has attributed a great deal to this institution. As a government, we create family-based social policies, institutional structures; we view any investment in human beings as a direct investment in the family. Social benefits to women, children, disabled, elderly, martyred relatives and veterans are to make the family stronger because family, economic structure, is the mirror of society through its social and cultural vision. Therefore, within social policy, the family is the roof of society. Our goal is to make Turkey a model country in the area of family and social policy in the near future. Family is the future and destiny of a nation. As a government, we're implementing our future family structure, even stronger social policies. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we've come up with strategic plans for service to the family. In this framework, we gradually bring our projects to life, starting with our local governments, pilot areas; the Family Education Programme, pre-wedding education, Family and Social Support Programme are some of them. We have launched pilot applications for the Family Education Programme, where we have prepared educational materials. With this app, we aim to increase the family's ability to solve problems. The essence and foundation of society is family. As many nations advanced in civilization are made up of well-trained individuals in the family furnace because nations are made up of many families. We should also remember that the way to be a strong family is through social solidarity as societies establish the foundation of nations as well as healthy and powerful families. Today, as the EC PARTY government, we stand by our needy, poor, and destitute people with the nine billion dollar budget of our Ministry of Family and Social Policy, so we're no one. Our people are happier today. Our families, our disabled, our women, our children, our elderly, our fallen relatives and veterans are happier. With this responsibility, we do what it takes to be a social state without any inconvenience. Therefore, we will continue to support our families' economic, social, cultural, and moral development directly, and continue to engage in educational activities. We know that our Prime Minister has made a special emphasis on the woman and the family at every turn, showing a different care. We embrace all our families with the same feeling and precision, east and west, north and south. And that's where I curse once again the terrorist organization that shoots down the family furnaces, tears their parents into tears, leaving the children orphaned and orphaned. We're with our martyr families, our veterans, our elders. We're on the side of our women who have passed away, our victims of terrorism, our citizens. We are 75 million families with our differences, our multifaceted culture, our rich human diversity, our beliefs and our social values. With such feelings and thoughts, on behalf of my AK PARTY group and myself, we celebrate our nation's International Family Day and Family Week, wish all our families a peaceful and happy tomorrow, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba, who wants to talk about the problems of apricot and apricot producers. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0004par0031	Mr. President, I salute you and your followers as MPs of Malatya, the apricot capital of the world. Precious lawmakers, Istanbul is taking migration, growing; Ankara is taking migration, growing; New York, Berlin, Paris, Madrid, Tehran, Moscow is taking migration; Malatya is also taking migration, but Malatya is shrinking. This contrast is basically selling and not selling. In Malatya, AKP sells Teleli, Sumeri, Sugar to private, and the Globecik, as you all know, to the United States, but it can't sell the apricot for what it deserves, it destroys the manufacturer, it reduces Malatya, because Malatya, thanks to the sellers, gives more than it buys migration. The apricot, which is a bread gate to hundreds of thousands of people, is also an export product that has made millions of dollars, but its apricots have come to a point that has been dying for years. Dear friends, the apricot producers also regret it when the apricots are too long, and when the apricots never hold, they regret it when it burns because when the apricot holds, the price can't be marketed, the price crawls on the floor because the state doesn't support the production and marketing of the apricots. The state that supports the tea, supports the nut, does not support the apricot, but withholds its support from the apricot. It is not to support government tea and nuts and apricots and to support them properly; it is not to support giving a few pennies under the name of support. Now, I'm asking you, what would the manufacturer do with half the money he gets? Do you want him to borrow the other half of the money, give it to the medicine he's taking, give it to the fertilizer, or let the kid read it, or support himself? Dear friends, the government must take immediate precautions before the apricot trees, each of which is a gold factory, are cut off one by one. Thousands of manufacturers were executed because electricity, water, fertilizer, couldn't pay off their drug debt. Sixty-seven, seventy-year-old farmers were condemned to the gates of the court, the halls of execution. Dear lawmakers, the biggest danger to their apricots is frosting and hailing after the AKP. Even hourly information against the danger of frosting and hailing is crucial, but thanks to the AKP, it has shut down the Meteorological Regional Manager in Malatya. No Malatian could understand why you shut it down, and there's no logical explanation. Apricot manufacturers were left helpless over the frosting incident. There's also a robbery order under the name TARSIM. TARSIM exploits poor Malatian apricot producers. The government must make TARSEM healthy immediately. Dear MPs, even though we are the world's only major producers, countries like Pakistan, Iran are our rivals in the world. The government must take important and serious measures regarding production, marketing and exports, or we will lose that property. The sale of the apricot, whose production is fraught with problems, is also full of problems. Dear friends, the apricot must be given to state institutions to increase the sale of the apricot. For example, schools, which have been on the agenda a lot lately, should be given intellectual enhancement apricots instead of tainted milk. Wouldn't school milk be better than poison cubes? The State Department of Defense can take apricots and distribute them to our troops. I'm sure by eating apricots our soldiers can do their duty much better. Another measure, dear friends, is to give the manufacturer a zero interest loan, as we explained before the election. At the time of the production of apricots to the manufacturer -- for example, at the beginning of March -- the state could provide zero interest loans to prevent the farmer from having to remove the apricot from handing the drug, fertilizer, labor by default, and prevent prices from dropping at the beginning of the term. Which prevents apricot prices from dropping. Dear friends, I end my promises by giving you two examples: 1 litre of diesel, 1.37 lira in 2002, 2.5 lira in apricots, 2 litres of diesel with 1 kilogram of apricots; 1 litre of diesel 3.78 in 2012, 1 kilogram of apricots can now be bought at $4. So Malatya is half poor. That's part of the problem. What about the benefits of the apricot? Dear friends, I advise you all that it is good for the brain, for the mind, for the intelligence, for the liver, for the heart. I would like to make a call to both you and our viewers: Today, I recommend that everyone take a kilo of apricots home to understand the benefits of their record. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0005par0045	Thank you, Mr. Agha. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, a member of the Isparta MP who wants to talk about Roma citizens' problems and solution proposals. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0006par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. I'm going to talk about our Roma brothers, whose colorful cultures have given up on the world's gains, their cheerful behavior, and their superior efforts to avoid conflicting with the values of their community. We've been living with them for a thousand years. This community, which owns its country, its nation, embraces its national culture, sees today, through sociocultural and economic advances and fast-moving technology, a serious gap is forming between them and others in our country, and demands to use their civil rights, not only to meet decisions, but to be a member of the decision-making mechanism. To that end, they visited our group a while ago and delivered their problems. The National Movement Party, which believes that this country has no land to be abandoned or a man to give up, has been delighted to welcome and embrace these brothers and sisters, who love their country, their country, their nation, and their country's integrity, and the unrelenting defenders of the national union, in our group, and to listen to them. As everyone will agree, the biggest problem is the prejudice of those brothers and sisters we have lived with for a thousand years, and they don't deserve it at all. As in every society, of course, there are those among Roma who have gone beyond legal and social acceptance. However, most of them are people who strive to provide child support and to serve society by producing in their own fields. In view of bad examples, it is unhuman to evaluate them altogether, and to love the Creator because of the Creator. It is contrary to his faith. Whoever casts them out, humiliates them, exploits them, cannot be a sincere member of this holy nation and of our high religion. As the National Party of Action, we embrace these dear brothers and condemn all prejudices and bad words against them and put them under our feet. One big problem is the housing problem, valuable lawmakers. Today, our Roma brothers, who chose to live together with their own acceptance to keep their culture alive and not disturb others, demand to live in more modern, healthier places. We certainly support the government's idea of making them landlords, but especially in urban centers, we don't approve of attempts to bring bread from the very high Roman neighborhoods to their own supporters, to attract them to one another. These brothers don't need big words, empty words, meaningless slogans. Whatever you put in the law, it's not a cure if it's not enforced. In this regard, as the National Movement Party, we would like to discuss and draw conclusions from concrete projects that have been held by hand, instead of saying a few words like parrots and exploiting them. The Turkish nation is the name of a large family with the Turkish nation, the Yörük, the Turkish people, the Turkish men, the Laz, the Kurdish people, the Circeştai, the Roman family. The concept of the Turkish nation in our constitution includes everyone and is equal to the Roma, unfortunately, because of the equal rights our state knows, lack of education, material impotence, and some prejudices. In that case, the problems of education must be overcome immediately, and a study must be initiated so that an uneducated child will not be left behind by raising awareness of his parents. All spellings and practices that would suggest that they are being discriminated against must be reviewed. Arrangements must be made to address the limitations of Roma who cannot find a place in public duties and politics. These brothers and sisters should be informed of their rights of citizenship, and for that, they should be opened to their consulting offices in their busy areas. For women to participate in social life, they must organise courses so that their young can have a profession outside the traditional working arm. The municipalities must be allowed to bring more services to the Roma neighborhoods. If it is not possible for the nomadic Roma to be placed at their request, efforts must be made to overcome the problems they face during their migration. On the other hand, social groups and media in particular should be provided with accurate information about our citizens. However -- valued lawmakers -- this part is very important -- no matter what is done, through the associations of our Roma brothers, their views should be taken into common, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0007par0062	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0008par0066	We had a brief request.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0007par0067	I forgot. I mean, it's not your right, it's mine if I feel like it. I forgot, I'll give it to you in a minute. It's become the right thing to do, it's amazing! Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The visit of our country by Vice President Ma Qingsheng and his delegation from the Committee for Ethnic and Religious Affairs of the People's People's Republic of China was approved by the Council of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Council on May 2, 2012 and Resolution 23. The visit of the delegation to our country is the 7th Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It is subject to the information provided by the General Assembly. It has been presented to your knowledge. Now, I'm going to promise the first 10 people according to the 60th article. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0009par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. The government's decision, which divided the May 19th of Ataturk, Memorial, Youth and Sports Day, is wrong. Like the homeland, the love of Ataturk is one, not one. The national festivals are the festivals of the people, not of the government. National holidays are the festivals that combine meanings, consciences, and national faith, thus providing unity of the nation and state. The more wrong the nation of power is to distinguish the differences, the more wrong the understanding that divides May 19th into three. With this decision, the AKP has reduced national holidays to a formality. It would be in his best interest to abandon AKP's state-impaired, nationally disabled and historically disabled position more than anything else. I invite you to stop playing with the ruling national holidays, to return to the public's agenda, to tremble and come to your senses.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0010par0085	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0011par0087	Thank you, Mayor. One of the prayers of the theatre and the voice, we lost the artist and director Erol Brodeseci, who worked in 70 different plays. May God have mercy on the deceased, and my condolences to his relatives. Sports Toto 2. Şanlıurfaspor, who was in the White Group, announced his title a week before the end of the league. Forty-three years later, finally Bank Asia 1. The league celebrates the rising Sanlıurfaspor, and I wish you all the best for next year's season. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0012par0091	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0013par0093	Mr. President, thank you. This week, Friday, Saturday, Sundays, the Pet and Milk Industries Fair is held in Burdur Province. Besides, on Friday, there's a milk-drinking record at Burdur Center. I invite all our MPs, our citizens, to Burdur. In addition, our Burdur would set a record for producing 800-900 tonnes of milk a day. He says we should all continue to drink milk, create intelligent brains, keep milk together, thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0014par0096	Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0015par0098	The event of students who wanted to organise a celebration program at Hacettepe University for the weekend of Kutlu's Birth was powered by left-wing student groups. It can be explained and unacceptable that people who speak of democracy and freedom at every turn can live in this geography and not even tolerate the celebration of the birth of our great Prophet, who is of the basic values of our beloved nation. What left-wing marginal groups shouldn't object to is being a human being in this country, is an exemplary situation to think about when they can't tolerate an event. In addition to freedom of thought and faith, it is also sobering and sad to point to the point where certain parts of society have come to when it comes to basic values of Turkish society. Colleges are the joys of freedom of opinion and faith. Tolerance of differences is the basic principle of science and democracy. In universities, every idea must live in peace, every idea must be able to express itself. Our nation, Turkey, will continue to provide examples of what a democratic objection will be, as it responds to domestic and external circles, who want to stir and confuse Turkey.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0016par0101	Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0017par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. On the last day of May 9, 16th, I greet all disabled citizens with respect and love. In order to meet their accumulated problems -- especially economic, democratic, social and cultural issues -- he invites our Parliament to serve in order to meet its democratic political demands, conveying my wishes for legal arrangements to meet the problems.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0016par0105	Dear Varli...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0018par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to inform the government of your intervention, and I'd like to warn you that every time the Agriculture Bank lends a lot of loans, the interest is low, the farmers have high payability, but now the Agriculture Bank has cut the loans they gave last year in half. For example, last year, a farmer who could get $100 billion in loans could only get $50 billion this year, because on the corn, on the acres, the cotton and the watermelon, the ratio was very low. Our farmers suffer a great deal in that sense. I want to warn the government in that sense: please, let them come up with a solution, one. Second, the village of Kösreli, Altözbekirli, Dağstan and Yalak in the province of Ceyhan, Adana. I also wish our farmers there well.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0019par0110	Mr. Tezcan...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0020par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Lawmakers, the farmer's condition is very bad in Aydın. I came from Aydin last week. Now the farmer has either left the plums in the field or he has started putting them on the road. It's 50 cents to add, 50 cents to the price. The medicine, the fertilizer, the water, aside from the plum manufacturer, can no longer afford it, is now paying out of his pocket. At the market, it's 4 lira, 5 lira pounds of plums, but 5,000 tons of plums are waiting in the garden. This needs to be taken care of immediately. So is the artichoke manufacturer. 40 cents worth of artichokes, they have to sell artichokes for 20 cents, they can't get customers. So is the cottonman, so is the citrus. The enlightened farmer expects the government to cure his wound. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0021par0115	Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0022par0117	Mr. President, thank you. Tonight, at 8:30, the final of the Cup will be played between our distinguished club, Bursaspor, and Fenerbahce. I wish both our clubs well. And I'd like to ask Mr. Minister the following question: The mayor of Bursa Yıldırım district has announced a project recently, Mr. Secretary. He said he would build 50,000 dwellings by destroying 30,000 dwellings that concern seven neighborhoods. Costs about $12 billion. I'd like to ask the Minister: does the mayor know about this law? If you give information about what to do with this law, you will be able to address some of the problems of our citizens in this neighborhood in Burma. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0023par0121	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0024par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, the Melen Water Project is a project developed in Istanbul, where water is heavily immigrated and the supply and demand balance is designed to compensate for its lack of water. However, the Istanbul Drinking Water Melen Project, the biggest project to be carried out by the DSI after the GAP, has reached a dead end. The first phase of the Great Melen Project began in 2001 and was envisioned to complete the project in 2004. State Water Affairs officials have previously suggested that the project will be completed in 2010, but it has not. The first phase of the system is about to be completed and will be launched in July 2012, the DSI said on April 10th. In this direction, when will the first phase be completed and why hasn't it been completed all these years? Is there a reason why the project has been delayed so much? According to claims that the current administration of State Water Affairs is not competent to run these operations, 140 per cent of the state waterworks regional managers during the AKP administration, 120 per cent of the heads of the departments, 95 per cent of the branch managers have been dismissed...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0025par0127	Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0026par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. There is serious concern in Kastamonu, with the arrival of spring. In the last week, three of our citizens have been killed because of the Crimea Congo bleeding disease. My condolences to our citizens who have lost their lives in Kastamonun Central, Azdavay district and Ihsangazi district. In addition, we currently have about 20 citizens under treatment at the hospital. Our Ministry of Health and our Ministry of Agriculture are now under serious investigation of the region, asking that the measures be taken immediately, and I offer all of you with respect.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0027par0132	There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'll have them read separately. Since the first parliamentary survey motion I will read is more than 500 words, a summary of the motion will be read, but the full text of the motion will be added to the Journal of Tutorak. (x) (10/277) The original Parliamentary Research Investigation is included in the full text of the Charter. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Turkey imports about 72% of its energy and 97% of natural gas. Because of the increase in gas consumption, underground storage must be used in resolving the winter supply-request imbalance. However, Turkey is trying to meet the supply by taking compressed gas (LNG) from the spotlight because Russia and Iran are often cut off without justification. Turkey's storage capacity is not enough. According to media reports, Energy Minister Mr. Taner Yildiz stated that a reduction in natural gas imported from Russia via the West Line has been requested but has been decided to cancel the contract due to Russia's lack of positive response to the demand for discounts. The period for the 6 billion cubic metres of agreement signed in 1986 is already full in January 2012. According to the minister's statement, he has decided to give gas purchases to the private sector. There are reports in the newspapers that Bosphorus Gaz and Aksa have also shared 40 per cent of the private companies, particularly the GAZPROM. Electricity increased by 9.57 per cent and natural gas by 14.3 per cent. Increases in exchange rate have been cited for rising electricity and gas prices. The increase in the price of the gas we import and the increase in the exchange price are also effective, but the main factor is the lack of the system of automotive pricing. This system, the Automatic Adjustment System, has not been running for 34 months. Based on these grounds, we respectfully present the opening of a parliamentary investigation into natural gas agreements and pricing of natural gas policies in accordance with Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Charter of TBM. [[Antalya]] [[Yozgat]] [[Mughle]] [[Erzurum]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İzmir]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Lug]] 9) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Elizipt]] 11) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Kayseri]] [[Mersin]] [[Kütahya]] 15) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 18) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] 22) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Inconceived]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[Kastamon]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our very existence and national value, which is a factor in announcing Ankara's name to the world and is known as the Ankara Goat in the world literature, is the survival of the Ankara goat race, the continuation of its species and the increase of its production, and the Constitutional Assembly of Turkey's 104 and 105. In accordance with the clauses, we would like to submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research. 13th Ankara Goat It was brought to Asia Minor by Turks from the eastern Caspian Sea in the century. Since then, Ankara Goat has continued to be an advanced Middle Anatolian and distinguished income animal in this region by adapting 100% to the dry climate and soil of Central Anatolia. After the Turkish settlement to Anatolia, it has been especially adapted to the climate conditions of the Interior Anatolian, its properties have been clear and has become a special race in this region. Mohair in many countries is the product of the Ankara Goat. Thus, the Typhic Goat is also known as the Ankara Goat in the world literature. Because of its name, Turkey is one of the domestic goat races that spreads its knowledge of Ankara and Ankara. It weighs about 35 or 40 kilograms. Because of its long, silky white feathers, it is primarily brought up for fertilization. Central Anatolia and the Ankara District are a suitable area for the breeding of Tiftic Goats. Ankara Goat likes step climate. In low, damp climates, the tattish goat loses its racial features, itstire becomes rough, its brightness fades. So as we get closer to the coastal areas, the number of pistachio goats decreases and replaces it with a hair goat. Until 1939, only in Central Anatolia, especially in Ankara and the surrounding provinces, an economic value of Ankara's goat was taken from here to abroad at different times and kept its original name. It is still described as the Goat of Ankara all over the world and thus has announced the name of Ankara to the world. Ankara Goatsı has been rarely raised in all the districts of Ankara, but the most produced counties are Ayaş, Beypazarı, Güdül and Nallıhan. The wool of the Ankara Goat can easily be said to be the most widely used and sought fibres in the weaving industry today. Although it's a textile fibre, it's not usually used as pure in the weaving industry. It's used in different proportions with artificial fibers such as cotton, wool, of course, and acrylic. The largest consumption is in textile industry. It is used in cloths, luxury blankets, carpeting, tricotage industry, wig and toy industry, and parachute rope. As soon as the Typhic Goat arrives in Anatolia, it is slowly produced in Ankara and around Ankara. The hairs of the Typhic Goat were embroidered into threads, and from this thread was produced a distinct feature among Turkish fabrics, ▪Ankara Soft. Color types, the finesses of their touch, the subtleties of their pattern, stood out and created an important market resource by local, foreign traders. Until the 1840s, he was raised only in the Inner Anatolian region, and after that he was taken to South Africa (1838) and to America (1849) and to the United States (1849). While the most important product produced by the Ankara Goat is tic, its flesh, skin, and rarely milked. Today, in many countries around the world, Ankara Goats are being raised and highly productive. However, it has not been brought to the level of tics produced in our homeland in terms of its important properties, such as tics, subtlety, and softness. Other countries have increased the yield of tythics to an average of 4 kilograms (3-6). In our home, we have about 1.8-2kg of taffy production. The presence of Ankara Goats in our country has been dwindling day by day under the influence of economic, social and natural factors. Although its genetic source is Turkey's Ankara (Tiftik) goat, which has been registered and protected and exported, its presence has fallen to thousands of statements. It is estimated that the presence of the Tiftic Goat, which was 3.6 million heads in the 1980s, is now under 110,000 heads. In this reduction, the lack of tattic prices and market problems, the unconscious use of mera, and the transformation of mera into agricultural areas, the use of mera as a forest area again, the use of mera as a forest area, the use of the necessary information to growers, the lack of adapting to intensive breeding methods, the increased meat prices by the price of tattics. We need to increase the production of Ankara Goat, which is our very existence and national value. And for that, It must be guaranteed to sell for the value price of the material to produce. In typhic marketing, the Tiftic Union must be activated for the solution to problems. This union should be encouraged by supporting producers. In accordance with the industry's demand, the tythic standard must be created and encouraged and supported by the research done and done in this direction. A Parliamentary Research must be opened in order to resolve the problems mentioned above and determine and investigate the measures to be taken. [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] 3) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Kütahya]] [[Adana]] [[Adana]] [[Slap]] 9) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Tripoli]] [[Paddles]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Ankara]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Mughle]] [[Kastamon]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Mersin]] 21) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly My Constitution is 98th to determine the measures to be taken by resuscitation of animalism brought to an end in Kars County, which is the main source of livestock, and by identifying the problems in the animal industry and the problems that people are experiencing in this area. And 104th of the Turkish National Assembly's Civil Charter. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully submit the opening of Parliamental research. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] More than 80% of the Kars population earns a living by animalism. In the province where animalism does not turn into a strong industry, this activity is usually carried out in the form of a large number of cattle or small animals that support their families. In recent years, however, complaints from Kars have been raised that animalism has now become impossible. The government, saying it supports and supports animalism and rural development through direct income support and incentives, has launched an import of meat to Kars. Its main source of livelihood is animalism, which has increased input prices, making domestic producers and peasants unable to do business. In the province where 80% deal in livestock, these hikes to the wrong agricultural policies, disinterest and input prices have hit animalism. The number of small animals, 379,720 in 2005, has dropped to 270,000 today, as the small family and business that operates in small livestock is almost extinct. The number of cattle is only 461,208. If we go further back, it will be seen that in 1980, there were 600 thousand cattle, about 1,600,000 small cattle. With regard to the potential that Kars is having, it will be evident that the situation we are in is genuinely worrying. This dark picture requires immediate intervention, while the real issues of the province are being manipulated. The government, which claims to strengthen agriculture and animalism, has bankrupted businesses with incentives and support that are not appropriate for the province's real need, and farmers, peasants, banks are owed money. The continuation of the existing practices of the peasant, the laborer, the farmer's labor will bring animalism into history. He can't drink a cup of tea in coffee with a kilo of milk he's selling. Kars, who is famous for sluts, honey, chechil cheese, butter, has no way of selling these products out. Speaking on behalf of the AKP government, officials have made it almost an art to create confusion in the public with numbers, and are trying to justify themselves by narrating it almost every chance they get. We all know that data and numbers shed light on future policies, plans and work, but also the problems of the manufacturer and the feeder and the truth are out in the open. If you don't see them and say words to confuse them, you will lose your credibility and credibility in the public eye. The official mouths, which say about 45 percent of the people of this country are the occupations of this country, lead to total destruction, with the villager, the farmer, the small operators, as well as their practices leading to bankruptcy. Kars, a province that has already migrated in the current situation, will become a human-free city by giving more migration if no measures are taken and projects that will strengthen rural development by listening to people's demands. In view of all these issues, we find it appropriate to open a parliamentary investigation to intervene immediately in this urgent situation. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, the government has a demand according to Article 89 of the Civil Charter for the renegotiation of Articles 5 and 7 in the First Section of the Act on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster Risks of 180, which is discussed. I'm having the advisory board read its opinion on the request: The government's request for a re-interview of Articles 5 and 7 of the Law Charter on the Transformation of Areas Under 180 Numbers of Disasters has been approved by the Council of Counsellors on Article 89 of Institution. Nurettin Canikli M. Akif Hamzacebi Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Now, I will have the government's request read and vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly One of the 180 Orders of the Numbered Bill. We demand a re-interview of Articles 5 and 7 in your department under Article 89 of Institution. The 7th Article, which regulates evacuation and destruction, and the 7th article, which contains provisions for transformation revenues, is useful in reevaluation of the TKM General Assembly. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The government's demand for the renegotiate of the 5th and 7th amendments will be met at the appropriate time. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Wednesday (now) 16,05.2012, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Council. AK PARTY Group Deputy President 241, 232, 226, 179, 275, 97, 101, 153, 155, 178, 59, 127, 233, 108, 114, 206, 89, 90, 54 and 16 of the drafts in the Commission's drafts and drafts 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 21, 21 and 22, according to this order of other tasks, and to that order of other tasks. Until Wednesday, May 16, 2012 (now) the meeting of the talks has been completed until the 226th draft law, Until Thursday, May 17, 2012, when the talks of business were completed until the draft bill number 233, If the daily programs were not completed at 24 p.m. at the top of the list, until the daily schedules were completed, On Tuesday (June 22, 29th 2012), 05, 12th and 19th 2012, an hour of verbal discussion of oral questions, followed by other audit issues, discussing the agenda's legislation and proposals and other jobs from the commissions, 23 May 30 2012, 06, 13 June and 20 June 2012, Wednesday's uninterviewed oral questions, 22 May 2012, 05, 12 June and 19, 2012, between 3:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m., 23, 24, 30, 31 May 2012, 06, 07, 13, 14, 20 and 21 June 2012, Wednesday and Thursday, between 2:00 and 8:00 p.m. Keep up the good work, The 91st Amendment of the 233 Numbered Bill. In accordance with the article, it is considered the basic law, and its sections are in the following form of the ruler; It's recommended. Bill of Negotiation in Law Incompatibility 233 rows [[1/486]] CHAPTERS CHAPTER MADDES PART OF THE SCENE 1. Episode 1 to 18 Articles 18 2. CHAPTER 19 - 38 And with their second joke, it's temporary. 23) == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man The first word in favour of the Justice and Development Party's group proposal belongs to Mr. Nurettin Canikli, MP of Giresun. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0028par0365	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. With our group proposal, the hours are being held until June 21st, dear friends. So far, it's 3:20 on Tuesdays. 00 a.m. and Wednesday, 2:00 a.m. on Thursdays, 20 a.m. A 00-shaped working-time system has been implemented for a long time. However, due to these deadlines, which have been approved by our previous group, it must be brought back as a group proposal and presented to Parliament's approval. If our proposal is accepted, by June 21st, we'll be working again at 3:00-20 on Tuesdays. It's scheduled to be 00; Wednesdays, Thursdays, 2:00-20. Hopefully we'll do the General Assembly work between 00. Again, with this group's proposal, we propose that some international contracts be brought forward in order to ensure their negotiations. If this proposal is accepted, the order of the legislation on international contracts mentioned here will be changed, and it will be moved forward to pave the way for their talks. If our group proposal is accepted, today we will discuss the bill that we're interviewing, the bill that we continue to discuss yesterday, the bill on disaster transformation. You know, the second section had to talks. Again, there's a bill of law on the creation of two universities and the changing of the university's name, and we're going to hold his meetings, and finally today we're going to hold talks on the law on pharmacists. We've put an end to it, but in our proposal, we're guessing, so we're predicting, we're predicting that these talks will be completed today before the game time, and we're predicting that it'll be before eight o'clock, so we're guessing it'll be about seven and a half. We also plan to meet with the groups tomorrow to discuss legislation on some 10 international contracts, so if these laws are completed today, we will meet and discuss 10 international contracts tomorrow. We also estimate that they will be completed before the scheduled hour, which is thought to be eight hours, and their talks will be concluded. That is our suggestion; I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0029par0375	Thank you, Mr. Canicli. The first word against the group's proposal is from Mr. Aytun Çıray. Here you go, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0030par0379	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I go to the Justice and Development Party's group proposal, I'd like to go into a lawful word with the AKP about our holidays, our national holidays. You know, three days from now, we'll celebrate the 93rd year of the arrival of Ataturk. However, the AKP has managed to make this historic day when the Turkish nation was born from the ashes a means of division. They've finally ruined our holidays. What is it? They're gonna save national holidays from some sort of militant celebration. Our high school, college boys are celebrating hand-to-hand holidays with our people. If we don't know the AKP, if we don't know what's wrong with the Republic and its values, we'll regret to say how he's trying to destroy those values one by one, so that we don't understand that he's destroying them: Yeah, who's gonna object to that? Why? We, May 19th, are only happy to be celebrated by the vast and enthusiastic participation of our people. If the government makes the necessary arrangements to meet its requirements, we will support and be happy with them. However, the foot of the goose is not what they say it is, dear friends. The AKP's mentality is doing again what it always does, and it's misleading the truth again by relying on the shackles it puts on the media. Dear lawmakers, the AKP has bad intentions about the holidays. It's so bad that information theft was registered by a court order, so a minister of national education, who was the last person on earth to take this position. This zat wanted the 19th of May to be celebrated only in schools, with a bloc dated January 11, 2012. According to this sentence, which reveals the true intentions of the AKP mentality, there will be no celebrations in any stadium outside Ankara. However, our nation reacted greatly to this sentence. Some of our citizens have filed a lawsuit in the State's Office concerning the cancellation of this district and the halting of the execution. The prosecutor's office has justified the justification of a young man from the province's case and has decided to stop the execution. In short, if we can celebrate the good and bad 19th of May today, and these are saved from being imprisoned in schools, we owe it to a young man and an Indian lawyer. It was a very valuable civilian initiative, and I'm celebrating these friends. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you have no intention of celebrating our national holidays according to the conditions of the day. In these words, in fact, you're concealing your own original intentions, trying to put the public to sleep with brilliant words and fancy phrases. You want to put another stone in a path that leads to your ultimate goals under the table. I'm sorry to say you're also successful at this. Because you've put a chain on almost all the media. Whatever message he wants to be given in Turkey, the media releases it to the public, and then it feels like a sock rip. Just the media? You are silent in the face of this system of tyranny. Ataturk could be criticized under this roof by his friends; Ismet Pasha could be criticized by his own friends under this roof; Menderes could be criticized by his own friends; anyone who has ever served as Prime Minister could be criticized under this roof; but you cannot criticize this Prime Minister because of his bullying order, you can't criticize him, you can't criticize him, for perhaps for the first time in history. On the contrary, we've all seen here how you celebrate the elimination of the secular regime in the law of 4+4+4. Now he wants to surrender our spirit of independence and will, which is rising on May 19th. And the best way to do that is to get these qualities covered in mud, polluting them and devalue them, and it's obviously time for our holidays to be desecrated and devalued. We can't get rid of your hateful and hateful policies -- God exists -- any of our values. And our holidays are being raped by this arrogant and tyrannical mindset, which calls me all the ways. Dear lawmakers, the AKP unfortunately has a real agenda and a false statement. The real agenda is to destroy the republic's founding values and soul. Let no one deceive themselves, intent, facing history, fitting our festivals to the present conditions and so forth, intent, fighting the founding history of our republic, rewriting our republic's history in accordance with your language of hate, taking a rematch from the republic; that's the goal. Can you tell me, Ismet Pasha, Ismet Pasha, Celal Bayar, Kazim Karabekir, that there is another prime minister in the history of the world who denies the history of the Prime Minister, who makes hate attacks on historical personalities he owes the cause of existence? Members of parliament, the process has accelerated, and the circle is shrinking more and more, and those who do not touch me should live a thousand. The time has come to remove all basic principles of the Republic of Turkey, secularism, republic and nationalism. Such a person is nothing more than a public humiliation of our national and spiritual values. Omer Dinçer fears May 19th (May 19th) as he fears the light of day, attacking as he attacks any value that makes us who we are. It's actually free Turkey he's afraid of. Unfortunately, that understanding has begun to destroy our national unity. Our common future is at stake. Is it different out there when there's no right, no justice, no mercy? You didn't understand the policy of peace in the city. The case of the innocent children who lost their lives after the foul bombing in Damascus revealed that the democracy they wanted to be brought to Syria was no different than Iraq, and for the first time in our history, the head of our government was accused of being a child killer. This is an embarrassment to our nation, no matter what its cause, as a result of all the values of the Turkish nation being reversed, but many are gone and few are left. People will see who you are, what you really want. Even though our words cannot be written, the Internet will spread from ear to ear, even if the Internet is banned. The truth will not be camouflaged by the dirty grin of Bulent Arinc, who disrespected the heroic Balkans in Bursa. See what Mehmet Sevket Eygi, head of the National Gazette, says: "They say, 'Kuraan,'they disregard the orders and bans of the Quran.'" They call it "The Prophet," they say "The Sunnet," they do anything they don't approve of. They say, 'We are reforming.' They do nothing but corruption. Allah will disgrace them and turn them upside down. Dear lawmakers, the AKP is the target of these truths by a writer from the same ideological background as you. Because you've built a maze of darkness based on tyranny. Now, in this maze of darkness, you want to extinguish the light of our festivals that light our way. Actually, your purpose is clear. You want to bury in history the values that the Turkish nation built our democracy over. However, as soon as he has eyes, he has ears, but even when our Koran is burned, I ask the Prime Minister for hope: Stop these revenge and rematch policies. Otherwise, the curses will come upon you, and the Day of Judgement will surely come upon you, which you used to claim will not come upon you. Don't say I didn't warn you. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0031par0392	Mr. President, the speaker just insulted our group and our government, and I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0032par0393	Mr. Kaplan will speak against you, and then I will give you my word, if you wish.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0033par0394	Let him get high, then relax, and answer them all at once. Let him have a flash...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0032par0395	There's no more in favor, and I can give it to you in favor.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0034par0396	Okay.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0032par0397	Against the group's proposal, Mr. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0035par0399	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Civil Code is such a procedure that either against it or against it, I'm going to talk about it. This species, you know, we associate with each other from time to time on the work of the House. We're not objecting to these agendas again. At the advisory board, we called the suggestions from our group's vice president, the ruling party, the friends from the other party, "Yes." But one must see the truth. To see that, I want to take you not far, but back to 2002. There are two parties in parliament after the 10 per cent dam in 2002: the ruling party is the EC PARTY, and the main opposition party is the Republican People's Party. It's a binary system. And because he reads poetry there, the Prime Minister can't be a candidate for parliament due to the final ruling issued by Diyarbakır DGM on Article 312 of the Turkish Penal Code. The poetry elections are being cancelled. There's a Beskoz meeting going down while the poetry elections are being canceled. After the Beykoz meeting, there was a amendment in parliament, a special law for the individual, a special for the Prime Minister, and at that time, he returned from the President, saying that these laws were private for the individual, and they were spoken again. I see great benefit in your remembering. The temporary clause one -- you have it under your hand -- says: The last joke of the Article 667 is not in the first inter-election of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey during the 22nd term. You know that when election laws were changed a year away, the constitutional amendment was needed, and a special law was passed for Mr. Prime Minister due to the constitutional amendment. As a result of that special law, the Ziirt elections were cancelled, CHP had won a parliamentary position, and Prime Minister lost a legislature, and Mr. Prime Minister was elected, Mr. Gul handed over, became Prime Minister, and thus far continues this mission. I looked at the records of that day. When I read these transcripts, I found out on my conscience that every congressman has a situation to question. Then Mr. Attila Card comes out, speaks of freedom of opinion and thought, and gives a positive view of the changes made in the Constitution. The president is asking if anyone else wants to talk. No. No speeches for the groups. On behalf of the individuals, there is no request for a statement. There are 459 acceptances in this parliament, 54 rejections in which a special law has been passed, and a special law has been passed for the Prime Minister. While the Prime Minister will not be able to become president in his life, he became MP because of this Congress, he becomes Prime Minister, and now he's a candidate for the presidency. When we think of these things, it hurts your conscience to say that when we confront the Prime Minister's words in a very recent past, he says: "The constitution is very clear, there is no formula for the prisoner. For God's sake, this Parliamentary Council has made a special law against you, Mr. Prime Minister. Now, you've spoken to the Speaker, you've summoned three members of the House, the Speaker has decided to be called after your meeting, and we've discussed it, and we've made an offer. After this proposal, you object as if eight MPs of Parliament had not been arrested, as if nothing had happened, and as if they had not experienced these processes, as if they had not happened. I -- my group didn't exist then, but -- if I was CHP, if I was part of the main opposition party, there's no such thing as ungrateful. He did this for you when this Congress was making a special law, but you're doing this, Mr. Prime Minister. What is your double standard? The issue of arrested lawmakers is our problem as long as they are imprisoned, the problem of parliament, the problem of democracy, the problem of the new constitution, the difference in every critical vote here will be the subject of discussion when it falls below 8. Now, are we gonna let this go? No one's gonna let this go. Especially when our lawmakers are in prison for crimes of thought, which will be ignored. He read a poem, Mr. Prime Minister. He's been punished. Our parents made a speech, and they made a statement, and Turkey explained their thoughts, and they're inside for it, and they didn't even get a ticket. Now, someone who's being punished can be a congressman by special law, and it can't be that cruel and cruel about lawmakers who haven't even been punished yet, my friends. This shouldn't be the spirit of this House, it shouldn't be the soul of you. You know the laws of the near future, where special laws have been passed for the Undersecretary of MIT. Let him go, there's been a change in the former Turkish Penal Code charges of abuse in Article 240. There have been changes that would mean forgiveness for torture crimes, and all of which have recently been done in this House, but this Parliament, like an unstitchable tailor, can't speak for eight arrested MPs. So in this House, whatever the Prime Minister says will happen. If the Prime Minister says it will be, it won't be. This isn't a democracy, guys. The only party, the only leader, is the dictatorship. Is that what you want, or do you really want a new democratic regime with a new constitution? On behalf of these five arrested MPs, we say that our friends have been in bed for three years. They lie down like lions, with their foreheads wide open, with their heads up, with their heads held high, with honor, and like tigers, they answer for it. The people will answer for the injustices of a regime that has turned into a union of forces, from political judgment, politicalisation, non-profit. The people must have asked about it in the chest. There we have it. None of the ruling parties in the 2002 elections are here anymore. Guys, we're not gonna let this go. I'm telling you, as long as our MPs are under arrest, we're not gonna let this go, we're gonna be his followers, we're gonna be in the squares, we're gonna be in the fields. Just yesterday, on Mother's Day, our arrested MP Gülser Yıldırım, Mardin MP, was not interviewed by four of his children on Mother's Day, you know, in prison. He hasn't been interviewed by his children in prison. He's a member of the House. You don't know these things, and it doesn't suit you when you know them, but I'll tell you this: as long as eight members of this House are under arrest, this Congress will be arrested, and you'll know this, and in 2002, the Prime Minister will remember that law, remember that law made for him, remember that law made for him, and apologize to him, not from the people, not from us. Since he was elected by the people's votes, the lawmakers were asked to... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...he will apologize one day and these MPs will be among us as soon as possible. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0036par0409	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Canikli, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, you have the right to speak in your favor. I'll promise you no hard feelings.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0037par0413	Not without teasing and not twice.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0036par0414	Okay, fine. Here you go. I promised him no hard feelings.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0038par0419	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen have just used a statement, such as the Prime Minister's bullying order, during his speech. Now, everyone needs to know, dear friends, that right now this system is designed by our nation, in all its aspects, in all its dimensions. In 2002, in order to implement the system that is currently being implemented, to govern, to govern, our nation gave this task to the EC PARTY. And then, in 2007, again, this mission was recommitted with even more strong will, in 2011, as well. So what you call a system of violence is the order of the nation. It's the order that the nation has repeatedly sanctioned, approved, unappropriated, pleased with its application, re-established the same staffs, the same people, the same people. I mean, the way people talk about it, the way people stamp people, the way they punch people, the way they live, the way they live, the way they operate, the way they bully, is that the kind of logic you think? That logic is a lame logic. This logic is a rationale that defames people, ignores people, ignores people, looks down on people, looks down on people, looks down on people, is sick and crippled, dear friends, and forgive me, because all of these actions are being carried out in this system, in which we are all in this system, in which the people are voted by the Grand National Assembly, through elected MPs of the nation. This is the system you criticize, and in certain times, people have the opportunity to change them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's changing, it's bringing it to life. But if you want to see the tyranny, dear friends, if someone wants to see the tyranny, they'll go back a little bit, and there's all kinds of examples there.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0039par0424	Are you talking about 35 decrees under the law that you brought in with the House closed?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0038par0425	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0040par0427	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0041par0428	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0040par0429	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, by saying...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0041par0430	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0040par0433	First of all, I'd like to point out that the Republican People's Party is always talking about 49 percent of this nation. We have great respect for that 49 percent, that will.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0042par0434	That's will, that's will.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0040par0435	We have the right to expect the same respect from the AKP. This nation is that 51 percent.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0043par0436	Is that you, 51 percent?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0040par0437	Gentlemen, let me tell you this: you are the continuation of the tyranny regime of September 12th. Look, I'm going to read you a piece from an interview. Gentlemen, there's a photograph. At first, he says: "Mr. Prime Minister, the Universe has become a fan." One photograph: The Universe sits cheerfully in the middle, with it half-standing, bowed down, Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Under this photograph, it says: "The Recep Tayyip Erdogan who came to the Kalender Army house gave the glass vase to Kenan Evren Evren. " So we let him in without telling anyone. He sat down for half an hour. Why is he here? He offered me his respect, his love, and he spoke of my kindness to this country. Now, is there any insult in these words?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0044par0439	The boaman's witness is the winer!
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0040par0440	There's no insult in those words, but these are the words you should accept, dear friends. As for the tyranny regime, you sent the message to 70 million, you detained the Prime Minister's protestors, you spread the fear that others might come instead of the milkman's when the door was knocked in the morning, you lost the land for the first time since the fall of the Ottomans, you condemned those who said, "Happy Turk." You condemned the workers, the peasants, the unemployed, the claim against the markets. If the coup was the name of what was done to democracy, rights and freedoms, you struck this country with a civil blow like honey. I give you all love and respect.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0045par0444	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0046par0446	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. What's the definition of bullying? What is the definition of tyranny? What events, what verbs are involved in this concept? I didn't want to get into this, but really, there have been some very unjust accusations.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0047par0448	Come in, come in, better come in.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0046par0449	Look, let's go in, okay, I'll give you an example, then, and I'll give you an example.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0048par0450	It's bullying to strangle a student. Did the Prime Minister do it or not?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0046par0451	One of your deputies is walking to the stand to express his opinion in the congress, in an environment where opinions are compiled, shared with the public, in order to exercise his most natural right. So what happened? He walked to the stand, so when he said don't walk, he just walked to the stand to express his opinion. What happened? He was beaten in the neck, kicked out. Who is this MP? He's your congressman. If you're looking for a bully, if you're looking for a concept, if you want an example, here's an example, and the best one. It's a shame, guys. It's a shame. So what I'm saying is, look, if people are deciding this, if people are filling that concept, people have decided over and over again. He stated that this administration has been in favor of him since 2002, that he has practiced self-interest, that he has acted in action, that he has served in his service. How did he put it?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0048par0453	Who's playing the citizen? Look who's looking behind you, Minister!
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0046par0454	By increasing your support. That's what our people say, that's what they decide...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0048par0455	Who's playing the citizen, making fun of him?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0046par0456	...you will respect the decision of the nation. People don't think like you do. People, on the contrary, if there's a despotism, if there's a possibility of tyranny, it's particularly directed at someone as a political party and staff that he doesn't trust, that he doesn't. That's what people call it. If you're looking at it from a second angle, that's what our people say. So the AK PARTY is definitely not pushing or implementing policies that might mean that, that's what people are saying. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0049par0460	Thank you, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0050par0461	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0049par0462	Wait a second... In the meantime, there's a proposal from the Justice and Development Party Group in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, I'll present it to you now, and then I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0050par0467	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit01spe0049par0468	Okay, I'll just call the number. All in favor... It's announced to the judges, it's announced to the governors, and I'm afraid I'm deciding by the count of these two gentlemen. There's no decision enough, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0049par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 107th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The ruling vote for the Justice and Development Party's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted, there is enough to decide.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0051par0004	Mr. President, Mr. Nurettin Canikli has made an example of the Republican People's Party's congresses to taunt our party, our group. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0049par0005	I can't promise not to pick on you now that we're taking a break, so I'll give you your place, if you like.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0051par0006	Now, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0049par0007	Okay, here you go. Yilmaz Hodjaoğlu has not broken the Civil Charter, but I will. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0051par0009	Mr. President, just a moment. I'm not asking you to break the Civil Code. But you...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0049par0010	No, that's fine. Yeah, we're on a break because we've been asked to make a decision. Now, with all due respect, I promise.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0051par0011	After Mr. Canikli's word to you, I asked for a word.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0049par0012	I said I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0051par0013	You did.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0049par0014	Okay, it's not about you, it's about me, that's what I'm saying. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0051par0016	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0049par0017	I couldn't hurt him. I just told all the MPs, "I'm sorry." You yelled at him for half an hour. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0051par0021	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, we don't have any party friends who can't speak, who want to be on the stand and who can't. Let me explain this to you first. Secondly, there has just been an argument here about violence, democracy, sovereignty, management of the majority. Democracy is not just the rule of the majority. If we just take democracy as the rule of the majority, we'll be misidentifying it. Democracy is the name of the regime where legitimate governments take over. If we reduce legitimacy only to public sovereignty, we'll be making a very incomplete definition. Of course, the sovereignty of the people is essential, essential to legitimacy, but only if we reduce it to that, in a regime where the majority decides everything, there is a conclusion that the majority will accept any decision to restrict the individual's fundamental rights and freedoms as a majority behind it, which is clearly not what democracy intends to do. Legality is the public support behind a political system, a government, parliament or other institutions. That's the first condition in classical democracy, but this support has been added to a second condition, which is legitimate as long as the administrations with this support act righteously and fairly. Act righteously and justly means that the majority of society is behind the decisions. If you are satisfied with the majority that are reflected in Parliament alone, if you ignore the rest, it is impossible to justify that administration, the problem is here. The AKP has a problem with legitimacy in its practices. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0052par0025	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and move to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law and other actions from the Commission. Mr. Ayşe Nurkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Mr. Ahmet Aydın Üdıyaman, who is ranked in the 1st rank of Justice and Development Party Group Chairs İstanbul MP, Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mr. Kareseri MP, Mr. Karesun MP, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Mr. Ahmet Aydın, we will continue to talk on the amendments of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Institution Proposal Proposal Proposal. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under Disasters, which is ranked in the 2nd place, where we left off from the Ministry, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0053par0038	Mr. President, half the lawmakers in the ruling group are standing. Could there be such an interview, sir, could it be a serious meeting?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0052par0039	Mr. Serindağ, you're wonderful. Now, I don't watch football, so I don't get it, so there's no problem sitting till morning, but in terms of watching the game... You decide. Yes, in yesterday's merger, the talk on the second part of the bill, which was considered a fundamental law, according to Article 91 of the Civil Code, was completed on behalf of the Party of Peace and Democracy. Now, it's Mr. Ilyas Candy who wants to speak for the Justice and Development Party Group. Dear Sugar, here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0054par0045	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group regarding the bill for the transformation of Areas Under the Disaster No. 180. I salute the High Council. Article 23 of the Constitution shall be charged with healthy and regular urbanization, Article 56 of the Article 57 shall live in a healthy and balanced environment, and with all measures taken to the state in order to meet the need for housing within the framework of planning the properties of cities and environmental conditions. Honourable lawmakers include improvements, liquidation and renovations can be made to create healthy and safe life frameworks that meet science norms and standards in areas at risk of disaster and areas of risky structures and fields. The rapidly developing urbanization process is at the top of our country's major problems. With industrialisation in the 1950s, cities such as Istanbul, Izmir, Ankara, Schepeli grew up in uncontrollably by taking intensive migration. In cities that have been exposed to intense migration without planning, problems are due to various reasons, such as the creation of unrestrained settlements, crooked and unhealthy construction, urbanization, insufficient infrastructure, and lack of social hardware, which do not care for the dangers and risks. As it is known, a large part of our country is at risk of disasters, especially earthquakes. However, it is known that most of the existing structures are not resistant to possible disasters, that even in a medium-violent earthquake, they are severely damaged, and therefore socioeconomic problems have arisen, and that the state is unexpectedly facing major financial burdens. Respected lawmakers, the 1999 Marmara earthquake, causing the deaths of tens of thousands of people, and the next 2011 Van earthquake, have revealed the true dimension of these disasters in a painful way. The buildings were seriously tired, even though it wasn't damaged by the Marmara earthquake and the Van earthquake. In a possible earthquake, many of the buildings that seem to be intact today are considered to be destroyed. The Istanbul earthquake in particular is thought to have a serious impact on him. For him, the law must be adopted and enforced immediately. (x) 180 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 78th Consolidation Charter, dated 14/3/2012. And I don't want to go past this: it's known that the buildings that were destroyed in the earthquake weren't just illegal buildings, but some of them were registered buildings. Architects and engineers, who are licensed to be responsible for the buildings that have been destroyed, and the rooms they are in, must and must be reviewed. It is also particularly curious to know what kind of transactions the architect-engineering rooms perform on these members. Unfortunately, as far as the press is concerned, these rooms are congratulating the project owner of the building that didn't collapse in the earthquake. The rooms that signed under the project he didn't draw, who didn't go to him during the construction of the building he was responsible for, who didn't even know where the building was built, and who didn't have to be questioned and questioned. Honourable lawmakers, in general with the Bill of the Law on the Transformation of Areas Under Disasters, 1- Geological status and ground properties in areas that are not suitable for building, 2- In areas where historical structures under threat of destruction are dense, 3- In places in the past where unplanned and uncontrollable construction, inadequate infrastructure, a healthy environment, and living conditions are extremely inadequate, 4- In places where there was a natural disaster and could be stopped (depression, fire, flood and so forth), 5- A transformation must be made in areas where social equipment and infrastructure services are inadequate. The lack of parking garages, which are few because of the rapid rise of prosperity levels in the country along with the AK PARTI administration, is not a parking lot, so there are 7-8m roads between the city and its neighborhood are occupied by evening vehicles. God forbid, when there's a fire, when he's sick, there's no way the fire department gets in these streets. In areas where environmental impacts have negative consequences, transforming projects should be first and must be implemented immediately. For example, nearby dwellings in the area of filling facilities are a serious risk in this regard. Because of the fire that occurred on the first day of the 1999 Marmara earthquake in Turkey's southeastern province, people who lived in Marseilles were forced to leave the city because of the fire, leaving their loved ones, their mothers, their fathers, their children, their children in the rubble. The evacuation of the city was seriously troubled. Here, these transformations must be made first in these areas. Again, in every fire in the filling facilities in these areas, the heart of Alexei comes to his mouth. Due to past random construction and planning errors, housing and filling facilities are unfortunately intertwined. Respected lawmakers are obliged to re-organise or transfer the residence around here by transforming these disaster-threatening settlements from their location immediately. The conversion of dwellings and workplaces around here and transfer to other places will be based primarily on volunteering. In the light of science, cities under the threat of all kinds of natural disasters and social infrastructure should be transformed, rehabilitated, rehabilitated, and eventually brought to human life by a new identity. The transformation of areas at risk of disaster is not only the transformation of the physical space where man will live, but also a healthy and reliable environment, economic, social, cultural and infrastructure. I'd also like to mention something that I've observed here at General Assembly and Commission meetings. In particular, fellow speakers from the opposition often act under a rant prejudice under any arrangement that is intended to be made. I wonder, if they were in power, would they have passed every law based on this axis, based on the Rant axis? I'm curious about that. Here, of course, it's hard not to remember the beautiful saying: the idea of the dervishe is what it is. Honourable lawmakers, for the protection of natural and historical beauty, the human comfort of life and the more efficient and conscious use of the country's territory, the planning must be made first throughout the country. As in all matters, the EC PARTI has signed first and first planned on this issue in Turkey for the first time, and in 2004 the legal work needed to be carried out in the province's private administrations, the urban municipalities, the environmental planning of the province, the development plans of the Nazim was carried out by the State Special Administration Act 5302, and in 2004 by the City Municipality Law 5216. Again, the Metropolitan Municipality Law and the plans for the development of zoning on a scale of 1/5,000 and 25,000 scale have been established. There's no decent urbanization without planning. Honourable MPs, by the way, I'd like to remind you of both issues. I'd like to remind you of the promise of our two elders. In his words, the government is obliged to live in a safe environment, in a safe dwelling, with honor, with dignity, with dignity, with dignity, with prosperity. Once again, I would like to end up with Sultan Mehmet of Fatih Mehmet's beautiful words about the warmth, the essence, the soul of cities: (Hüner, a city is to build.) So the real skill is to build people's hearts, soul, self, and to build cities that will bring peace to the people, he says. I thank and pay my respects to everyone who's passed the job.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0055par0071	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. First word for the individuals, Mr. Hasan Hami Yıldırım of Burdur MP... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0056par0075	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Bill of the Law on the Transformation of Areas Under Disasters. As I begin my words, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the bill develops methods of intervention in accordance with the problems, conditions, needs of our settlements. Recovery, renovation, or liquidation are envisioned in its place. Of course, the creek beds will have places to move, like landslide. But it's not fair to call this bill from here "a bill of exile," "a bill of exile." The bill aims for habitable settlements. The bill provides ministry plan, finance and land support, municipalities and municipal private administrations, in condition of necessity, the TOKI implements. Urban transformation is co-operation with central and local governments around the world. Central administration is always on the side of the project. In the event of disaster, it is not possible for the central administration to be kept out, especially as the bill was laid out. In the bill, as in all the world, public-private sector cooperation is being brought into play. Dear friends, we have a problem. We have to create healthy and safe environments in case of disaster, but we also have to move fast, find flexible solution models. It is the law of mobilisation of private sector opportunities, not the law of hiring private sectors, as it is claimed. The right of residence is not an abstract right. However, a healthy, safe, balanced life can be found in a balanced environment, as all international contracts and Articles 56 and 57 of our Constitution are indicated. Thus, of course, risky structures and settlements must be interfered with. The bill aims to intervene in favour of the citizen. That's what the deal is, when it's not possible, it's about publicization, it's about value-based planning practices. As claimed in the bill, property rights are not ignored; right of residence is literally considered. Dear lawmakers, i.e. Meralar can be used in case of disaster or risk. The decree was added to Law 7269 in 1999 after the Marmara earthquake. I'd like to ask the critics: Who was in power at the time? I believe what was done that day was true, and what was made today is true, it is necessary. Shouldn't we ask ourselves? Treasure lands and mechas can be used for what other more meaningful, more social purpose? We don't abandon disaster-threatening areas by design; we don't abandon individual plans on the parsel, on the scale, on the tear-down, on the do-sale scheme. We're not leaving a model of financing left at the mercy of the market mechanism to increase density in the parsel. With public funding, we are predicting a comprehensive transformation into the plan and project integrity. Now, don't we have to ask: in what way is the process being delivered to Ranta? We need to support this bill because it's aimed at converting the most disaster-threatening areas into healthy environments, because it doesn't deliver the most disaster-threatening areas. In the bill, the citizen is not pushed out of the process, on the contrary, the citizen is focused. It is based on the safety of the citizen. First of all, it's a social project, it's supported by low-incomes, rent benefits, temporary housing, under-cost sales... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... issubstantiated to twenty-year-old sales.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0057par0084	It's written, "It can be done," "it can be done," "it can be done," "it can be done," not "it can be done," "it can be done." The law says it's possible.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0056par0085	There are no citizens in this bill. There is only one thing I can say to those who say: Please study the text better!
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0057par0086	The law doesn't have to, and you know it. Tell the truth, it's written.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0056par0087	I wish you the best of your bill, and I pay you my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0058par0089	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. On behalf of the individuals, the last word belongs to Mr. Seyfetttin Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0059par0093	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself regarding the Bill of the Law on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster No. 180. I salute you all. Yes, 74 million of our citizens live in over 19 million buildings in our country, and nearly 10 million buildings have to be renovated. Now, we know these facts, and I believe we need to discuss why these facts have come to this. Now, I'd like to say good morning to Mr. Government and Mr. Secretary. You've been in central government for ten years, you've been in local government for nearly 20 years. So it's the same mentality that's responsible for the first degree of urban development in local governments. Now you realize that your urban municipalities can't get out of it, that they've made the cities uninhabitable, that you're bringing in a new study by shutting down a number of laws, as a result of what they're faced with an earthquake that's been destroyed. Now, I ask you, how many years has your Ankara Metropolitan Mayor been running this city? And again, how many billion dollars does he owe? He's been allegedly in debt for close to $6 billion, and he's been running this town for years with some twisted structures, and you're looking at it the other day, with a water show, he's doing a show at the Youth Park where Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Prime Minister, reflects the silhouettes. Now you have to ask Mr. Skycel: While you were out there doing that show, spending the nation's money, trillions, last week's rain, in the center of the city, in the center of the city, in the middle of the city, in Emek, in Çukurambar, in the most central places, we were struggling in the water. Stop running around from that tweet and deal with the affairs of this nation, Mr. Gravity. It's all about Istanbul.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0060par0099	How's he gonna respond?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0059par0100	You'll give it to me. Why don't you come and give it to me in a little while? Okay? You come, I'm making a bet, give it to me if it's wrong. I'm on my way to Istanbul now. Look, your Istanbul Mayor is holding a meeting on 25 May 2005 -- Istanbul Governor Muammar Guler, to his left, Professor Dr. Hussein Captain. Location: Tepehead TUYAP and it says that all of Istanbul's problems today stem from unplanned urbanization. The vision of Prost could not be seen beyond the dreams of Prost. Istanbul has neither the past nor the present and the distant projection and plan. Our goal is to plan the future of Istanbul. Now, you have to ask Topbaş: Who was mayor of Istanbul for five years before you? Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. And then who did it? Ali Mufit Gürtuna, which means you're going through with it. Now, with such a ambitious meeting -- where our governor is -- the Istanbul Metropolitan Center is being established in 2005, and about 550° academics are being employed here. There are city planners, architects, and 1/100 of Istanbul. He's planning a thousand. At the point of the city's development, 550 academics are doing intensive work and 1/100. It is considered to be a 000-alarm plan. 1/100. What does it say in the 5,000-pound plan? The control of Istanbul's progress toward the north, instead of the city growing gradually and leapt on its Marmara axis, south, and I plan the next century of Istanbul. But one morning, before the elections, Mr. Prime Minister appeared as a crazy project, a channel project in Istanbul. About six years spent hundreds of trillions of money in an environment where 550 academics planned the city, one morning, a six-year plan was thrown aside and targeted by the Prime Minister's direction, the target is the north of Istanbul, and is called the Black Sea axis. Now, Mr. President, I'm asking you here: how fair is it to let the poor, the poor, the mayors of Istanbul and Ankara, who use the world's resources here as their father's farm, take out the provisions of the poor, the poor, the strange guru here, the money of the mind that spends on tulips, tulip onions, lasers, light-shows? I think we should ask our consciences. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0061par0107	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Now, I'm going to go with the question-answer process. I'll read the names from yesterday and start with them. Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Öz, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Canalioğlu has entered. Mr. Irony, if you're here, please come in. There's something from yesterday. If Mr. Tezcan is here, let him in. I'll give it to them first. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0062par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, it's not about your concern, but there's a terrible smack disease in the Aegean District, and all the animal markets are closed, and the animals are not able to take their animals to the livestock markets much more than they are, but the loans don't wait, the banks put the loans back in place, and when we go to the villages, there's a notice. Could it be an attempt by the Department of Agriculture to delay bank loans in places where the animal markets are closed and where there's this kind ofluminescence? Because animals are having serious problems with it.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0061par0114	Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0063par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, Istanbul-Bursa-Izmir highway has been tendered. During the transition to Orhangazi and Gemlik, 36,000 trees were cut down over the detection of agricultural chambers and the project. Yes, you're not the Minister of Forestry, but since you're Minister of Environment and Urbanism, how do you see this as an environmental minister, even though there's another route and alternative, what kind of CED report or appropriate project was given here? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0064par0118	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0065par0119	Thank you, Mayor. 1) There is no building in the district of Kadıköy, Istanbul, where all units are collectively located. Do you plan to build a building in which the district of Kadıköy's district can be located within the building of the property registrar's office, the district's national educational directorship, the property manager's office, the population manager's office and all its units? 2) Because of the establishment of base stations in our districts of Sultanbeyli, Beykoz, Üskudar, Kartal, Pendik, Tuzla, Kadıköy, Ataşehir, our citizens in the dwellings are psychologically disturbed. So, do you have any work on the removal of cell towers from the housing areas? 3) He has a university of applied sciences in Hilvan district of Şanlıurfa Province, but has no building. The university of applied sciences studies in libraries. When do you plan to build a university of applied sciences in Hilvan County? 4) In Hilvan district, the price of publicisation has been paid to the citizens due to a number of miscalculations. Do you have any work on the removal of the victim? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0066par0125	Mr. Tezcan, please.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0067par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, earlier last week, in municipalities planned by your government to become a major, total city, the news has been released that all the jurisdictions of the city's municipalities have been taken by the ministry, the central government, before the bill has been passed, before the bill has been passed. It is not right to gather these powers in the central government without public discussion about the whole city that has affected the fate of millions of people in Turkey. Do you intend to give up the practice on this matter?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0066par0128	Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0068par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister said, "You will be paid and critical for theatre artists." And he continued, "If necessary, we, the government, will sponsor and support the games we want." We have to accept that in this country, theatre plays cannot be performed, television shows cannot be produced, ideas the Prime Minister does not like can not be voiced. There's just been an authoritarian debate. I'm asking the Minister, isn't this an epiphany of authoritarianism? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0069par0132	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0070par0133	Mr. President, speaking just now, is the Justice and Development Party Kobeeli MP trying to exonerate trade organisations, who are constantly opposed to wrong practices, for their opposition to the wrongs of the AKP's ruling? Among the duties of vocational rooms, they make complaints or crimes against their colleagues on disciplinary and honor boards with the understanding of a semi-public institution and punish them with disciplinary boards. Is there anything that he heard about that happened to professional organizations and they didn't get any results? Or is it because of your policy to silence every institution that opposes you, that you're restricting these powers, I'd like to ask our Minister.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0069par0134	Mr. Durmaz...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0071par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the conditions to be searched in the members of the governing body are expressed in the form of conditions to be searched in the general manager, and they must have at least ten years of professional experience in banking or management, according to the relevant articles of the Banking Law. Is this condition already fulfilled in terms of members of the Governing Body of the Provinces Bank? For example, does Mr. Serdar Çakkan, the chairman of the Governing Body, carry this condition? I wonder if you're related to him. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0072par0138	Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0073par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, 354 dwellings made by TOKİ in Tripoli Bahçik neighborhood have been said to have been issued to the owners of the lottery about three months ago, but the keys haven't been delivered yet. Why haven't citizens been given keys to the dwellings until now? Also, 11 of the 16 blocks are said to have been given use of structures, and there are still shortages for 5 blocks. Is that true? If so, when will these shortcomings be completed? Thank you. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0074par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. In February, there was a landslide in the village of the Confederate Tree, and it covers a vast area. The houses are cracked, the walls cracked, unsettled. Only four homes have been damaged. These operations are said to be continuing, but there are more damage to the people who live there in that area in the coming years. They also feed there. So, we're going to re-examine that area and...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0075par0146	Mr. Secretary, please. You have seven and a half minutes, use it accordingly.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0076par0148	Mr. President, I'd like to present the matter to our concerned minister regarding Mr. Yilmaz. The expression of Mr. Demirözüz is being cut down 36,000 trees on the Istanbul-Izmir Highway. I'd like to point out in particular that the tree that's going to be cut down on this road, I don't know exactly, but it has to be two times as many trees, so it's in the tender condition, maybe three times as many, but I know it's twice as many. In this regard, without hesitation, we are deeply concerned about environmentalism and the forest, the planting of trees. In terms of routes, I want to express as a technical element, the route of the road is generally single, so it's based on the most ergonomic, most economical, most appropriate, years of long feasibility and research, engineering accounts. In that respect, I'd like to say that the route was detected in this direction. Thank you. Mr. Tanal has expressed that we continue to work not only in İstanbul Kadıköy, but in order to ensure that public buildings, especially important public services, such as deeds, such as health, will be collected under the subsidiary building -- outside the hospital. I don't know anything about Baz stations, so I can give information to Mr. Tanal. I can also follow and present information to the university of applied sciences in Şanlıurfa. I don't know about that, but I can also tell you that I'm going to be able to review the malfunctions there again and give you information. What Mr. Tezcan has said is that decisions made not by the capital city, but by the whole city, are based on the decision -- there are only transactions on the plan's taste and zoning practices -- are being performed by the central municipality, where the whole city will be formed, not being stopped, not being taken to the centre. It's just that it's been closed down in the next 2014 elections, and it's been finalised and it's become a whole city, and there's a large part of them in the next semester, and there's a design, and there's a draft, and there's a wholeness of their zoning movements in that framework, and there's a position of opinion from the city to be a gramer. There's also a permit to sell real estate, and they can carry on all other activities. There is no change, no law, no decision, no change; I want to express it specifically. What Mr. Serindağ said about the theaters is that as a member of the government, as far as I know, it's a step forward for our theatres, our theatres, our theatres to serve more, our theatres to grow. Otherwise, it is not intended for our artists to fail in any way. More, more freely, and from now on, we will continue to help the theatre and the theatre. Mr. Sakine Öz Hanım, it's about our Congresswoman's vocational rooms... and we, according to the institutional code of their vocational rooms, are, of course, semi-official organizations, public organizations, we respect them, professional organisations. And we're glad they're telling us what's wrong with us, and we're happy with the warnings they're giving us. And from now on, we will continue to be with them in whatever way necessary for them to be able to serve better. As for the ministries of Mr. Durmaz, I have no kinship with Mr. Serdar Çukan. He's a law school graduate, and he has the criteria for appointing. I'll buy it. Mr. Canalioğlu has expressed...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0077par0161	He doesn't have ten years of banking experience.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0076par0162	No, whatever the terms of the Banking Act...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0077par0163	▪ He says it's business.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0076par0164	The law says that the law is in law.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0077par0165	Business... it's not about running a lawyer.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0078par0166	It says to have at least ten years of professional experience in banking or operating.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0076par0167	I have the law, I have the Law of the Bank of Provinces, I can present it to you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0077par0168	There is, there is.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0078par0169	I'm reading from the law, Minister.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0076par0170	Let me point out that the Bank of Province is subject to the Law of Trade and the Law of Banks in matters not written in the law. In matters written in his own law, he is subject to his own law, which I can express in particular. The Bank of Provinces...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0078par0172	The Banking Act is what I'm talking about.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0076par0173	You can see, there's nothing out of the ordinary there. I can also present you with written information.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0078par0174	I'm reading the Banking Act here. Does it fit here or not? I'd appreciate it if you'd tell me that.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0076par0175	The assignments are already being made, sir, by an opinion from the BDDK. No appointment from the BDK can be made to the Bank of Provinces without an opinion. It's being examined there, followed by the law.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0079par0176	But an opinion that's not legal can't be corrected. If it's legal...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0076par0177	If it's inappropriate, we'll fix it.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0080par0178	We'd appreciate it if you could fill us in on that, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0079par0179	You'd better give me some information on that, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0076par0180	Mr. Canalioğlu's work on the rights of residences in Tripoli is currently under way, and I believe there's been a setback in the housing permit of the buildings. After that setback, the dwellings there will be delivered to the rightful owners and the keys will be given to them. I don't know exactly how the findings of the landslide work are at Fethiyeye. But these damage assessments are being made by fully independent engineers. Now you've given us a warning: there's also food in the region, and there's a broader investigation of the area, and there's a broader study of the area, and there's no attitude to it, and I'm going to give you information by looking at it through meeting with the AFAD again. With all due respect.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0081par0183	One minute. Mr. Turkkan, please.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0082par0185	Mr. Secretary, do you think there are any legal and ground science grounds for the failure to implement any more than four floors of construction in the Alikahya and Akarca region of the province of Kopeli by the Ministry of Public Works and Housing Office of Disaster Affairs? Because it's a serious earthquake zone. Wouldn't it endanger the lives of the citizens to change this decision and present 17-story buildings to the neighborhood? One question, Mr. Minister of Culture, is that while he's here, I'd like to inform him that the tourist who arrived at Antalya and Mughla in the first quarter of the year has declined by 15 per cent and 40 per cent, respectively. The number of tourists from Russia has been very low. Those who come from Russia to Antalya are known to have a 33% decline and 93 per cent decline in those who come to Mugla. Therefore, the possible impacts of AKP's Syrian policy on tourism were on the agenda of tour operators and hotels at the tourism fairs in Germany and Russia last month.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0081par0188	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you an extension in a minute, so if you could just answer it in a minute...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0083par0189	Thank you very much. The question asked by Mr. Turkkan is: Of course there can be no more than four floors in the Big One. I don't know that there is a general rule. Of course, after the 1999 Lake-Marmara and Düzce quakes, we changed the Earthquake Rule and re-examined the construction requirements. According to this, multi-story buildings can be built in other areas, as in California, today. There is no such thing as a high-level risk of an earthquake building being too risky. This would be appropriate if you would do so according to your status, your concrete, and the Earthquake Rule.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0084par0191	Mr. Secretary, there are no regulations.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0083par0192	But let me examine this place in private, if the buildings in Bigeli have been built more than four floors in the zoning plan or in its terms, it's a crime. In that respect, I'll look into it and give you information. Thank you again. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0085par0195	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0086par0196	Mr. President, our Congressman has issued a statement regarding an appointment. He asked if these board members had the proper qualifications for the Banking Law. If Mr. Secretary answers in writing later, because it happened. We'd appreciate it if he'd answer in writing, sir, if it's legal or not.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0083par0197	I'll answer it if you want.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0086par0198	No, no, it's okay.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0087par0199	No, now the answer is... so we're out of time. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are four motions in Article 19/a. I'm going to read them in order, I'm going to process them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 1st joke (a) of the 19th Article of the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster Risks, number 180, which is discussed, shall be replaced in the following way. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mehmet Has arrived İsmail Güneşan Hakan Çağoğlu İsmail Aydın The first joke (e) of Article 2 (e), (f) and (g) bents of Article 2 are defined in the following way, (h) in the following four months (h) in the form of the ibarate (e.g., i.g., i.g., i.e.), and the following ben number (n) was added to the joke (n) after me. e) Do or do any study, plan, project, cost accounts and production work on matters that are part of the ministry's mandate. F) By creating the structure control system, which is dated 29/6/2001 and has been assigned to the Ministry on Building Control No. 4708, and to conduct and monitor the activities of the structures in accordance with life and property safety and legislation and technique, and to ask for the removal of the detected discrepancy and disadvantages; to ensure and ensure that the structures improve energy efficiency arrangements, to manage and process the control and appropriate assessment of building materials; to manage and monitor them. ğ) To determine the proper and essentials for improvements, renovations, renovations and transformations in urban and rural spaces, including areas that have been removed from the forest and outlandage due to the decay of coastal areas and facilities and facilities; to implement, by the ministry set financial and trade centers, fair and exhibition sites, entertainment centers, entertainment centers, cities' brand value, and all kinds of special projects to contribute to the development of the city; to approve, map, plan, design, design and construction projects; to allow the establishment of property and construction in areas set up by the city; and to make the plans for the establishment of the construction of the city by which its main accessories; and to ensure that its specific areas of the city are all kinds of property, in order to implementing and to make its specific areas of property, according to each type, map, map, map, plan, plan, planning, design and by design and by design, by design, by design, by design, by the way of construction, and by the establishment of construction, by the establishment of constructions, and use of construction, and by the establishments of construction, and use of construction, by the establishments of construction of construction, by the city, and by the city. N) The Celebration of the 100th Year of the Birth of Ataturk (23/9/1980) and the Establishment of the Ataturk Cultural Centre of the Ataturk (Public Culture Center), which has been set up by Article 3 of the Law, to improve, improve, renew and promote the area of Ataturk Culture, and to ensure that other tasks and procedures are carried out for the ministry of Culture and Tourism, as well as for the view of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, on all types and sizes, maps, plans, planning, planning, planning, planning, doing, publicisation and licensing. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the joke (n) of Article 19 of the Law Charter on the Transformation of Areas Under Disasters in 180 rows. Sadir Durmaz Ali Torlak Bilim Light Mesut Dedeoğlu Mehmet Günal Lütfü Türkkan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 19 of the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under the 180 Rows of Disaster Risk. We offer and propose that the first joke (a) of the clause (n) be removed from the text of matter. Prof. Dr. Haluk Eyidoğan Yıdiray Sapan İhsan Kalkavan Ali Sarıbaş Doğan Dawn Müslim Sarı Now, I'm going to read the motion, and I'm going to process it. It's the second draft of the 180 rows of the law. Chapter 19. We propose and propose that the terms of this clause be removed from the bill. Sebahat Tuncel Demir Çelik Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0088par0238	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0087par0239	Mr. Steel, please.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0089par0240	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, on behalf of myself and my party, I salute you with respect and love. It was me (a) of the 19th article of the law in question, and therefore I am on the stand to express my thoughts on (g) and (n) ben. Mr. President, we have stated that the high-profile lawmakers have suggested that areas at risk of disaster should be subject to urban transformation, that many opposition parties at times have been on the agenda of our parliament for several months. An expression called "Risk field" can be removed from the scientific data of today, and can be converted into living spaces if it is subjected to a certain standardization. In that respect, all areas that pose a risk of earthquake or disaster, we share concerns that if they are subject to relevant regulations and the fact that they will be transformed into living spaces, they should be used to this purpose, while the area of the city and the city period should be replaced, being transformed, that it will not mean anything more than serving a number of capital and interest groups. In this regard, we have a duty to first edit his relationship with the current legal arrangement, with all sorts of changes in this regard, with social needs, and to resolve the contradictions in that sense. In important areas such as trade and finance centers, fair and exhibition sites or city entrances, the city, that city, when it was local executives, handing the business over to the central government, as well as the central government's ministry of environmental and urbanism, making this initiative, making this decision, first and foremost, to be able to make this decision, by the Immanagement Act No. 3194, by the City Code 5393. When City Law number 5393 comes out in 2005, this law, which is expected to make amends for problems that have been saved in the past years, will be an important step in this sense, is now defused by the initiative of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism to the TOKI. It's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough. Our concern is that the effort to address the existing problem will be removed from the need of society by becoming an independent part of good will. Therefore, these and similar laws, without participation, regardless of the opinions, suggestions and criticisms of professional rooms, are far from social needs, which directly deal with this problem, the social dynamics, their harms, the problems of this transformation, and the problems of this transformation, will be limited to the savings of the central government, which will not be compatible with the present-day democracy, therefore the state of law, in that area, and the problem of the citizens living in the region. And in that sense, it won't be democratic, it won't be human. Therefore, I feel that those who do not take legal power from the community will have no function but to be a state of law, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0090par0247	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same. I'm going to read these motions, and I'm going to process them together, and I'm going to promise them separately at the request of the motion holders. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 19 of the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under the 180 Rows of Disaster Risk. We offer and propose that the first joke (a) of the clause (n) be removed from the text of matter. Haluk Eyidoğan (Istanbul) and his friends Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the 19th article (a) of the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster Risks of 180 rows. Sadir Durmaz (Yozgat) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motions? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0091par0260	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0090par0261	Mr. Dawn, come in.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0092par0263	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 19th Amendment of the Bill of Law (a) about the Transformation of the Areas Under Disasters. Precious lawmakers have been authorized by the bill to collect, buy, sell, sell, move property rights, build, build, build, design the city's shares in the implementation of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism -- the reserve structures, risky structures, and places of residences -- with the operation of projects, land and land regulation. This is the point that causes the real problem. The presidency of Prime Ministerial Disaster and Emergency Management is an institution founded to carry out such work. With this arrangement, it is also necessary to disable existing institutions such as these to make the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism the sole authority in this area, including the units mentioned in Article 19. Under the bill, the authority of the local authorities is fully transferred to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. This transfer of authority violates the European Union Convention. We can't accept international contracts under which our government has signed and sided with by enforcing internal law laws. Because the 90th article of our Constitution commands that international contracts that we side with are above internal law. In this context, I would like to bring to your attention the international contracts referred to by Culture and Nature Preservation Act 2863, as well as by the Law on Protection of Natural Beings, which is referred to by Turkey: the European Convention on Culture, 1957; Protection of Cultural Property, The Hague, 1965; the Council of International Monuments and SİSCE Council on the National Committee of Turkey, 1974; the Amsterdam Declaration of Amsterdam, 1975; the Convention on Protection of World Cultural and Natural Miramour, Paris, 1972; the Protection of European Architecture of Architecture, 1989; the Protection of the European Architecture of Architecture, 1999; and the Life of the National Committee of Europe, 1999; and the National Committee of Life of Europe; the National Committee of Europe, 1994; Ram, 1994; and the Treaty of World Culture and Natural Mira, 1994, 1994, 1994. In other jokes of Article 19, the Ataturk Cultural Centre established by the Law on the Celebration of the 100th Year of the Birth of Ataturk, and the Establishment of Ataturk Cultural Centre for the Birth of the 23/09/1980 and 2302 is also concerned with improving, beautifying, renovating, and providing the view of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, including all kinds of etuks, maps, plans, plans, planning, planning, planning, planning, building projects in this area, and other operations of publicisation and licensing. Within the area of the Ankara ECM, which is mentioned in this Bentte, the First Assembly building, the State Railways service building and the cer workshops, the Presidential Symphony Orchestra, the Youth Park, the former Hippodrome area and so on, architectural monuments from the early years of the republic are registered as a cultural presence and are still protected by the state. It is the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, by law, the authority for all construction and physical intervention related to the structures and its environment. In this regard, provisions regarding the conditions of Law 2863 must be kept secret, so the authority used by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism must remain hidden, or the law must be withdrawn. If it is not intended to cause the loss of thousands of years of historical heritage that cannot be undone, this law must and must be withdrawn. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0093par0271	Mr. Vural, do you want to read the motive or do you want to talk about it? Mr. Vural, do you want me to read the reason for the motion, or is someone going to talk?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0094par0272	Mr. Lütfü...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0093par0273	Mr. Turkkan, please come in.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0095par0275	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the law on the transformation of areas that are at risk of disaster number 180. Before that, however, while the two ministers of the government are here, I would like to ask them a question: Mardin MP Abdurrahim Akdağ, one of the five members of the Justice and Development Party who worked in the region regarding the solution to the Kurdish problem, may receive a general pardon in his words reflected in the press. This is Mr. Abdurrahim Akdağ's own opinion, is your government working on this? If so, I would like you to enlighten both the House and the people. During the Justice and Development Party period in Turkey, very important decisions were always made behind the scenes, and they were suddenly implemented. I would like to warn you that a very important decision to occupy this country's agenda must be made to explain it to the General Assembly in Parliament. I don't know how you can manipulate the justice mechanism in the Republic of Turkey so easily, but a significant part of the terrorists who are being pardoned here will be charged with manslaughter, except for organization membership. I don't know how you'll ever forgive them. This amnesty will be celebrated in general. With that general pardon, we'd like to know who else you'd like to forgive. If you're prepared for such a law, if you have such a work, we want to know who you're going to involve. I, meanwhile, have read statements by Mr. Vice President of Justice and Development Party, Omar Çelik, in a statement published to the press last week that the Justice and Development Party has no such agendas for lawmakers in the Central Board of Directors. Is it the decision of the Central Governing Body of the Justice and Development Party to work on the pardon of these MPs? I want to find out if it's in the Central Governing Body's workspace. Second, he passed it to the law, Mr. Omar Steel. Do you really trust this law that much? If you trust me, why did you bring Hakan Fidan to this place in the middle of the night in a hurry to get him out of court? You should have let the law judge Hakan Fidan. I also stated in my speech that day that I was not on his side, that Turkey's Undersecretary of MIT should not be called in and questioned by a prosecutor, and this shouldn't be so cheap. That's part of it, but on the other hand, if you're making a law just to get someone out of law enforcement, that means you don't trust the law, handing over the people's deputies to the law that you don't trust, that's the definition of your hypocrisy. (Applause from MHP rows) Stop oppressing the trustees of this nation. You've made another persecution a prisoner of the president of the Fenerbahce Club. Let's face it, everyone knows your government had something to do with this.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0096par0279	No.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0095par0280	Yes, he's in St. Yıldırım's prison by the decision of your government. If he's rigged the other fixers, the mayor of the Metropolitan Mayor Göksel Silverdağ, Sadri Sener, all the other club presidents with the name on them, or get him out of here. There's no end to persecution, you're going to be miserable, you're coming to an end.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0096par0281	You're showing off!
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0097par0282	You're showing off!
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0095par0283	I'm not showing off, and if I show up, I'll show you how it's done, very clear!
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0098par0285	Mr. Turkkan, please...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0095par0286	You didn't see the show, so don't bully me there, I'm here, if you want me to do a show, come on, let's do a show together, let's all see what the show's like.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0099par0287	You're showing off!
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0095par0288	You need us tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, we'll try to save you in the courtrooms, we'll pity your children, we'll come for you, I swear to you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0099par0289	Don't be ridiculous! You're full of shit!
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0095par0290	I have some very dear friends among you, and I feel sorry for you. With the economic crisis coming in from September, the political crisis will take you to the gates of the court very quickly, prepare for it, prepare your defense for it, hire good lawyers, learn to trust this law that you don't trust. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0100par0293	I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are rejected. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 1st joke (a) of the 19th Article of the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster Risks, number 180, which is discussed, shall be replaced in the following way. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends The first joke (e) of Article 2 (e), (f) and (g) bents of Article 2 are defined in the following way, (h) in the following four months (h) in the form of the ibarate (e.g., i.g., i.g., i.e.), and the following ben number (n) was added to the joke (n) after me. e) Do or do any study, plan, project, cost accounts and production work on matters that are part of the ministry's mandate. F) By creating the structure control system, which is dated 29/6/2001 and has been assigned to the Ministry on Building Control No. 4708, and to conduct and monitor the activities of the structures in accordance with life and property safety and legislation and technique, and to ask for the removal of the detected discrepancy and disadvantages; to ensure and ensure that the structures improve energy efficiency arrangements, to manage and process the control and appropriate assessment of building materials; to manage and monitor them. ğ) To determine the proper and essentials for improvements, renovations, renovations and transformations in urban and rural spaces, including areas that have been removed from the forest and outlandage due to the decay of coastal areas and facilities and facilities; to implement, by the ministry set financial and trade centers, fair and exhibition sites, entertainment centers, entertainment centers, cities' brand value, and all kinds of special projects to contribute to the development of the city; to approve, map, plan, design, design and construction projects; to allow the establishment of property and construction in areas set up by the city; and to make the plans for the establishment of the construction of the city by which its main accessories; and to ensure that its specific areas of the city are all kinds of property, in order to implementing and to make its specific areas of property, according to each type, map, map, map, plan, plan, planning, design and by design and by design, by design, by design, by design, by the way of construction, and by the establishment of construction, by the establishment of constructions, and use of construction, and by the establishments of construction, and use of construction, by the establishments of construction of construction, by the city, and by the city. N) The Celebration of the 100th Year of the Birth of Ataturk (23/9/1980) and the Establishment of the Ataturk Cultural Centre of the Ataturk (Public Culture Center), which has been set up by Article 3 of the Law, to improve, improve, renew and promote the area of Ataturk Culture, and to ensure that other tasks and procedures are carried out for the ministry of Culture and Tourism, as well as for the view of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, on all types and sizes, maps, plans, planning, planning, planning, planning, doing, publicisation and licensing.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0101par0303	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0100par0304	Okay, I'll just call the number.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0102par0305	Mr. President, now, this is a mixed motion because the Ataturk Cultural Center, frankly, has the authority of the National Committee. Without the National Committee's opinion on this issue, it is also against the spirit of the law to do so directly only by receiving the view of the Ministry of Culture. So it's an approach that takes out the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute when there's no law clause in this centre that can be proposed and there's no plurality. At that time, the national committee would not have carried out the law's mandate regarding the facilities to mark the 100th year of Ataturk. So the change in the last joke of this motion, I think it's a matter of some consideration. We just did something with Nurettin Bey, and there was no particular substance. The National Committee must be consulted on this matter.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit02spe0100par0306	Shall we do this? I'll take a ten-minute break, I'll invite you in the back, and you two can work it out. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit03spe0100par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 107th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 180. Commission? Here. Government? Here. In Article 19/a, Giresun MP Mr. Nurettin Canikli and his friends' motion was suspended. Does the commission agree with the motion? We're leaving it to appreciation, sir. Mr. Secretary, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit03spe0103par0009	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit03spe0104par0010	Motive...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit03spe0100par0011	I'm reading the reason: The amendments are being made to the duties of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism No. 644, and to the duties of some units listed in the State of the Law decree on the Agency and its duties. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 19/ίb: I'll have them read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 180 Orders Under the Disaster Risks be replaced in the form of the 19th Amendment (b) joke of the Law Bill on the Transformation of the Underlying Areas. Emre Bridged Haluk Eyidoğan Sakine Öz Doğan Şafak Mahmut Tanal İdris Yıldız I'll read and process the current motion: To the presidency of TBM, It's the 19th edition of the 180 Orders Numbered Legislature. We propose that the clause (b) be removed from the Bill text. Sadir doesn't stop, D. Ali Torlak Mehmet Erdoğan Alim Iklut Bkent Belen Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Is the commission in? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit03spe0105par0035	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit03spe0100par0036	Mr. Vural, who will speak? You want me to read the motive?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit03spe0106par0037	Motive...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit03spe0100par0038	I'm reading the reason: This arrangement aims to prevent some problems that may arise in practice by maintaining the current structure. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 180 Orders Under the Disaster Risks be replaced in the form of the 19th Amendment (b) joke of the Law Bill on the Transformation of the Underlying Areas. Emre Bridgelı (Tekırdağ) and his friends Is the commission in? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit03spe0107par0049	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit03spe0100par0050	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit03spe0108par0051	Mr. Bulent Tezcan.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit03spe0100par0052	Mr. Tezcan, please.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit03spe0109par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're discussing a bill of law on organizing disaster-threatening areas. According to one statement, with this bill, the amount of $200 billion is being arranged, according to another statement, a $500 billion space is being organised... Dear friends, the total amount of regulation in areas at risk of disaster in Turkey is as serious as $500 billion. Now, when we look at the bill, one of the most important administrative institutions in the bill is municipalities. One of the most important agencies we've authorized is the mayors, so they're the mayors. Congressmans, look, let's take a look at how the mayors of the city are going to be in charge of such a large arrangement, which is particularly important here. One: Do the mayors that we've given these powers, the mayors that we're giving them, have enough staff to use these powers and to make arrangements in this law? Second, do they have a comfortable, safe working environment to do these things? We all know that there has been a serious terrorism of central administration on the municipalities recently. The mayors, elected leaders of their districts, elected political leaders, elected public leaders and, one morning, police forces are at the door of these mayors, which are likely to be called to testify by phone, and they are detained one day before the city's mayors and then up to four days after that, based on the authority vested by the Law on Criminal Oppositions. Dear friends, members of the Justice and Development Party, you have placed something in municipal services during your time of power: you have established a system of public service, not by the hands of public employees, but by building staff to municipalities, by building direct rights, by receiving services. Look, the files our mayors have investigated, the files they've been detained, the files they've been tried for, all because of these tenders. Whether or not he mixes the tender with irregularity, the mayors stay up all morning in police holdings for the slightest claim. It's a shame, isn't it? Aren't those our mayors? It doesn't matter which political party it's from, but it's obviously being actively run over by opposition mayors and Republican People's Party mayors, especially this system, the ignominy campaign. Just last week, Thursday, I had to go to Aydın. Six mayors, three on duty, three former mayors were taken into custody at seven o'clock in the morning; four days, last Monday morning at 4:30 p.m., they were released because of a conscientious judge. Bozdoğan Mayor, Kuyucak Mayor, Köşk Mayor, former Mayor of Köşk, former Mayor of Umurlu, former Mayor of Sultanhisar. Dear friends, this is how you publicly discredit the mayors of a $500 billion investment, the mayors of a planning, and then hang this sword of justice like the sword of Damocles, and then pass this law. Get your hands off the mayors, give the mayors a safe, peaceful working environment so that the people of that area can get comfortable service. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit03spe0110par0062	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 19/ίc) that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement specified in the 19th article (c) of the Law Charter on the Transformation of the 180 Lined Areas Under the Disaster Risks be changed to the one specified in the context of the declaration. Sakine Öz Haluk Eyidoğan Attila Kart İdris Yıldız Haydar Akar Tanju Özcan Is the commission in? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit03spe0111par0077	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit03spe0110par0078	Mr. Tanju Özcan, Mr. Bolu MP, come in.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit03spe0112par0080	Mr. President, we're discussing a legal arrangement regarding high-value lawmakers, areas at risk of disaster. And I'd like to address a few issues, if I may, as a member of the Bolu (Bou) MP, who faced two natural disasters about 13 years ago under this legal arrangement. In particular, 48 per cent of the province of Bolu was damaged during the earthquake on November 12, 99, and it is still a risk involving Bolu. According to experts. Today, as a matter of fact, we should be pleased that this law is on the agenda of Congress, but I'm really curious whether your intention is to reduce the risk of disaster areas when you bring it in, or if there is the idea of enriching its followers under such a well-intentioned bill again. We just received a statement from our friend, Mr. Bulent Tezcan. Guys, if this law is fully enforced, it's going to be an estimated $500 billion runt. It really raises questions in the public and in our minds as to who, how, how to distribute it, whether or not to attract it. Guys, if he needs a legal arrangement on this, which I think he does, I think we should start by providing for the needs of technical staff of local governments, municipalities, and county private administrations, new staff. In fact, most of you, I don't know, you see a lot of municipalities in the country, because of the technical shortage of men, they can't even do the inspections they need to do, they can't do the work and they can't plan. If you're sincere about this, we should also focus on these technical staffs as well. In addition, we find that Law 7269 and some of the provisions of this law are fundamentally conflicted. I also think it's a great benefit to have a special study to resolve these contradictions. Dear MPs, of course, I must share with you that there are natural disasters as well as local disasters. Unfortunately, local governments are the source of these local disasters. I just told you, I'm a member of Bolu Province. Between Ankara and Istanbul, there are two entrances on the highway, Bolu East and Bolu West. If you don't believe what I'm saying, if you don't believe what I'm about to say, go to Istanbul, or when I'm coming back from Istanbul, take a look at the province of Bolu, and you'll see what a local disaster is. Guys, right now, in the center of my province, there's no way you're going to be able to drive 50 yards across the city of Bolu. Really, Bolu is not at risk of disaster, he's going through a total disaster. The roads have turned into a potato field. There's a mayor from your party in Bolu. This mayor has become unable to serve Bolu. He is tied up, has no money, has been red-lined by the Bank of Provinces. I'm asking the AKP's officials and the ministers here: please, send money to the mayor of Bolu and as soon as possible. Otherwise, the people of Bolu will really continue to experience this disaster. Not enough, of course, but I'll tell you again about my territory: we have a Göynuk district. There will be an event held for His Majesty Aksemsettin on 27th of this month. I believe the AKP will participate in this event at the minister's level. But our Göynuk district has no way. I wonder, where will the minister come from, and how will he come? I suggest he come to Gönuk in a helicopter. There used to be a narrow road between Gönük and Bolu today, unfortunately, there was no road. I don't know if anyone's been to Zonguldak lately. There's our Menguldak district on the road. We're in a real disaster situation here, I'm not exaggerating. You'll have to rest for three days after a few miles here. Guys, we were out of the country last week or the week before that. The city of Hannover has footage after World War II. Believe me, the images of the city of Hannover after World War II are better than those of the city of Bolu today. So, speaking of which, I'd like to bring this up in private. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit03spe0113par0093	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit03spe0114par0094	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0114par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 107th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Tanju Özcan and his friends' amendment motion was not enough to vote on Article 19/c of Law Bill 180. Now, I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is enough of a decision, the motion is not accepted. We will continue the talks of Bill 180. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Now, I submit to your votes, Article 19/c. Those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 19/5 that I'm going to read and process: Now, I'm going to read the motion, and I'm going to process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 19th article (c) of the Law Bill on the Transformation of the 180-Defense Risk Areas be removed from the text of the article. Mehmet Şeker Haydar Akar Mahmut Tanal Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Veli Ağbaba İlhan Demiröz Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0115par0019	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0116par0020	Mr. Ilhan Demiröz will speak.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0114par0021	Mr. Ilhan Demiröz is a member of the Fellowship.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0117par0023	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding the amendment of the 19th Amendment to the Law Bill on the Transformation of Disaster Risked Areas. I salute you and our fellow citizens who are watching us on the screen with respect and love. Change is just a sentence. I'd like to carry out the duties assigned to the Ministry of Building Affairs, but I'd also like to point out that there is a decree under the law. Dear lawmakers, we are faced with a bill that defies the freedoms of our citizens, including housing, possession, rights-seeking, eliminating the powers of local governments who have led the election, authorizing the Ministry of Environment and Urbanisation and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and the TOKI to seize, historical entity, military space, mera, non-discrimination, and dismantling the building they want. Precious lawmakers will seize and sell buildings, facilities, Ministry and TOKI, which are used for education, health, social and cultural activities, which are reserved for public services through this bill. TOKI won't take into account the modern designs of local and regional civil architecture in these repossessions, and its legal zoning powers handed over to TOKI will pave the way for development law, agriculture, mera, forest, history, culture-free construction, which does not respect the principles of planning and urbanism that are incompatible with the city and the environment. If you call it an example, it's in every county, but I immediately think of the Tosa TOKI Doğanbey Urban Transformation and Community Housing. Among the words of the Prime Minister, the strange houses and freaky dwellings have been stabbed in the heart like a dagger. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to share with you an observation in my provinces. TOKI dwellings are built in high jeans of the provinces and counties, where they will look down on the city centre. Is this style of architecture a prediction of the growing authority of this law? Precious lawmakers will want to build new 2/B sites from the 2/B estates, create new 2/B/B sites in the mera area, make new AVMs that will like the school space, build hotels that will like the hospital, and when the municipal authorities are eliminated, the TOİ or Ministry will decide from Ankara, the identity of the districts and the districts will be eliminated. For what? For Rant's sake. How's that? It'll be by law. Of course, one of the drawbacks of this bill is that, as mentioned by our friends, the Public Contraction Law number 4743 should be taken under Article 21/B, and it should be negotiated, not by tender. One of the main drawbacks of the bill is to be allowed to work with the municipalities within the Metropolitan municipality to do whatever they wish and not work with the municipalities within the city limits of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanisation. You remember, half of the source the County Bank had already transferred to the municipality had gone to AKP-based municipalities. The process will now continue to be run by ruling municipalities and opposition municipalities. With this bill, a new mechanism is being created to discredit opposition municipalities in public view. Dear lawmakers, we are all aware that in this sense, the emergency need for urban transformation is to make buildings in Turkey resistant to earthquakes, but not with this bill. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0118par0033	Thank you, Mr. Irony. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 19/d, and I'm having it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 19 (d) be removed from the text of substance (d) of the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster Risks of 180. Haluk Eyidoğan Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Haydar Akar Is the commission in? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0119par0046	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0118par0047	Mr. Mahmut Tanal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0120par0050	Thank you, Mayor. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Of course, as this bill was being drafted, a copy of the Japanese International Agency had previously been copied due to Japan's constant exposure to earthquakes. But the downside here is that it's been taken in ways that can make a profit, in ways that are good, only from a central plan that's been taken. However, really, we wanted to do the same here, just as it was done in Japan, when the citizen sued the administration court. The current bill cannot be decided to stop the execution. There is a clear, clear verdict in its form. When we look at the 125th article of our Constitution, if there is a state of emergency in the country, if there are two conditions for martial law in the country, it cannot be decided to stop operating separately. I mean, is there a martial law in our country right now, is there a state of emergency that can't be decided to stop the execution, about these events, about the use of rights born of this law? The definition of this is from the opponent: because political power has declared invisible martial law in the country, it has declared an invisible state of emergency. The decision cannot be made to stop the execution due to disputes born of this law. The sentence has been issued in the form of a decree. When the esteemed MPs speak of corruption on the stand, Mr. Minister, our fellow AKP MPs say: "Sister, where do you get this from?" Now, I asked Mr. Finance Minister yesterday, I brought up the issue of the issues with the Chief Justice of the State, the Supreme Court, the President of the Constitutional Court. Dear friends, one of the BMWs is a monthly rent fee of 7,600 euros, the Prime Ministerial Executive Affairs Chairman who provided this information. The monthly rent is 7,600 euros, not $7,600, dear friends. Well, when I asked him how many years he had rented, the second answer was, again, the Prime Minister's Administration and the President of Financial Affairs said they were renting for three years. Three years -- 7,600 euros a month -- makes thirty-six months, valued lawmakers. When we multiply 36 months by 7,600 euros, each car costs 273,600 euros for three years. In the same way, if we buy this vehicle from Borusan, how much can we buy it for? We can also buy it for 276,000 euros. I mean, I give you the document on how public revenues are squandered, how they're being pursued, how they're being embezzled by corruption. This is the document of Borusasan, and this is the document I was given, dear friends. That's one. Secondly, I'm on my way to the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor's case as the province we're in right now. Ankara Metropolitan Municipality gives a check dated May 30, 2012. This date, dated May 30, 2012, still hasn't come, but what does it pay for? He instructs the bank on 18 January 2012, instructs and pays the Foundation Bank. Our friends may say: "Yahu brother, where are you saying this?" I give you the check number, I give you the bank's branch: The bank has been paid in a large amount of money from the account number 260001500050072652756. Why was this early payment paid? Again, earlier payments were made to supporters of Belbeton Asş, a subsidiary of Ankara Metropolitan Municipality. It's not called corruption, it's another form of corruption, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0121par0057	Won't it be paid when the check is submitted, Mr. Tanal?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0120par0058	My dear colleague, when you're a lawyer, don't you get paid when the check is signed? Your question, your lack of legal information, I'm sorry, I'll tell you that, because two months ago in this Parliament, you put the check on a due date, you said you can't be paid before the check is made.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0121par0060	It's been declared...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0120par0061	If you don't know anything about that law, I'm asking you to reconsider. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0122par0063	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 19/e. I'm having it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of the Article 19 (e) of the Law Charter on the Transformation of the 180 Lined Areas Under the Disaster Risk is changed to the subsidiary of the Article 19 (e). Haluk Eyidoğan Ali Serindağ Mahmut Tanal Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Bkent Tezcan Is the commission in? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0123par0076	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0122par0077	Who's gonna talk? Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0124par0079	Mr. President, lawmakers, I've made a commitment to give you my opinion on bill number 180, but first I'd like to discuss some issues on the agenda. We've got some serious issues with the arrested MPs, you guys, and you all know it. The arrested MPs themselves, their children, their wives, their relatives, their friends, were hopeful. The President and Bulent Arinc must remain free. He said, "They are hopeful." In April, Mr. Cemil Cicek called on political parties to solve the problem. He said, "They are hopeful." Mr. Cemil Cicek said on April 26th, there was a compromise on the legal ground to resolve the problem, and they were hopeful. And? The AKP refused. The result of all this is spiritual torture for arrested MPs and relatives, my friends. Torture isn't always physical. Can you tell this to the younger daughter of Mustafa Balbay, Rain and his younger son Deniz? I'd like to leave the pain of these children to your consciences, but I'd like to ask you if you feel any pain about it in your conscience. There's a common opinion about arrested MPs, you guys, you know what? The constitutional process is now said to be a matter of negotiation, where arrested lawmakers will be used as hostages by the AKP. Prisoner, the freedoms of the hostage MPs cannot be negotiated. I leave all this progress to the conscience of the public, not you. Mr. President, Congressmans, three days later, May 19th is the day of our national liberation. All the lands of this land were occupied, their fortresses were seized, and their army scattered, while the people were poor in Anatolia, and Mustafa Kemal was born as a sun on May 19, 1919. Under the leadership of Mustafa Kemal, our poor people in Anatolia, they won a war called impossible. The invaders were expelled from our land and the Republic of Turkey was founded. This is the day, given to youth by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, which has been celebrated as Youth and Sports Day for many years, while this festival and other national festivals and national awareness have been tried by the AKP Power to destroy and forget. The idea of this is the desire to forget and destroy the Ataturk revolutions and the principles of the republic. The invitations that have been issued to us under the new regulations show that the ceremonies are only performed by the youth and sports county department, which are only wreathed at these ceremonies, friends, other than that, there is no celebration, there is no ceremony. Among these programs, there are no symposiums, as Mr. Suat Kılıç said. It is said to be celebrated in the squares, in schools, and everywhere, but this way there is no celebration of the ceremony that comes to us. On May 15, 1919, the AKP wants to remove all holiday ceremonies, as Hasan Tahsin Nahin, who fired the first bullet at the Greek soldiers who occupied Izmir (Izmir) and was killed there, but for the time being, it seems to be celebrating by performing a low-level ceremony so as not to attract the public's reaction. The AKP will replace our national holidays with the glorious anniversary of the birth and death of the sultans, as it was last year. But the AKP is wrong, dear friends. These people will never give up on the principles of Ataturk, or secular, the modern Republic of Turkey. On 19 May, in Samsun, Istanbul, in all the provinces of Turkey, young people and people will celebrate it. Mr. President, Congressmans, I have been promised to discuss the 19th article of the bill we're discussing. Under this bill, regulations for the duties of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism -- number 644 -- are being made. After the decree was issued in the sixth month, on August 8, 2011, on August 23, 2011, on October 11, 2011, on November 3, 2011, the decree was changed. That's the fifth change, fellas. Of course, that's the lack of the law when it's issued in such a way that you don't smuggle it into the House, without arguing, without taking it out like that. The AKP is so overwhelmed with power intoxication that no rule, no law, no Constitutional AKP ruling. I did it, and by reason, the majority is now implementing its dictatorship in this country. Mr. President, members of the law...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0125par0089	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0124par0090	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0125par0092	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 20; I read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the draft of Article 20 of the Law Charter on the Transformation of the Areas Under the 180 Numbered Disaster Risks, as discussed, be removed from the text of the Bill. Haluk Eyidoğan Ali Serindağ Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ali Sarıbaş R. Kerim Özkan Is the commission in? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0126par0104	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0127par0105	Mr. President, I have a request, Mr. President. We've just discussed the 19th article in many ways. Please, as a commission, bring in those whom you have discussed in this matter as a separate clause, so that we can plan accordingly. So one thing comes from the commissions -- in this regard -- is that we have to discuss a lot of things. In that respect, I urge you to pay attention to this matter as a commission.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0125par0106	Okay. Mr. Eyeborn, please.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0128par0108	Mr. President, lawmakers, there's been a lot of talk about the transmutation law in these disaster-threatening areas. From now on, this law is probably going to tell you something more, more, about this, after we've passed here. So I'm not going to say much about the details of the law, but before this law comes out, I'm going to talk about an application with the existing legislation. What is this app? What you're all probably hearing is a waterkule transformation, renovation, rehabilitation. Sulukule is a site of a Roman group located in the 11th century at the bottom of the Edirnekapi walls of the historic peninsula. It is an important place in Istanbul's culture, which has a historical tradition of entertainment. At one time, the population was 5,500, and according to a study by the Sulukule Platform, 76 percent of the residents were born in Sulukule. On the basis of Law 5366 in 2005 and the first time they heard about the existence of the Urban Renewal Project, which began with the slogan "human" in 2005, at the invitation of the Fatih Municipality on 28 June 2006, they made a press release, saying: "We, with this project, will have to come out of the places where we have lived for centuries. If the municipality really wants to protect the Sulukule as a historical place, let us provide engineering and architecture with the means to repair, repair, and repair our homes. They prepared their own alternative social projects with volunteers from Roma, civil society and universities, and presented them to Mr. Erdoğan Bayraktar. They described small houses, like 60 to 70 square meters. TOKI laughed and said, "No, we'll do better." And today, they've done it and they're about to finish it.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0129par0111	Let's see it.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0128par0112	The project was sued for cancellation, but the destruction was repeatedly said to have been an open violation of the law, even though the annulment was repeated. Until 2009, a total of three hundred houses were destroyed, except for a few registered homes, which began in 2007. On 4 December 2007, the lottery drawing of the Fatih Municipality determined the TOKI homes that it would buy from 434 tenants 40km away from Sulukule. The tenants were given the right to buy 100 months of their dwellings in Gaziosmanpaşa Tasoluk. And the tenants, who couldn't pay the payments between $275 and $475, moved back to Karagümrük and Balat around Sulukule. There are only two families left in Tasoluk. This liquidation is the result of the regression. They realized that the ancient places were being driven from Sulukule even though they had been cleverly driven by what they called the human, the social project, the urban transformation project. The Conqueror's municipality held hands with the Turkish City of Turkey and built six hundred and forty duplexes and triplex houses. It's supposed to be 120 square feet of social housing for Sulukule. They sold these villas to non-Romanians. Roma families who left their homes in Tatholuk and Kayabaşı, settled in the old neighborhoods of Sulukule, in the basements of Sultan neighbourhood, in places like the places they left them, but out of the old places. They changed the name and structure of Sulukule. It's not Sulukule anymore, it's Karagümrük neighborhood. The Roma, now settled in the walls of their old neighborhood, are sadly looking at their old neighborhoods outside of their new neighborhood. They look at the so-called human project, the neighborhoods that the municipal-TOK community has transformed into, and they look at each other, "Did we get tricked?" They ask, "Was it a transformation or a liquidation?" They look at each other, and they ask each other. In the history of Istanbul, 2009 is the date of the destruction of a cultural entity, Sulukule, in a city of eight thousand years of culture. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0130par0116	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three proposals in Article 21. Congressmans, the three motions I'm going to now read are the same. I'm going to read these motions, and I'm going to process them together, and I'm going to promise them separately at the request of the motion holders. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 21st edition of the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under 180 Rows of Disaster Risks. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Haluk Eyidoğan İdris Star Yildıray Sapan Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Kemalettin Yilmaz D. Ali Torlak Yusuf Halaçoğlu Enver Erdem Mehmet Doğan Kubat Smurf Ünal of Nurettin Canikli Ramadan Can Sevim Berker Bedrettin Yıldırım Mihrimah Belma Line Mehmet Akyerek Does the commission agree with the motions? We're leaving it to appreciation, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0131par0143	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0130par0144	Mr. Group Vice Presidents, shall I have you read the grounds...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0132par0145	Mr. Sakine Oz.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0130par0146	Mr. Oz, here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0133par0148	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we've been talking about the risk of disaster here for days, so the government is very sensitive to disaster. I wonder if it is. Look, I'm going to tell you about a natural disaster in Manisa. You're thinking about turning it when there's a risk, but in a small area, you're too late to cure disaster that's causing people a lot of trouble. Congressmans, it's not too late. Last Thursday, Köseali village and surrounding Salihli district, Köseali village of Alaşehir district, Kavaködere village of the villages around it, Karacaali village of Sarıgöl district, where the cherries grow, and again the village of Salihli district of Gökeybüb are filled with strawberry fields. Twenty minutes full of nuts. I'm the first MP to go to villages after the hail, and I don't know if anyone left afterwards. Yet, our villagers had not been able to cast their surprise upon them, but they were thinking black and black, looking at grape clusters laid down on the ground, and the shoots bruised by the hail. They were sad to welcome the Day of Farmers on May 14th. The village of Köseali and all its surroundings support from the vineyard. The hailing disaster caused damage to the ties in these regions between 20 per cent and 100 per cent, some 2,500 hectares of land were damaged, and as you can imagine, most of these ties were uninsured because they were insecure by economic reasons and lack of agricultural insurance. There are some of you lawmakers who know how to do laces. When a bond is exposed to such a hail of disasters, it reduces not a year but two or three years of efficiency, sometimes causing the bond to be removed completely. Therefore, the help hand to the manufacturers must be extremely powerful, and it really has to heal the wounds. Authorities from the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting went to the village of Koseali and its environment on Monday. The support will be determined based on the damage. However, many of the Kösei villagers are partners, so they don't own the bond. Our peasants, who don't have a line of ties, are also damaged by this disaster. For this reason, the most important demand of our peasants is that all farmers in the village be delayed for at least a year without interest, in debt to the Agriculture Bank and other banks and agricultural loan co-ops. This assistance must be done at once. Salinated leaves filled with hail are a major source of income in our region this time of year. By selling the fresh vineyard leaves that our villagers have collected this season, children pay for school, and mothers pay for their homes on Sundays. Again, our strawberry manufacturers owe money to produce their product. Some of them dug a well, some of them got fertilizer, some of them got plastic. He was going to raise strawberries, pay off his debts, but he didn't just hit his full products, he also hit his hopes. The damage of the strawberry manufacturers was also identified by agricultural chambers and ministry officials. Now it's time for his wounds to be wrapped up, his debts to be delayed. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you will say, "What does this have to do with this law?" It's got a lot to do with it because I talked to these villagers before I got here this weekend. The ruling party didn't even say, didn't call us. They complained. Because of the risk, you're thinking of declaring the city's collapsed Rantfields, historical sites, meadows, 2/B lands a transforming area. You can see that even their licensed homes can be destroyed. But you don't call and ask, no matter what kind of disaster our people have. I invite you to reconsider before you attempt to drive people out of their homes, their businesses, in case of disaster. Who's going to fix permanent damage to cities, people? In fact, all my friends who would say yes to this law need to answer that question first. Dear lawmakers, not only do AKP people live in this country. We all live together in these cities, in the country. We would never agree that the ruling party would see Turkey as an area of opportunity under the pretext of disaster.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0134par0158	Thank you, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0133par0159	I salute the High Assembly with respect to human rights and law, the construction of human-oriented cities that do not harm the environment and nature, the creation of new cities without aesthetics, without shape.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0134par0161	Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0135par0164	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding the 21st Article of the Law Bill of 180 rows under discussion. On this occasion, I salute you all. The government and the Commission have expressed their participation in the motion. So, a mistake in the bill is being corrected. The structure of the bill suggests that in some laws, the recent changes in the same substances, the government is confused, essentially unaware of what it wants to do. Even the name of the bill is not in accordance with the law. Because the clauses from the 10th article of the bill contain provisions that make changes in decisions in other laws and laws. This must be considered in the name of the bill. The AKP wants to transform and transform Turkey's natural and urban infrastructure from top to bottom. In the case of the law of the ideas, proposals, and criticisms of the interested parties, and without enough debate, our cities will be dragged one step further towards unscheduledness, and chaos will grow in the urban area. For nine-and-a-half years, zoning and housing-related powers, formerly known as Public Works, Tourism and Environment ministries and the Privatisation Administration, have been transformed into a complex structure between TOKI and municipalities, and the city's tissues have been corrupted as a result of a co-dependent structure. This time, all powers are created by gathering in one hand, an uncontrollable force. On the other hand, the bill, designed to reduce the risk of disaster, includes regulations to enable the plunder of natural beings such as forests, mechas, wetlands, coastals, agricultural sites, and to pave the way for new disasters. The bill will cause a lot of people to be victims, and many of them will be able to provide city rants. Excluding the general tender process with the bill will pave the way for corruption and irregularities. Citizens have neither the right nor the right to appeal to decisions taken against them. I've done this thing that defies a citizen, and his understanding means abuse of his law enforcement power. As the National Movement Party, we believe that transformative projects should be implemented for settlements in areas with immediate and immediate risk of disaster. As a matter of fact, in our party programme and our election statement, it has been particularly important to transform disaster-related regions and disaster-threatening structures and to move citizens to safe settlements. The strategy for urban transformation projects should be the first step in determining which cities will be dealt with under what kind of transformations. The general principle of urban transformation projects should be that projects be carried out by local initiative. In this context, local governments are primarily obliged to conduct a city analysis that deals with a comprehensive and holistic structure of transformation fields, establishing a relationship with each other. In part of the urban transformation, the areas of intervention may be primarily in areas that are vulnerable to natural disasters, the conversion of housing and other utilities, the conversion of illegal areas, the transformation of ill-ustained working spaces within the city, the transformation of areas that remain in the city outside of the unqualified, habitable city standards. However, the structures in areas that are primarily at risk of disaster need to be put into transition. No additional burdens should be imposed on citizens, no harm done. Urban transformation must not be built as a city-raising tool. Sentences such as obstruction of the application should not be included. Interested ones must be allowed to participate in their own processes, and their right to appeal to decisions. Control mechanisms should be brought in to prevent unrestricted administrative units from being excluded from their jurisdiction. Corruption, irregularity, lore, inequality must not be given the opportunity, it must be based on fairness. I wish the bill would be a blessing. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0136par0177	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. Mr. Canikli, do you want me to give you the reason?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0137par0179	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0136par0180	I'm reading the reason: The amendment to Article 6107 and the Bank of Provinces shall be waived in the Law on Anonymity Corporation. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are unanimous. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, in the framework of these proposals, we removed Article 21 from the text. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. As they know, the proposed bill or proposal is the fourth Article of Article 87 of the Civil Code, which requires a amendment to a clause that does not exist in the commission text but is very closely related to the bill or proposal. Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the Commission. If the commission joins the motion, mostly, with 14 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the following 22nd article to the bill on the transformation of the area under the disaster risk of 180, which is being discussed. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman of Nurettin Canikli Look at your love Ramadan Can Orhan Atalalay Osman Coffeeci The statement shall be adopted by the Council of Ministers, which shall be issued in Article 11 of Article 11 of Article 6107, dated 22-26/1/2011, and shall be adopted in accordance with the decision of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general? We have the absolute majority, sir, and we agree. Since the commission has only participated in the motion, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Anyone who wants a word... On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0138par0204	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the power is very confused, friends. It's so complicated that the bill he's downloaded to Congress, the government's bill has just been negotiated, and he's constantly changing things with motions, removing materials; it's not enough, he's building new materials. We made a motion on the 22nd Amendment. And just when we were going to talk about it, the ruling party is missing a new substance. Now, in this kind of legislation, you're going to meet as the basic law, you're going to limit it, and then you're going to add 20 jokes to the 19th article, you're going to see each joke as a separate clause, you're going to discuss it as a separate clause, and then you're going to file a motion on substance abuse. You're confused, your basic laws are confused, your materials are complicated. One of them has 20 articles, one of them has a joke; one of them has twenty jokes that aren't connected; the next thing you know, you remove a substance, you put a new substance. Believe me, after this law is passed, you will be the authors of this process, which will continue and continue. There's a risk of disaster in our country, we don't deny it. You're going to tear down buildings, and you're going to do new things instead. Then why are you afraid of the engineering rooms? Why are you afraid of the local authorities? Why are you avoiding civil society? Why are you avoiding tender control? Why don't you make a public, transparent legal arrangement in this area of transparency, this transparency, this intellectual, $1 trillion worth of $1 trillion? You connect it to TOKI, you connect it to the Prime Minister, you're in real estate. You're good at privatizing everything, you're good at doing disaster work, and you're good at doing it as a government contractor, as a real estate agent. So which side of you is right, for God's sake? Is your privatisation the right side, or is your statehood the right side of the law? As the Peace and Democracy Party, we will not allow you to risk disaster and build a portal, which we strongly oppose. We're being very clear, don't do this. If you want to do this, be transparent. Be transparency, transparency, transparency, transparency in coastal tourism, transparency in culture, that's the nature of democracy. When you're behind closed doors and using centrifugal powers, I'll use it only to myself and my own party members. That's the app for this today. We won't let you. We're here to complain about you to 75 million people, to the public. We call upon our people 75 million: O our people, with this bill, the government will destroy your house, but it will not make your home, but it will make your home, I tell you! I'm saying something so clear here. One trillion dollars... a central government's democracy claim, which collects all these powers from Antalya to Mersin to İstanbul, is nothing more than bullshit. You will try to rob the people, rather than protect the people in the face of disaster, in an area whose budget is not supervised, in which the Court does not serve. Is that even possible? There's something wrong with everything. You were wrong about the Uludere massacre, and you're confused there. You always zigzag when 34 of our citizens are being bombed by our own fighters in Uludere, because you're not speaking the truth, and because you're not speaking the truth, you're in every case. Look, the last thing you saw was National Intelligence, MIT after the Uludere massacre, which said, "We don't have any intelligence." The Parliamentary Commission for Human Rights was told in the nine-page report issued by the Ministry of National Defence, the General Staff: "The intelligence is national, but the investigation is confidential." We can't give you information. We can't give it to the council because a special prosecutor has made a confidentiality decision on this investigation. There goes your balloon. It exploded, immediately, quickly. We asked you if you got the intel from Heron, Mossad, or from the predators, CIA? We asked clearly, and it turns out that these issues are sensitive, confidential, and we can't answer that. Even if he did, it broke out in the American media today, and the Wall Street Journal is very clear. Yes, intelligence isn't national, intelligence is imported, it's imported. Predators gave the information, Turkey applied it. This one's got sheet descriptions. What are they saying? The United States and Turkish officers work side by side at the Center of the Joint Intelligence Integration Cell in Ankara. They say, they say, very clearly. She says... side by side. We give information, and it says Turkey, the government, who is misusing information. So the government's order, the government's order, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the EDOK, the people who ordered the fighter planes... that's what the catch is. Now, a man, a conscience, a conscience, a conscience, a conscience, a conscience, a conscience, and a conscience, a man who doesn't tell the prosecutors: "O great special prosecutors of private courts, the source, the Predators, who gave you the information? The Parliament's Human Rights Commission followed them all. Who's misjudged this? Who gave the order after that? Which general was on duty that day? Who was on duty? Which pilots dropped the bombs? Who gave false information to the government? Look, that day, it's 3:00 a.m. I heard about the incident at 00, called the Prime Minister, called the Home Secretary, called the Minister of Justice. They passed me this from the chief of staff: their gentleman is resting. Then it is said that the Minister of the Interior was informed at 6:00 a.m. at 06.00, but his governor was also in Ankara, where the governor was informed of the evening in Ankara. Now, out here, the Home Secretary -- Governor Vahdetttin Özkan was here this evening -- 23 p.m. He needs to explain whether he heard that civilians were killed or not. 03. I'm looking for it, I'm a Group Vice President, I'm representing a party with a group in Congress, and at that time of night, I'm taking a very bad note. I'm asking the Home Secretary, why didn't you come back? Not 34 dead sheep, friends, human, human! People fall apart there, they die. People are going across the border to pick up their funerals, people are taking their ambulances, fifteen ambulances are going to their local government, our municipal organisations are going, our county organisations are going, they're taking those funerals, and the state's gone for two days, friends. What kind of approach is that, and we're asking... after the Predator's information, the prosecutors will remove the confidentiality decision in this investigation, call all the responsible to testify, will they prepare a statement to the Prime Minister in the first place? I wonder if there's a prosecutor in this country who has the guts to give the Prime Minister a trial. It's all very clear here, very clear. The nation will sue the Americans. There's a legal possibility for this in international law. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The nation's officials in America answer for every injury due to negligence. He'll see that in America, and that's how Turkey's foot will be enlightened. First of all, the government says to resolve this, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0139par0214	Thank you. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are four motions on the matter, and I'm reading the motions in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework Article 22 of the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster Risk, number 180, in the following way. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special from Nurettin Canikli Article 104 of the Ataturk Law, dated 11/8/1983, was removed from force by Article 104 of Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Law. Article 3- The Ataturk Cultural Centre is established in Ankara. The Ataturk Cultural Centre area is located in the Ankara Development Plan, which is reserved for this purpose and shown in the additional map. The area includes the Ataturk Cultural Centre, consisting of places that promote national fighting history, Turkish People's Culture and arts and various museums, various scenes and meeting halls, exhibition sites, archives and bookshops, workshops and so on. Congressmans, the three motions I'm going to now read are the same. I'll have these motions read and processed together. I'm going to make a separate promise to them at the request of the motionholders. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 22 of the Law Bill on the Transformation of the Unsubstantiated Areas Under the 180 Rows of Disaster Risk. Haluk Eyidoğan Levent Gök İlhan Demiröz İhsan Kalkavan Sakine Öz Doğan Şaş Sadir Durmaz Yusef Halaçoğlu D. Ali Torlak Sebahat Tuncel Demir Çelik Erol Dora Do you agree with the commission motions? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0140par0248	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0139par0249	Now, let's go from BDP to BDP. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0141par0251	Erol Dora.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0139par0252	Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0142par0253	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the bill of law on the transformation of areas under the risk of disaster number 180. I salute you all. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, urban transformation studies and legislation related to this need to have two basic criteria. The first is the satisfaction of citizens and their not being victimized; the second is that the law is being prepared and implemented according to scientific criteria, by developing environmental and human-oriented projects and by receiving the opinions of relevant rooms. There's no way to say that the bill we're talking about is in accordance with these two criteria. The law, which stipulates that the detection of risky structures should be carried out through major cities or district municipalities itself, will allow municipalities to determine the areas they set. It is possible to talk about two basic problems in this arrangement. How will risky structures be detected by whom? In municipalities that do not have enough technical equipment to identify risky structures, it is unclear who it will be transferred to and whether scientific criteria will be followed in the detection work. Another problem is the anxiety of opening the field in areas to which the TOKI will determine. With this law, it opens the way for arbitrary practices to be made throughout the country in areas where you can get a runt. The draft law defines areas that risk loss of life and property because of the ground structure or construction on it as areas with risk of loss of life and property. Sixty-six percent of our lands are known as 71 per cent of our population, 68 per cent of the total municipalities are in the first and second degree earthquake zone. Given the third and fourth-degree earthquake zones, it is clear that construction on the ground structure is not the key to determining a risky area, given that about 92 per cent of our country's territory is in danger of earthquakes. When it is interpreted in this framework, it is revealed that new structures on the same areas can be built by destroying existing structures that can be declared a risky area because of the unsanitary structures in the city's centre. Earthquakes have shown that within the same area, one of the two structures collapses side by side, and the other one survives the earthquake unscathed. An earthquake is an event of nature, which turns an earthquake into a disaster, without any engineering or adequate engineering services. In this context, the first thing to do in areas at risk of disaster is to use scientific methods and evaluation criteria to determine risky structures. One of the most important savings in the bill is the damage to the property rights guaranteed by the system. Given the understanding that the entire bill is being created, the ministry, the TOKI, and the administrations will have every right to savings on real estate. That means that if the bill is passed in its current form, any savings on real estate will remain at the mercy of the man. Political power plans to take away its property from its citizens, not only to guarantee its right to afford cheap, secure, sound housing, but also to take it away from its citizens with the money it has raised from its teeth. Moreover, its applications will be conducted through the TOKI, which is the purpose of producing dwellings for small-income citizens. Mr. President, this bill, designed to disable all legal legislation in effect, will transform our entire country, especially our metropolitan cities, as well as the envisioned urban transformations can not ensure a healthy urban renewal. In addition to the risk of disaster during urban transformation practices, locals and public benefit must be protected. I hereby salute all of you, that the contrary will bring nothing but the righteous anger of the people. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0143par0263	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Kayseri MP Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu; come in.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0144par0266	Dear President, Congressman, first of all, I salute you all. I'd like to express here in particular... I'll tell you this before I say, Mr. President, for example, the number of decisions are required -- there's not enough decision-making here right now -- even if a button is made, if you press the button when asked, if the doors are locked, I think it's going to be a much better, much more serious House. First of all, I'd like to point that out.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0145par0269	Look at your desks, how many people are sitting there?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0144par0270	It's not what's on our desk, it's you who decide when you're asked to make a decision. We're the opposition, you're the decision makers, let me put it first. So the state needs to be serious first. When a law is brought in, a law that cannot be changed 50 times is not changed 50 times and then brought in. It's a serious matter for the government. In the Ottoman state's time -- look -- what has been done in a hundred and fifty years -- is an application, the shortest time is 0.7 days, the longest time is 13.5 days, average 5.3 days, according to it. Now, what we're discussing here is very serious. Many of you have been abroad, and, you know, from elementary school, children are taken to museums outside of their classes in the classroom, outside of their school, where they actually see their history, their history, their culture, and they get to a certain level. Now, within the Ataturk Cultural Center area -- as stated here -- there will be national fighting history, Turkish public culture arts and a number of such facilities. I hope it's very important that these facilities not only become our students in Ankara, but also the students from other educational institutions of Turkey within Turkey, where they come and they see a lesson here. This area has to go into this particular structure, so if you look at it architecturally as well as on the outside, a person who's going in there should see the republic, see its history, and the students who enter it should be judged in an almost historical pattern, in a manner of order, in a way that they can see and hear with their eyes and ears, in a place of education that they can see and see. The best example of this, as I just said, is that we see it abroad, but in Turkey, our museums are usually museums like Topkapi Palace, Dolmabahçe Palace, like the Museum of Anatolian Civilities. There's no way that the rest of the departments, the museums, are going to become a training ground in this way, the way I said it would be. It is important that from the very beginning of our national history, both with documents and physical structure, the presence of individuals within it, and the construction of its mummies, make it a museum, and the students enter an evaluation here and see their history. Once again, in our Ankara, a very serious conference halls, meeting halls, an area with a complex, and architecturally, an architectural style that reflects the republic must be envisioned here, as it enters this area, and on both sides of the roads, the students must be made sure to have elements on both sides of the republic that are the key symbols of the country. Amasya, the Sivas Congress, the Erzurum Congress, should be given a characterization of the transcripts, including their relays, and then students should be able to make an assessment when they enter this area. This area and the area of the entire station up to the willows, you know, is in the area of Ataturk Forest Farms, and it's actually designed in accordance with the principles of the republic, many of which have been used by the private sector and are used by the 52,000 acres of this land, the Ataturk Forest Farm today has fallen to 32,000 acres. It is important that these areas be evaluated in such a way. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0146par0279	Ankara MP Mr. Levent Gök. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0147par0282	Mr. President, I'd like to say to the members of our Parliament's Republican People's Party, BDP, and HHP, as well as to our members of the AKP, but after I reject this law, perhaps I'll make that assessment for you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0148par0283	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0149par0284	What do you need to be called?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0147par0285	Because we're dealing with a typical AKP classic, a power classic, dear friends. You make a law called disaster risk, and you compress 150 hectares of the protected area of Ataturk (Ataturk) into this law. How is that possible? How can you tell me that, Mr. Canicli? Now, my dear friends, when you pass this law, what do you say in the basis of the law? ▪ Some parts of our country are at risk of earthquakes. • You are enforcing this law to transfer homes that are considered at risk of earthquakes to new areas of business, are you not? Isn't that the reason for the law? Why are you putting a 150 hectare area within this law, starting with the statue in Ulus, Ankara? Are there earthquakes in Ankara, my dear friends? Look, it's an earthquake map from the Ministry of Public Works. There have been virtually no risky earthquakes in Ankara for many years, Mr. President, and I'll show you. The earthquakes in Ankara are a reflection of earthquakes that are felt 100-150km away.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0150par0287	This law is not just about the earthquake, it's about all the disasters.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0147par0288	What disaster has happened? So you're putting the statue of Ulus in Ankara, starting from there, into this law. You mean there's no such risk on the other side of the Nation statue? Look, you're in the wrong way, a typical AKP classic, as usual. You want to erase the traces of Ataturk, we won't allow it. And do you know why you're doing this? Maybe you're not all aware of that. You're doing this for Ankara Metropolitan Mayor Melih Gökçek with such appetites for the development of this area. For days and years, he's wanted to make changes in this area for months, and every project he's done has been stuck with the national committee. But by transferring this law to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, you are essentially leaving it at the mercy of Melih Gökçek. Tell me which Melih is leaving at the mercy of Skycel. Will you leave this 150 hectares of land to Melih Gökçek, who has not laid a foot of rail in Ankara? Is there a subway in Ankara and you want to leave the most valuable area in Ankara? You're going to leave Northern Ankara Urban Transformation at the mercy of a mayor who's screwed up? In Ankara, 4,000 of our people have been victimised by the urban transformation in northern Ankara. Do you know about this? No. Have you ever been to Dikmen Valley? Do you know how the police sent the police from the Dikmen Valley, Melih Gökçek, the Panzers, toss gas bombs on the people, toss smoke bombs on the people? Is that the understanding you're going to leave this place? There's absolutely no such thing. The most indebted municipality is Turkey's most indebted municipality. You make a lot of laws to save the mayor, and that's one of those laws, and you don't realize it. You are also unaware of how the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor spoke in an immoral way on Twitter. Do you watch his Twitter speeches, his conversations with the citizens? Do you watch his immoral remarks to them, my dear friends? We will not deliver this Ankara to Melih Gökçek. We will never give it to you. Know that. All of Ankara's NGOs will stand by this law and let me finish by giving you one more piece of news: Don't mess with Ataturk. All the patriots in Ankara, the Ataturkers, will stand against you in the face of these practices. Finally, the European Court of Human Rights has made a very important decision regarding this disaster risk bill involving 15 million housing sites, and let's see what you do now. I'm having that decision translated, and in a day or two, I'm going to announce it to the press, dear friends. Turkey, know that if you apply your rights to this law, it will be one of the most controversial countries in the European Court of Human Rights, and you will pay compensation to everyone. That's why I'm warning you. If you reject this law, you will have the right to remain, and I am done. I bid you all good evening.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0151par0296	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0152par0297	Wait, let me vote on these things. I submit the motions to your votes:
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0153par0299	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0152par0300	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0154par0302	There aren't 50, Mr. President, there aren't 50!
tbmm-2012-05-16sit04spe0152par0303	There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0152par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 107th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision to vote on the three amendment proposals for the removal of Article No. 180 from the text of Article 22 of the Bill of Law. Now, I'm going to put the motions back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted. We will continue the talks of Bill 180. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework Article 22 of the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster Risk, number 180, in the following way. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends Article 104 of the Article 11/8/83 of Ataturk Culture, and Article 2876 of the Ataturk High Institution of Language and History Law was abolished. Article 3- The Ataturk Cultural Centre is established in Ankara. The Ataturk Cultural Centre area is located in the Ankara Development Plan, which is reserved for this purpose and shown in the additional map. The area includes the Ataturk Cultural Centre, consisting of places that promote national fighting history, Turkish People's Culture and arts and various museums, various scenes and meeting halls, exhibition sites, archives and bookshops, workshops and so on. Is the commission in? We're leaving it to appreciation, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0155par0017	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0152par0018	I'm reading the reason: The study of improving, beautifying and renovating sites within the Ataturk Cultural Center area has been regulated. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 23 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the draft of Article 23 of the Law Charter on the Transformation of Areas Under the 180 Numbered Disaster Risks, as discussed, be removed from the text of the Bill. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Mahmut Tanal Haluk Eyidoğan İdris Yildı Ali Sarıbaş Sakine Öz Is the commission in? Mr. President, we don't agree. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0156par0035	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0152par0036	Mr. Hamzacebi, please come in.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0157par0038	Mr. President, members of parliament, this clause of the bill is incorrect; the Law 2981, which aims to resolve property and development problems of buildings that were removed in 1983 in violation of the zoning and slum legislation. Although the law was adopted in 1983, we still have a large number of citizens whose results have been taken, who have been identified as the rightful owner of this law, and who have received a deed allocation certificate and have not been resolved the property issue. In response to that, Mr. Secretary or the ruling party spokesman, by displaying the clause in the activation clause of the law, we remove this clause, but we put it into effect a year later. Thus, within a year, these operations will result. They can make a statement. This genius shows that this substance was put here for nothing, that it was misplaced. According to Law 2981, the owners of these structures have applied to the relevant administration in their time to address the development and property problems of building and squatting structures that are in violation of the laws of the building and the slums, and have obtained the deed allocation papers after they have submitted the documents concerning their rights. However, due to the failure of the relevant administrations and municipalities to complete these procedures in the time of the reform, development plans were not made and the fact that the ownership of these properties was not transferred by the national estate to the relevant municipality, our citizens did not get the deeds they deserved. We still have hundreds, thousands of citizens in many counties, especially Istanbul, who have a deed of allocation and are waiting to receive the deed. By this law, Law 2981 has no further function. The idea of removing it will mean that we do not know it. I've got a big savings. This citizen's build-up is still waiting for its problems to be resolved. This law, Law 2981, has been abolished and their problems have been left unsettled. So the right thing to do is to remove this material here. It does not change the fact that this clause, in Article 2981, was issued a year after the law was passed. A year is a very short time. If you do not agree to this motion, we have a motion in effect that the application of this clause be issued four years from now. But maybe you'll reconsider that one year, you'll change it; two years, three years. Maybe you'll say, I don't know. But whatever time you put in, if you put it in the application clause, there is a need for Law 2981 for a while longer. Then what's right is that this law is in effect. When he completes the law function, the lawmaker, the government brings in a bill, Parliament accepts it, the law is revoked. In order to correct this error, our motion is to remove the clause from the bill, which repeals Law No. 2981. I present to you your knowledge and your attention. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0158par0044	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in the temporary article 1. I'll have them read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the interim Article 1 of the Law bill on the Transformation of the 180 Rows of Disaster Risks be changed in the following way. Haluk Eyidoğan Mahmut Tanal Kadir Gökmen Öğün Veli Agha Namik Havutça Sena Kaleli A temporary Article 1- (1) 775, 5366 and 5393, dated 29/6/2001, and the allocations of non-trafficking property due to the Law on Alternate Value Tax Act 4706 and the amendments to the Law and other laws on transforming and healing practices have been removed within two years, as well as on behalf of the Ministry of Finance and other public administrations, as well as on the basis of which the allocation or property has been transferred, and the transfers of non-existent to the Ministry of Finance, which has been imposed on behalf of the Law and on behalf of the document and on behalf of the document. I'm going to read the current motion and process it. It's the second draft of the 180 rows of the law. We offer and propose that the division be replaced in the following way by the Interim Article 1. The allocations of non-transmittances, which have been transferred to TKİ, Administration and other public administrations, and have not been implemented since the time of the allocation or the transfer of property, have been removed and the transfer process has been cancelled. Sebahat Tuncel Demir Çelik Erol Dora Is the commission in? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0159par0067	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0158par0068	Mr. Steel, come in.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0160par0069	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the relevant clause of amendment number 180. We are particularly interested in the fact that business and procedures are being carried out based on the centralisation of the Ministry of Environment, that the way for central authority to take initiative in all areas and in all areas and in all operations is to be opened, instead of the democratic function of the state, we are finding it a centralised procedure to disrupt the initiative of the local and local population. In this respect, it would mean that local governments, especially mayors, municipalities, have been denied authority from the Constitution and the law, and that they should do so by election and by force from the Constitution, and by a part of their activities that he has been urged to do as a duty. No, it'll count as your rule. We think that this is a proposal that is not directly related to both the principle of unconstitutionalism and the decentralisation of the legal state. In this sense, the Ministry of Environment, as well as municipalities, must actively participate in the process of implementing and implementing the process of settlements that are intended to be self-inflicted. It is the necessity of participating democracy, and it must be due to its ability to solve the basic demands and problems of the locals, with its technical capacity. Otherwise, there is no way that the central government in Ankara, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, can know everything that is going on in the district of Varto, in the army's Fatsa, in the Ünye, in the name of Antalya, in Manavgat, or in Istanbul. The fact that he's working for it is the authoritarian state mentality itself. Not recognizing the local initiative, not sharing its dynamics, not adding to the process, is not a peaceful place in today's world. In that respect, handing over the power he received from the election to the public, providing the basic satisfaction of his people, are the most reasonable primary and responsible local governments for continuing in a manner that suits the purpose of the service, is qualified, ahead of its time, and still involves the risk of disaster. This will also find its testimony in the European Union's Regional Local Governments Autonomous Condition, and the United Nations agreements will also be emphasised, and at a point where the world of today is now evolving to govern, it will be necessary to strengthen local governments, establish initiative and authorise them, but to take their mandate and responsibilities from them and place them at the centre, slow, hard-working, slow-working, slow-working, slow-working, and unresolved by the problems of our 90-year-old republic history. He'll make us quit, make us leave the people who live in the locals and the locals. Instead of a solution to the problem, we'll be able to open the way for gangrene, social reflexes and social debates due to unresolvedness. Unknowingly, it is the duty of the House to predict, identify, find a solution to the historical and sociological grounds of some of the good intentions of our work. If the Parliament removes itself from this mission, and continues to impose laws and laws as a basis for arbitrary practices, it would mean breaking the will of the community. In this respect, we say that this law is not democratic, that it can't be incompatible with the legal state, that we can't have our support, and thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0161par0073	Thank you, Mr. Steel. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the interim Article 1 of the Law bill on the Transformation of the 180 Rows of Disaster Risks be changed in the following way. Haluk Eyidoğan (Istanbul) and his friends A temporary Article 1- (1) 775, 5366 and 5393, dated 29/6/2001, and the allocations of non-trafficking property due to the Law on Alternate Value Tax Act 4706 and the amendments to the Law and other laws on transforming and healing practices have been removed within two years, as well as on behalf of the Ministry of Finance and other public administrations, as well as on the basis of which the allocation or property has been transferred, and the transfers of non-existent to the Ministry of Finance, which has been imposed on behalf of the Law and on behalf of the document and on behalf of the document. Is the commission in? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0162par0084	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0163par0085	Mr. Sena Kaleli...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0161par0086	Mr. Sena Kaleli. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0164par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the Republican People's Party motion on the interim 1st Article of Law Bill 180. In the beginning of my words, I salute the High Council. Ladies and gentlemen, as La Fontaine said, the strong's mind is always more reliable, and so is justice. The strong manipulate the weak, accuse them of being marginal and incompatible, obstructing the open and transparent society. The temporary article 1 is also the legal infrastructure of unscheduledness and unscheduledness. Under this arrangement, the right to hand-holding will be held under the name of return to valuable lands and lands. So this clause raises questions about the government's sincerity. Dear friends, cities are like people with air, water, and land, all colors, with their past, a unique soul, who gains an identity. That spirit and identity are preserved, and if developed, the world becomes a cultural heritage. The AKP perceives innovation and transformation as ruining, destroying, and rebuilding, converting valuable places into rantas. So much so that instead of using risk as an excuse to wash the mosque, we're doing a mall. Is the place worth more, or are the buildings we're building worth more? In an intellectual sense, protecting is an obstacle to innovation, but environmental, formal protection is a sign of quality, aesthetics, taste and respect. At this point, mental transformation is as important as cities. Do we think we've created a modern city by subsidizing cities through TOKI? Instead of neighborhood culture, are they self-conscious, exclusive website lives from urban transformation? After the Kambers were evacuated, we saw that none of our given citizens lived in those homes, built houses that fit the way of life they were used to, all scattered, and not their neighbors were accustomed to each other. Isn't it a kind of obligation to take people who aren't used to settling in, where they're used to farming? While Project Rosewater-Laughter may be the true concept of transformation, what is the Kambers and Sulukule, not the art project to remove the discomfort of different lifestyles? Are we going to be happier when artificial cities create Dubai? Precious lawmakers have been presented as the project of the century in the town of Bursa Osmangazi in 2007 as the Project of the Century, the Doğanbey Urban Transformation Project, which was co-operated with the Turkish and Osmangazi Municipality in 2007, as well as as 4,000 entitled citizens and Bursa as a project of the century, but unfortunately it has become a failure of the century. As you can see, this image disorder, created in the center of the city, is causing everyone to lose their minds. There are TOKI dwellings in the landslide area. A similar problem is being experienced in Gürsu Fara. The eastern part of the city, including Georgia, was kept out of urban use, protected by its fertile farmland, water resources and natural structure, while a new ghost town was created and victimised by its rightful owners. Members of parliament have shown that what has happened in the last decade and this arrangement has been brought to you by AKP=TOKI, TOKI=-rant. The AKP massacred the environment with the HES (Hess), legalized land-space speculation with 2/B, sold our land to foreigners, destroyed ancient, touristic, humanitarian areas in the name of urban transformation, sacrificed agriculture, water resources, green areas for the sake of the runt. In Turkey, which is often captured by natural disasters in the earthquake belt, urban transformation is an urgent necessity, but we would like to inform you that we will not allow running and looting, unscheduled and unidentified urbanization. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0165par0102	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the temporary article 1 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in the interim article 2. I'm going to read it and process it: It's the second draft of the 180 rows of the law. We offer and propose the addition of the declaration of the Interim Article 2 of the 1st Article 2 to be added after the declaration of Minister of Environment and Urbanization. Sebahat Tuncel Demir Çelik Erol Dora Is the commission in? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0166par0115	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0165par0116	I'm reading the reason: Inclusion of local governments will allow urban plans to function healthier and more efficiently. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary article 2, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two proposals in Article 24; I'll have them read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 24 of the Law Charter 1 (a) be replaced in the following manner. Nurettin Canikli Recep Special Mehmet Doğan Kubat Article 19 (a) was replaced by Article 29/6/2011, dated 644 and published 3 years after Article 23 and Article 23 of Article 23 of Article 2 (e) published by Article 2 of the Law on the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Article 644 I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 24th draft law on the transformation of the 180-order disaster-related zones. We provide and propose that the clause (a) be changed in the following way. ▪a) 4 years after the release of Article 23 Prof. Dr. Haluk Eyidoğan İdris Star Yildıray Sapan Is the commission in? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0167par0140	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0165par0141	Mr. Eyeborn, please.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0168par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, when the study of this law began, the vocational rooms were making statements. One of them said, "This is not the law of urban transformation, it is the law of TOKI." So I looked at the law, and in twenty-five sentences of the law, they dropped one on the Commission, and in twenty-four sentences, it says, "TOKİ" (in twenty-five sentences). So I said, of course, they're right, so it's a toki-sized law if you write it in twenty-four sentences in a law. Now, the main axis of growing up in Turkey is connected to the construction sector, you know that. The construction sector is constantly supported by using it as a TOKI tool on an increasing scale of public spending. Turkey's growth perspective, which is largely dependent on the decision of foreign financial investors, is dependent on the support of Istanbul and the construction sector in the country. When you look at the spending pen of the budget's capital costs, you see a continuous increase. That's because the public is quickly transferring funds to the service building and other construction investments. Now, why am I saying this? Because -- as I've just stated -- this bill states that in twenty-four sentences, it says ▪TOKI centuries. So this is how it's going to go on. I think that's pretty good. See, now, it started with the Van earthquake, the local transformation, the rhetoric, has sped up. In fact, we understand that the center of this, the center of this urban transformation, the transformation of areas at risk of disaster, will be significant in Istanbul, because all developments and numbers show it. In the weeks before that, we passed the 2/B Act here, and then we passed the deed and the cadastro law and the land sale to foreigners, which had already been postponed for two and a half months. These laws were to be passed first, so they would have to be a coaster for what we call a civil transformation, which you have completed. Istanbul's share in Turkey's total gross is 30 per cent. 62% of the expected $2/B billion income -- these are your numbers -- is from Istanbul, so you can calculate from here. In March 2012, a member of the GYO Board of Real Estates Board of Directors at Cannes said it would create a two-thirds-dollar economy, along with the 400 billion TL volume of urban transformation in Turkey's construction sector, as well as infrastructure costs, land value and positive contributions. He says this is not a job for Turkish companies alone, but Turkey needs morale. So we're talking about a bill for the transformation of disaster-threatening areas, but what others say. See, on March 24, 2012, the IMSAD report states that the 2/B law, which we emphasised to continue the development of the construction industry in 2012, is critical to the sale of property to foreigners and urban transformation projects. If these critical elements kick in, there should be a significant increase in activity in the construction sector, otherwise the construction sector may seem to have slowed down in 2012. It means that we are making this law to keep Turkey's construction sector in line with disaster-threatening areas. And where is the transformation of disaster-threatening areas? It's a way to get the economy back on track. It turns out that to achieve these goals, you need a transformation law that will be harsh, even violent, that will not be heard, that will be heard, that will be tolerated, that will be nobleming, that no one will be able to stop the execution, that you will lose your rights, that all existing legislation will become laws that will not be enforced -- in order to enforce the law. Recently, I went to a meeting in Istanbul about the transmutation law of urban transformation and disaster-threatening areas organised by the Istanbul Bar, almost everyone was a lawyer and there were city planners. A lawyer said, "Rantal transformation is the law of decree." My respects.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0169par0153	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 24 of the Law Charter 1 (a) be replaced in the following manner. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends Article 19 (a) was replaced by Article 29/6/2011, dated 644 and published 3 years after Article 23 and Article 23 of Article 23 of Article 2 (e) published by Article 2 of the Law on the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Article 644 Is the commission in? We're leaving it to appreciation, sir. Government?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0170par0163	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0169par0164	I'm reading the reason: As part of this clause, which belongs to various public institutions and institutions and has been modified, the implementation of the clause concerning the amendment is scheduled to be postponed for three years, in order to complete and finalise the ministry's work and to ensure the adoption of other public institutions and organisations to this new situation. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes on the matter 24/ within the accepted framework of the motion: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 25 that I read and process: We propose and propose that the statement of the Council of Ministers of the 25th Amendment be changed as Minister of the Environment and Urbanism. M. Akif Hamzacebi Haluk Eyidoğan Ali Serindağ Is the commission in? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0171par0179	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0169par0180	Mr. Hamzacebi, please come in.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0172par0182	Mr. President, I'd like to make an assessment of the entire bill on the basis of this motion. We're discussing a very important bill and we're discussing its final item. The bill concerns tens of millions of our citizens, where they live, whether they conduct commercial, professional, or other activities, or somehow own property. It's such a comprehensive, important design. At first glance, the bill appears to regulate the transformation of disaster-threatening areas, but when we look at its material, it reveals that there is no substance that emphasizes disaster except a few articles, and is not limited to a transformation based on disaster. Understanding, which controls the whole bill, is a general transformation, including disaster. So the transformation of areas that are not at risk of disaster is a general and fundamental understanding that dominates this bill. The third article (7) of the bill will be seen to be subject to transformation in terms of the implementation integrity of even buildings that are not at risk of disaster. Article 3 (7) of Article 3 (7) will be sacrificed in terms of implementation integrity, even though a building with no risk of disaster - a building that is resistant to earthquakes - will be sacrificed for transformation. Therefore, it is impossible to say that the bill accepts a transformation based on disaster. The bill gives the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism extraordinary powers. Of course, it is important that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and the zoning authorities move very quickly in the face of an extraordinary danger such as an earthquake. No one can throw that importance aside, but we don't know how these extraordinary powers will be used in the hands of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, the elements of this, the objective elements. For example, when the bill defines management in Article 2 of Article 2 of the article, it is based on the municipalities of the capital city, it has excluded the municipalities of the city within the city limits from the definition of management. Only if the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism approves of these municipalities will be able to operate within the urban transformation practice. By what measure will the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization not or will not be able to employ municipalities within the city limits? That's a very bad authority. With these powers, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is practically a Turkish municipality. All of Turkey will be able to make zoning plans, change all plans, perform registration procedures for all buildings until the building license. The 17th amendment of the bill, added by a motion issued during the General Assembly talks, will also be authorized to build mosques and dorms, under the name of urban transformation or in the construction of any mosque and homeland without urban transformation. Local municipalities within the city limits will not have that authority. So the bill excludes the people of the region, the borough municipalities, which are representatives of those people. Any urban transformation, any plan and project can succeed if it is prepared with a participating understanding if it includes the people of the region. Right now, because of this law, the owners have been weakened by contractors. Contractors select buildings in Istanbul, choose apartments, like apartments. I will destroy your building in thirty days, and if you do not decide to bring it down, I will give you a second term; and if you do not destroy it again, the chiefs will destroy your building. If you say so, you have delivered the owner, and left him weak. We've had some serious reviews. We've expressed how ill-advised the 30-day period is. Perhaps some corrections will be made, but since understanding of the entire bill has not changed, unfortunately, the desired benefit will not take place. The bill will create great uncertainty and confusion. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm out of time. So this is where I end my words. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0173par0191	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit Article 25 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. The negotiations of the bill are complete. Members of parliament, the government will now meet its demand for the renegotiation of the 5th and 7th amendments of the 180th row of the government, which is adopted in accordance with Article 89 of the Civil Code, and at the beginning of today's merger. Now, I'm renegotiating the Fifth Amendment. There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of Article (3) of the 5th Article of the Law Charter on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster Risks of 180, we propose and propose that the word substitution be replaced as subtitled. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special from Nurettin Canikli Ramadan Can Tülay Kaynarca Yusuf Başer Is the commission in? We're leaving it to appreciation, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0174par0210	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0173par0211	Read the reason. The deadline for the destruction of risky structures has been intended to increase from 30 days to 60 days. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. It's the first time I've run a monopoly negotiation, and I'm so afraid I'm gonna make a mistake for him. I am renegotiating the 7th Amendment. In the 7th article, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Ik...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0175par0220	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Group to renegotiate Article 7 of the Bill of Law on the Transformation of Areas Under Disaster 180, where we meet. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, we have reached the end of a process that began two and a half months ago on a very important law. However, after this law, I wish that the arrangements to contribute to our country would be a blessing. However, as expressed in the talks during this law, the bill creates the TOKI giant. TOKI, as we all know, has become a financier institution, especially before the elections, as an advertising tool for the ruling party. These people will never forgive that in any way. Now, in a situation like this, an institution that is pregnant with new ads needs to be cleaned up. Dear lawmakers, it's true, of course, to do urgent work in disaster areas, but how to choose contractors, according to what criteria, the TOKI chooses these contractors, which are uncertain. And outside the disaster zone, there's an emergency contract, so what's the point of that, what's the logic of that? What is there in the property of the chosen contractors, what is sought, is uncertain. For example, in the heart of Ankara, the logic of contracting as part of an emergency should be explained to us in some way through Mr. Secretary. If you need to make someone rich, take the law out, put the money in your pocket, make them rich, but without any urgency, there has to be a reason for doing urgent work through TOKI. Unfortunately, I don't think anyone would explain such a motive. We will continue to follow this from relevant institutions. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, discrimination during the AKP ruling period in this country's natural disasters has hurt the conscience of 75 million people living in this country. There have been two earthquakes in this country over the last year. I wish all our citizens, affected by this earthquake, well, I wish them all well. But now there must be a reason why infrastructure projects in another province or other districts of this province have to come back from the authorities, while infrastructure is being done rapidly through TOKI on one side. While substructure projects are being renovated quickly -- God bless -- in the Van, why are infrastructure projects not being implemented in the districts that were damaged by the earthquake? Why aren't the projects offered by Simav Municipality supported? Therefore, they must be reviewed under this Disaster Law and to be eliminated from discrimination. Just three days ago, I'm sharing with you the same note that a four-circled building owner brought to me and a fellow MP from the ruling party: Mr. Deputy, I own a four-circle building. My building has been located with medium damage. The government's offer is $15,000, but the money the project engineers want from me is $160,000. How am I supposed to strengthen this building with $15,000? Why does this government withhold its support from us? I'm announcing it, Mr. Minister. We need to get ahead of this, and in a year or so, only four projects have been approved by the municipality and four buildings have been built to strengthen. Dear Minister - God forbid - we can't predict what will happen to many buildings that have recently been slightly and moderately damaged in an unexpected earthquake. I've got a scientific report on the latest Simav earthquake, the earthquake that triggered it, the 2011-2012 Simav earthquake event. The report states that the simav basin was translated by living faults, which triggered small faults found in the region as a result of an earthquake of 5.9 in the 2011 earthquake, which resulted in a very long earthquake activity caused by the structure of the region. Again, the technical properties of many earthquakes during this period have been explained, and in January 2012 48 earthquakes -- from 1.7 to 3.9 -- were resurfaced between 64 in February 2012, 89 in March 2012, 586 in April 2012, 586 in April 2012, and 244 in May 1, and 5 May 2012. The technical properties of this region must be revealed immediately and re-examined with changes in the framework of the draft. Dear Minister, I'd like to share the final sentence of this report with you: when assessed in this scope, there is no way that Simav earthquakes can trigger the Gediz fault that was broken in 1970, as different people have said in the press, and produce a large earthquake that is larger than seven. However, more likely 2009, 2012 earthquakes -- an earthquake has continued in this region since February 17, 2009 -- could trigger the breaking of active, unbreakable fault fragments if there is a tali fault zone that has been broken. However, it should not be ignored as a positive development when earthquakes from 2009-2012 occurred and large energy discharges occurred in the fiscal faults within the zone. The earthquake activity should be expected to be reduced and to continue for a while. The anxiety of citizens in the region will continue for a while now that this report is taken into account. For fear of entering his house now, and for fear of an earthquake at any moment, let me shout once more from here, and you shall hear it, Mr. Minister. We must send enough tents, enough blankets, and other urgent supplies to the Governorate of Kütahya. In a possible earthquake, it is greatly beneficial to take this precaution ahead of time so that new disasters do not occur. Dear Minister, the local trade is finished, and it is never, never, ever possible to pay the government the money when it is time to pay the tariffs that are being postponed. With a new configuration and instalments on this issue, these people need to be prevented from migratory from the region. With the recent earthquakes, I'm once again sharing with you about 7,000 people from Simav County have emigrated. Because of this earthquake that occurred in our province, I find it useful to send delayed services there immediately. Dear Minister, as I've told you before, it must be clear that light and medium-damaged owners will have a cheaper business and housing with the government's loan on their land. THIS government must give up without forcing the authorities to buy an apartment. Please send your most trusted people to that area, interview five or ten Turkish-owned citizens, and you will learn from the very first-hand of their suffering. Get up from the village, from the village, and take an apartment from the TOKI buildings in Simav. There is no point in punishing these people. These people are already finished with the psychological impact of the earthquake. It is inevitable for those people to create a place where they can be with their animals who live in their village and in their town. And once again, I give you all my final warning on this matter, and once again, I give you all my regards. I wish the law would be a blessing. Have a good evening.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0176par0234	Thank you, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0177par0235	Mr. President, I'd like a word on my own behalf.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0176par0236	Sure, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0177par0238	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a personal pledge on the 7th amendment of the bill on the transformation of disaster-threatening areas. My respects to all of you. The law is such an interesting law that, of course, law was destroyed in Turkey along with AKP ruling, a fascist dictatorship was established, law was destroyed for the spread of this fascist dictator in all areas, there was no concept called the person's safety, there was no law, and now a law has been passed to lay hands on the property of a citizen. With this law, who is given authority over the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism? Recep Tayyip Erdoğan is being given to him. What does Recep Tayyip Erdogan want to be in this country? He wants to be a dictator. You see this in every practice, precious MPs. Now, these transformation revenues brought in by law are so large that you give them to the Ministry's order, they have no control over their expenditures, and you create such an arbitrary ministry with income gathered here, with which you don't depend on the provisions of the State Officers' Law, where you take all the revenues that you've been assigned to the Ministry, and then you take care of the budgets of the minister's earlier in this job, and maybe one-quarter of the state's income will go up, maybe one-fourth of its income, if you don't stick to the rules. Now, the esteemed MPs, Lenin, said to Lenin: "Ya, comrade, this people have been oppressed, they have been poor, they will rise against us the day after tomorrow." He said, "No, you must bring me a chicken from there." He brought the chicken, put it under his jacket, turned it off, turned it on, and the chicken popped out. He said, "Bring it again." Next time he put it in, he opened the jacket and left. Well, let's see if you can pull the feathers off that chicken. They pulled their feathers, brought them, put them under the jacket, Lenin, unbuttoned them, and he saw that the chicken was staying in his bosom, not running away. Look, the more you send these people away, the more he will need you, so he will take refuge with you. Now, that's what the AKP brought.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0178par0244	That's an insult.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0177par0245	In Turkey, it creates a political power that doesn't work, doesn't produce, needs charity, holds all the power of the state in its own hands, and it says that at certain times with this political power channel, this government, this citizen, at this period of time, has come to a certain stage of the age where Turkey is now trying to survive, by disseminate the money it receives unfairly, by handing its money to the citizens, by handing its people in charity at certain intervals, by creating a non-existent, lazy, unthinking Turkish society. It's easy in this age -- in the age of computers -- it's not possible for people to remain completely ignorant at their preferred level, but unfortunately, with the high-value lawmakers, AKP, most of them trying to manipulate Turkey, the basic of the state -- the Republic has been gnawed all over for 80-odd years, its castles have been gnawed, and those revolutions that have kept modern Turkey The last time, 4+4+4 Law was passed the other day, and the President of the Religious Affairs brought Koran lessons to five-year-olds. Recep Erdogan said: "We've made a silent revolution. It's not the silent revolution that he calls a silent revolution, it's the silent counter revolution. So Turkey destroyed all those fields in its modernisation, in the direction of the secular republic, in the direction of science, in the direction of technology. Thus, a government now trying to drag Turkey into a regime towards the darkness of the Middle Ages tried to bring a public structure. Under the circumstances, we will continue our struggle. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0179par0248	Thank you, Mr. Young. There's a motion on matter that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is transferred to the Ministry's central accounting unit by the end of May of the year, which follows the account period (c) of the first joke (c) of the 7th article of the Law Charter on the Transformation of the Areas Under the Disaster. The same joke (c) was the same as the second sentence of Article (1) (c) and the third sentence of the same clause (c) of the same article (c) and the second sentence of the Bank of Provinces (c) which is included in the second sentence (c) according to this joke (c) and the duration of the account period (i.e.g.g. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can from Nurettin Canikli Osman Love Look Hilmi Bilgin Fifty percent of the profits from Bank activities outside the Treasury revenues and interest revenues of the Bank of the Bank of Provinces Bank, which is dated 26/01/2011 and will be made under Article 3 of the Law 6107 under Article (1). Do you agree with the commission? We're leaving it to appreciation, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0180par0260	We're in business, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0181par0261	Motive.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0179par0262	Read the reason. The reason is that 50 per cent of the income from Article 3 of Law 6107, dated 26/01/2011 and Article 6107, to be used for the purpose of this Law, was arranged. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 7th Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, before the bill is voted, I'm going to make a promise to our two friends to announce the vote in favor and against. The first statement in Poland belongs to Mr. Oktay Saral. Here you are, Mr. Saral.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0182par0270	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge to be in favor of all the provisions of the Bill of Law on the Transformation of Areas Under Disasters, number 180. I hereby salute all of Turkey and all of you. My dear friends, the main purpose of the bill is to create healthy and habitable areas and dwellings, providing the transformation of disaster-risk areas and the destruction of risky structures. As we all know, our country, unfortunately, is in the earthquake belt, at various levels. We all know it's in this earthquake belt, especially 92 percent. We live our lives together with earthquakes and natural disasters. Looking back on the past, unfortunately, we've suffered a lot because of these earthquakes and disasters, and we've suffered a lot in the nation. From the 1900s until now, 100,000 people have been killed in the earthquake, unfortunately, and nearly a million buildings have been destroyed or destroyed at the point of total damage. My fellow lawmakers, especially after the 1950s, were destroyed in the natural, historical and cultural area, as well as in the lack of technical and social infrastructure due to rapid migration from the countryside to the city. As a result, as we all know, that evil landscape has found itself before us all. Unorganized, unhealthy, life and loss of property, without urban aesthetics, in violation of zoning legislation, has come to this day. We all know how risky the building stock is for our country, especially as a result of these recent earthquakes. If 7 and over 1 million of the 1.5 million buildings that experts have said will either be destroyed or severely damaged, and we will have lost 50 to 100,000 people who have been told by experts. For years, we've lived in sighs, but along with a series of oportunist, day-to-day solaces, we've not had enough interest in this earthquake, and we've all faced it together. Yes, our esteemed MPs, of course, disasters and earthquakes, they shot us all, hurt all of us.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0183par0278	We haven't been in power for ten years, you've been in power for ten years.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0182par0279	That's why I'm specifically saying that the earthquake really hit us all, without the Turkish, Kurd, Alevi, Sunni, rightist leftist and political party distinction. When we look at this, my dear friends, all of our relatives, recently, in Adapazari, about ten years ago, in Istanbul -- just as our councilman said -- our close friend, our friend, our friend, our friend, our friend, our friend -- were devastated. There's no need for populism for that. There's no need to make this a political ranta bond. This problem is a problem for all of us, and we will solve this problem together, my dear friends.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0183par0280	The law is wrong. Make the right law and we'll support it.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0182par0281	Those who don't take part in the solution become part of the problem. I hope we can solve this problem together.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0183par0282	The law is wrong, what should we do?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0182par0283	Yes, we were united in the disasters, we knew we were brothers, and we learned how much we needed each other.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0184par0284	Tell that to the president, tell that to Mr. Recep.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0182par0285	We're 75 million brothers. We're all in Turkey together. We've been through this. See, in our nation, in all our yeasts, in their dough, there is charity, kindness, compassion, and compassion, in short, the ideal to live... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we have a full nation, a country.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0185par0288	Congressman, you're right, but the law is wrong.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0182par0289	Here we really are, in fact, nationally, at this point, at the point where we're supposed to be in an earthquake... Time's up, Mr. President? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I thank you. I hope this bill of ours will be good for our nation, for our country. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0186par0294	Is that why you only allow AKP municipalities?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0187par0295	Thank you, Mr. Saral. To express your opinion on the bill, Mr. Kamer Young, you are welcome.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0188par0298	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, actually, of course, I haven't had much discussion on this law because we're members of the CIT Commission. Actually, there's a commission called CSI Commission, but we check four institutions in one day. Swimmer, two hundred-page reports coming in. In fact, there are no audits, only 20 of our AKP MP friends are coming in, they don't read any reports, they don't say any ideas, they just raise their hand, they call his Hebrew. In such a parliament, we claim to be a Parliament protecting the interests of Turkey in such a law structure. Today the Mukhtar of the village of Kozluca in Ovacık, of Tunceli, calls to me, saying: "Lord, our village has no way. I say to those who care, "Make the way to our village. Look, I give you names, too, the way of the village of Kozluca. They say: "Pick up the money among you villagers, provide fuel, fuel the machine, and then we will make your way to your village." Dear friends, I'm afraid we have no confidence because of one-sided practices and procedures imposed by the AKP. Our friend who was just speaking here said that Kurd, Turk, Alevi, Sunni doesn't listen. But isn't it better if he told Bey Tayyip? What's Mr. Recep doing? As he goes all the way over Syria, he says: "In Syria, the Alevis are in power, the security forces of the Alevis are killing the Sunnis.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0189par0304	When did he say that?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0188par0305	I mean, it always turns me on. Look, Alevis... he says, after that they kill the Sunni there. Look, do you know why Erdogan didn't go to Germany? In the Sivas case... in fact, a large portion of our people who were burned down, all of them left-minded people, but since this was an incident against more Alevi-religious citizens, some of those who participated in the burning process against the people were protected, not captured, and some of them fell from the statute of limitations. Thinking of the statute of limitations, Erdogan said: "May it be good for our country and for our nation." Why should something be good for the country and for the nation? It's because he's enjoyed. So what does he say to his followers? Citizens, if you are near these Alekis again, we are in power, don't worry, we'll keep you from judging, so don't hesitate. There, citizens in Europe also saw it as a provocation against them, and they reacted strongly to a person who was head of Turkey because they did not attribute it to a person in the prime minister's office; Recep Erdogan feared that reaction, and did not go to Germany. Why?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0190par0307	You're lying, you're lying, you're lying! That's a big lie!
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0188par0308	Sir, now he's saying that the Armenians and Alevi Associations have done something against me. I mean, what does he mean by that? He doesn't know what he's talking about, guys!
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0190par0309	Look at your age, what you're saying!
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0188par0310	So, Recep Erdogan, in his time... look, now, when he gets on the stand, does he have a unifying, integrating, welcoming speech of the public? No. It says you and us, they and we say. After that, he talks about the 1940s, about the republic and about Ataturk. Who the hell are you? You were just a kid yesterday. Friend, the people who founded this land did not build factories in ten years, they did not build railways, they did not build SOCs. You sold it, sold it, sold it for ten years, turned the country into onions. Hence, people need to get a little out of hand. Dear friends, in fact, it would be very good if this law were enforced: Look, when I visited the villages of Tunceli, for a long time -- there has been a shakedown here from time to time -- 90 percent of the village houses are cracked, in a state that cannot be inhabited. In fact, I'm preparing a law proposal. In fact, this law must first be enforced in the villages, and all the buildings in the village that are cracked must be confiscated and done, but where is it? Where will this be done? Because we see your practices; they always happen if you're from me in politics, or it's not possible. You're doing it one-sided. So, here, as I just said, you have a great power.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0191par0313	The power of the people, the power of the people.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0188par0314	The political opinion that you're facing -- people who will use this power against you without conscience -- and these people's homes will be seized, their property will be seized, unfairly destroyed, judicial control will not exist, in such a state of law -- are people afraid of justice? There's no such thing as judgment. For him, I am against this law. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0192par0317	Thank you, Mr. Young. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to request that members who can't get into the system ask the technical staff for help, but who can't get into the system, to deliver the ballots to the presidency within three minutes scheduled for the vote. Also, if there are those who are going to vote, I'd like to request that they vote for any minister who will vote for the vote, the color of the game, and the ballot bearing his signature with his name and name, again, within a three-minute period scheduled for the vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The bill on the transformation of disaster-risk fields is a clear result of the vote: ▪ Number of votes used: 236 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck, good luck. We will begin talks with Muğla MP Nurettin Demir and 16 MPs who have been ranked third in line for the amendment of the Higher Education Institutions Act, and with the Law on Law on Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Report. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 241 rows. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Metin Lütfi Baydar, who wants to speak on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr. Baydar.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0193par0343	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the opinion of the Republican People's Party on the Law on Change in the Law of the Institutions of Higher Education. I salute you, our great nation and its representatives. I feel the same way that the names of the universities are changed by the names of the living, as they are being offered in open-car markets to deceive their second-hand customer. It is the right thing to do, and it is the right thing to do in this world, and it is the right thing to do, and it is the right thing to do, and it is the right thing to do in the next generation. That's how the world does it. What problem does changing the university's name to the name of a living politician solve for universities? With the quality problem of universities still standing, academic, administrative and financial autonomy problems still exist, and the SEC law, which was the result of the coup of September 12th, is still in the open, we want to deal with your coups. Who believes your words? I'm just laughing. Wasn't it you, in 2002, who put the removal of the ECHR on the Emergency Action Plan? Then what happened? You've taken over, and you've put pressure on this period that wasn't during the military coup. Anyone who doesn't look like yourself is now in college, and you have people dialing all kinds of tricks to get you out of college. But you're wrong about one thing: college is a forum, where every thought can be discussed and every voice can be heard, and in the academic freedom environment, the truth can be found. You just want to raise people who think like you, who put up a mortgage on your mind, and we have an understanding that accepts people as they are, that counts our differences as our wealth, and that's the difference. When we look at Earth history, we see that people who think like you, at first, seem to have won, but in the end, they always lose. For example, the University of Bologna, founded in Italy in 1088 as the world's first university, was originally ruled by priests and churches and became the center of the Scottish thinking, but eventually became one of the most prominent universities in academic freedom, and became the universities that raised Umberto Eco, Romano Prodi. As much as you think you're creating a transformation in our universities today with people who are close to you, even though colleges don't sound that much anymore, even though you're digesting faculty, students, there's going to be institutions in front of universities that eventually question and control the mind, and you can't escape that. (x) 241 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. We, the Republican People's Party, are not opposed to opening a new university, but we are opposed to opening this new university not having a planning infrastructure. You're opening colleges. Who are these foundations? What training experience and background did he have before? That's what we're wondering. Given the young population of Turkey's straining population and regional conditions, it is natural for Turkey to have 250 universities in 2023, and it is expected. Unfortunately, you do not have a study of the manpower needed by Turkey. Instead of opening similar universities everywhere, the opening of thematic universities focused on specific areas can be discussed. In 26 provinces, we offered 41 thematic universities to open, and you didn't even bring them up. Science and technology, entrepreneurial, natural sciences, social sciences, tourism, health sciences can be specific themes. Today, unemployment is delayed between two and four years with our universities, and faculty students are suspended for four years and vocational colleges for two years, with their parents' money before unemployment, and then they continue to be unemployed after graduating. One of Turkey's most important problems is youth unemployment with a university degree. This is the first problem in the agenda of all our friends who are members of parliament. The government has no problem with the employment of college graduates. Unfortunately, there is no university quota and education for the needs of labour markets. The fundamental contradiction in my higher education is that our people -- our parents -- demand university education of the young population -- but the government has been unable to plan for ten years based on labour markets and economic needs. Turkey, the World Bank and the IMF have been implementing its thesis for the private sector, while it is unfortunately avoiding a difficult and demanding plan for its young. Our proposal for the SEC is simple: the existing structure must be destroyed immediately. After custody of 12 September, the current AKP guardianship must also be lifted. As a general director at the Ministry of Education, Science, Industry and Technology, the SEC should be a unit that organises national human power resources, which contributes to universities' guidance in education and research activities, collecting national data about universities and sharing it in annual reports. This ministry should also include another directorate, quality assessment directorate responsible for the decor and monitoring of national quality standards and decoration of universities in general and new units to be opened. Being a modern university requires financial, academic, administrative autonomy. After the universities have determined their own goals, they need to determine how, by what means and by what means and by what resources they will reach them. Investment decisions should be based on the priorities of the region and universities, not in Ankara, as everyone will appreciate. The universities have the intelligence and the power to prioritize, of course, national strategy documents. In this way, discussions on why and what every penny is spent can be minimized. Globalisation and increased internationalisation in higher education, international mobility and co-operation make it necessary for universities to be institutionally autonomous and education, education, and academic freedom of conduct and localisation to transfer from the SEC to universities. Universitys today must ask permission from the SEC to sign an international co-operation agreement in science and education. Centralist, guardian and controlling approaches prevent people from working at full capacity, to achieve their goals with all their energy. It stands in the way of developing capacity across the country, leading to success. It's a vicious loop, a spiral running backwards. This model from the Industrial Revolution must change. This model is narrow to the information and technology-based, economics and society, rapidly changing and internationalised higher education institutions. And now I'd like to say a few things about national education: the idea that education should be conducted by the state in Turkey is quite old. The idea came to light at the time of the Ottoman Empire in Mahmoud II, and was established in 1857. Since then, one of Turkey's national policy issues has been education. The Law on Combining Education, Tedrisat, which has been nostrilized by many today, was a complement of this idea. The rulers of the state in Turkey have established a national educational system to give them quality education, knowing that new generations are the future of this nation. The nationality of education aims to promote a formation that will free new generations from identity crisis and give them their national identity, but for the past two centuries, Turkey has been the field of conflict of two extreme ideas. First of all, it is easier to import every good concept, institution, system in the West, without seeing the conditions in which they flourish. In the historical process, many concepts and institutions of European communities, which are the product of their own life experience, have not suffered any harm by encouraging Western countries to import as a prescription to save Turkey, but the practice has different results from the West. Notice that fans continue to insist on the accuracy of their own way of thinking. The supporters of another thought that conflicted with them are the ones who say, "The closer we can get to Arab culture and Vehhabi culture, the more we will be saved." Like others, they view the experience of Arab life as a road map that Turkey should follow in the historical process. Although they seem to reject the West, civil society, private education, globalization, which is the gain of Western heritage, does not hesitate to use pragmatist concepts. They are persistent and oppressive in their own worldview. So Turkey has become a conflicting area of these two extreme poles, as a result of efforts to modernize over the last two centuries. ==History==In the historical conjunctive, These mentalitys, which seem unaware of the focus of Abdülhamit, Itihat and Terakki and Mustafa Kemal (Muslims) on the sole goal, continue to transform Turkey in its own interest, and continue to handle national education for this transformation. This conflict is still going on and the emphasis on nationalism in education is becoming a word that hangs on the Ministry's sign every day. If we can think about the end of the 1800s and the beginning of the 1900s, we can easily see what these precious statesmen, who had served before us in Turkey, were aiming for what they were doing. The goal at that time was nothing more than to create a new nation from an empire that was struggling to fulfill the needs of the age and therefore was to fall apart. II. Abdulhamit tried it first for all the Ottoman nations, and it didn't happen. Then it was tested for Islamic elements within the borders of the Empire. I'm not going to address the historical tragedies that have arisen there. As a result, it didn't happen either. Indulgement and Terakki. The policies of Abdulhamit were initially adopted. However, when it seemed that these were not jobs, a nation based on the Turkish nation's national idea gained activity and validity, and Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, II. Abdulhamit was a historical actor who fulfilled the desire to save Abdulhamit (Abduhat Terakki) and its staffs. Saving Turkey, of course, wasn't just about gaining land for the country. Having grown manpower required real independence that ensures its continuity. The figures presented by the renowned Turkish expert Erik Jan Zürcher have given us an idea of the conditions of that period. According to this, the loss of manpower in Turkey's First World War was 3.5 million people. This is 20 times the size of France, considered to have suffered the greatest damage from the war. Besides being a country that had almost no manager, an engineer, no doctors, almost no qualified waiters, welders and electricians. To restore lost qualities would be the life span of a generation. In these circumstances, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk uncovered the miracle of Turkey with national education, national culture, faith in his own people, in what his own people could reveal. He applied Westernisation policies to promote the superior parts of Turkish human beings to humanity and to add them to its human heritage. Turkey has also taken care of the creation of national identity. Instead of running away from ease, he took care to adopt values that had cost the common human heritage. National education was considered part of this national identity. Therefore, national education continues to form one of Turkey's most important policy areas. I'm not trying to remind you of a time when I'm telling you this, but I'm just giving you these examples to understand the spirit of those times. Because it is not possible for us to evaluate our past without grasping the spirit of time or understanding the conditions of that time. Any evaluation without understanding the spirit of time is doomed to be anachronic, obsolete. Taking the headlines of the 1940s in light of today's world views is like wearing a watch in the films of Fatih's bodyguard, Kara Murat. As I said at the beginning of my speech, today's world is a world with a very different reality. In today's world, the size of land or population does not mean anything directly. Look, in 2011, in the world's most advanced economies, the Netherlands, which is the size of our Iconian province, produced a total value more than the economy of Turkey, which we boast about. When the Dutch are distributed to the Dutch, each of the non-nationals produced by the Netherlands, there is an income of around $50,000 each. Turkey, which is directly behind the Netherlands in terms of the total size of the cake of prosperity, is around $10,000 per person. A Dutch citizen has five times more material opportunities than a Turkish citizen. So how do we change these numbers, how do we improve them? By raising qualified people, of course. See, today in Turkey, a quarter of our population is under 15 years of age and in the early stages of their education. On the other hand, an average of 1,250,000 new students come to the age of higher education each year. Fifty percent of our population is under the age of thirty. This could be a tremendous advantage in today's world. Turkey has an artificial agenda today, which, unfortunately, our citizens are being kept away from these backward numbers with this artificial agenda. According to this artificial agenda, all problems are expected to be solved if our children who have reached the middle school level go directly to the 5, 6, 7th grade, if they go to imam orator schools. Unfortunately, all public opinion is stuck on this issue when it comes to education policies. However, education must be discussed as a whole and by including, of course, the Imam orator schools. A serious development in Turkish national education is unfortunately not in the 2012 budget, but in total 2.74. Now you're going to say that in Germany, it's 2.8, but when we think about Germany's $4 trillion in national income, we'll see how small our number is. So, what do we do? More resources for education, setting up the educational system with a modern understanding free from the ambitions of power, giving vocational education, higher education the importance needed, enhancing public schools as well as private schools, improving our education standards by investing in what are called improved indicators, is a priority and priority. Finally, I would like to say that our national education requires that the world be brought up as free individuals of its own identity, the citizens of the Republic of Turkey, to our great nation, and to you, its representatives, I offer my respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0194par0370	Thank you, Mr. Baydar. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Mehmet Erdogan, come in.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0195par0373	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action about the Law to Change the Law of Higher Education Institutions. I salute your high council. Now, the law that we're discussing envisions changing the name of the University of Mugla to the name of Muğla Koçman University and forming two new universities. Of course, when you say "Stitki Koçman," not everyone may know who Stutkuk Koçman is. Sitkı Koçman has made several investments in various parts of Mugla for many years, and is a very important businessman for Muğla, especially in the mining sector, when employment was really scarce. Gene had worked hard to establish the University of Muğla, and more than half of the campus of today's Mügla University was carried out by Sıtký Koçman, from his own sources and from his foundation later. In this regard, the change of the name of the University of Mughla to the University of Koçman will make all of our Muğla happy, and it will truly repay the labor of the people, a proper practice. On this occasion, I would like to thank each and every one of our friends who contributed during the meeting of this bill in the Commission. Of course, it is important to build new universities in our country, to improve the quality of education in our country. In this regard, I wish the new universities to be good luck to our country, to our nation. But, of course, the more important it is to build universities, the more important it is to develop universities. Today, because of its establishment, serious buildings, infrastructures, for use of universities and students such as the training building, dorms and labs, have been conducted within the campus, with resources passed to the University of Mugla so far. However, the resources passed on by Sıtkı Koçman were a negative contribution to the University of Mugla, and to the University of Muğla. The central administration, which has always been required to allocate a certain resource to universities, has already transferred enough resources here. In recent years, the foundation has failed to contribute enough to the University of Muğla, due to the fact that Sıtki Koçman himself is deceased and that the foundation has a bit of a setback in the economic power of the foundation. This has stalled the development of the rapidly developing University of Mughla. In order to close this gap, we believe that the overall budget for the University of Muğla must be reviewed and the source needed for the development of the University of Muğla must be removed from the general budget. We want to warn the government and the authorities about this. Again, there are 850,000 permanent populations in Mugla province, the summer population, the summer population, the summer, even the days when our counties -- like Bodrum, Marmaris, Fethiye -- have grown to over 1 million populations alone. But unfortunately, there is no research hospital in a resort, in a resort town, in such an important tourist destination, where such a dense population has arrived. Oddly enough, Müğla University Medical School is also open to education and students. Our students are trying to continue their medical training here by crashing a sign at a research hospital that has been built on this date and its buildings are very inadequate. To get rid of this primordiality, the University of Mugla must be admitted to a research hospital immediately. The quality of medical education here will now begin to be questioned if a research hospital cannot be given to Mughla immediately. Medical education -- of course, all education is important to each other, but according to other studies, it's a very important education for all of us, because we all put our lives in the hands of doctors. Doctors need full education, full learning degrees. And for that, we need a research hospital. That's not what's going on here, guys. So, from here, on this occasion, he wishes to have the Mughla taken to a research hospital, and the match has begun, hoping that everyone who plays well, without taking so much time, will win, and wish the results of the cup to be good for our country, and wish all of you the best for both teams. Have a good evening.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0196par0381	Thank you so much for your sensitive and understanding attitude. By the way, 1-0 Fenerbahçe, I'll let you know. Now, I'm gonna take a 20-minute break, and you'll see, but I'm not doing it. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PRODUCTION OF HIGH SCHOOL PRODUCTIONS TO CHANGE THE LAW ADADDE 1-28/3/1983, under the title of Article 25 of Higher Education Institutions Act 2809, and in its first joke, the declarations of the University of Muğla were changed in the form of the University of Koçman. On behalf of groups on the matter, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Nurettin Demir. Here you go, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0197par0390	Mr. President, I'm first celebrating Akhisarspor as a district MP, and as honorary MP, I'm celebrating Shanlıurfaspor. I wish you success in the Super League, and in the 1st League to Sanlıurfaspor. I have made a commitment with me to make changes to the Law on Higher Education Institutions Act 241 and to make changes to the Law on Higher Education Institutions Act, signed by 16 of my fellow MPs. First of all, I condemn the attack on our Acting Speaker, Mr. Coral Akshener, in the past few weeks, and I salute you all. Mr. Sıtki Koçman, a philanthropist who contributed a great deal to the University of Muğla, made the university public happy last week, especially the people of Mügla, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission. A number of times in his health and after his death, he was applied to the NGO to give the name to the university, but despite the insistence of the Senate of the University of Mughla, the OSK, unfortunately rejected these issues first, and then became involved in the National Education Commission. If the commission reaches 100 million liras in its contribution to give the name, we will give it. Some preconditions, such as the commission, had run. The change of name as a muğla MP has again been attached to the Commission during the law talks, which are referred to as ▪4+4+4. The proposal, which came back on the agenda with our insistence, was accepted last week at the National Education Commission. As the Republican People's Party Congresswoman, I thank and pay my respects to all those who have worked hard with his opposition and power. Dear MPs, it is a very important and humanitarian obligation to change the University of Muğla to the University of Koçman. This is a debt of loyalty to the late Sitkki Koçman of the University of Mugla, because the University of Mughla is now in the care of the great man, whose heart is full of human love, the great man, Mr. Koçman, who has been raised by our country. Because of his contribution to the development of the University of Mughla and the University of Mughla, I once again remember the late Sitki Koçman, who is a philanthropist, and may he rest in the light. One of the first mining engineers of the Republic era, Sıtki Davut Koçman, who invested in various regions of Mugla, helped the University of Muğla with nearly $55m in health. In addition to the university's physical infrastructure, dorms, faculty, sports facilities and housing have been completed through these benefits. Most of the buildings at the university compound were built by Sıtký Koçman and the foundation network established in his name. The foundation's contribution to the University of Muğla continues. By the way, I'd like to thank Mr. Alaittin Arpat, the Honorary Chairman of the Stikki Koçman Foundation, and all the members of the Board of Trustees who have passed away. I'd especially like to thank the University Senate and the rectors so far. Like the University of Mugla, Abant Izzet Baysal University has formed a third model as a state university with support for the state and foundation universities in our country. Abant Izzet really contributed a great deal to Turkish youth with the help of 262 million people to Baysal University. With the name of Mr. Koçman, described as the patron of the University of Muğla, the expected loyalty will be fulfilled, and the philanthropist's name will live in our University of Mugla. The University of Mugla was founded by Law 3837 in 1992, and was founded by the University of Science, Literature, Water Products, Faculty of Technical Education, Economics, and Social Sciences, Institute of Science and Social Sciences, Tourism Enterprises and Hotelism. The University of Mugla is a young and developing university founded in 1992, but it embraces institutional culture and strives to form institutional culture. But of course, with the government's obstructions, the Medical School Research Hospital has not been able to function. While I was in charge there, if the government had provided us with the support of the State Planning Agency, they would have had a hospital of research and practice today. Besides, I'm afraid the School of Architecture hasn't taken a student in 11 years. First of all, the land that was purchased in the Akyaka region was never built on it, and the location was not found. However, the issue of the school of Architecture and the school of Architecture will be resolved by the transfer of the historic and beautiful building, which is now known as the girls' vocational high school of the Anatolian Institute, which is also read by Mr. Süleyman Demirel, the 9th President. In addition, the Faculty of Confiscation must be opened to the 2012-2013 course and a student must be accepted. The opening of a faculty in Milas County must be accelerated. The boarding university of applied sciences has not been completed for many years. The university must be opened and finished as soon as possible. Therefore, the budget of the University of Muğla must be increased. Our beautiful Mugla is a tourist paradise with a historical, social and cultural background and the longest coast of Turkey. One of the tasks of universities is to serve the city and the region socially, culturally, scientifically. The Muğla University boasts that the most advanced research centre in the region is a discount to its lab and its project managers, while the other academics are doing research for free. The University of Muğla has completed or conducted a hundred and forty-six scientific research projects. The University of Muğla, which has valuable professors in its fields, has the power and knowledge to reveal all aspects of our beautiful province that have never been researched, nationally and internationally. We are on the road to becoming an educational city, along with tourism and agricultural areas, and this must be supported. The founder of our Republic, the greatest educator and chief teacher Ataturk, has dramatically expressed the importance of education through the proverb of education, that only a nation can live in a free, independent, glorious, and high society. The number of professors at the University of Muğla is 1,058. There are 11 universities of higher education, 3 institutes, 5 universities of higher education, 12 universities of applied sciences, and 16 institutes of study and practice at the University of Muğla. 146 chapters, 50 major sciences, 26,000 pre-licenses and licenses, provide training for 28,000 young people along with the master's degree. The key to our country and our people's survival in power and prosperity depends on the education of colleges of qualified and prestigious scientists. The prestigious scientist can grow at universities where science research and culture develop. Investments in universities are very important. Investment in scientific institutions, scientific staffs, is an investment in the future. With these feelings and thoughts, I thank you once again, to all those who have done their best to change the name of the University of Mugla to the University of Koçman.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0198par0410	Thank you, Mr. Iron. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm going to read the additive on the 2nd article: Articles 2-2809 are added to the following laws. The EK MADDE 145-In Istanbul was founded by the Merve Education and Culture Foundation in the name of Murat Hüdavendigar University, which has a public legal personality, in accordance with the provisions of the 2547 Higher Education Act on higher education institutions. This university is based on the presidency; A) from the University of Fen-Edebiyat, B) From the Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences, C) From the Faculty of Engineering and Architecture, From the Institute of Social Sciences, d) From the Institute of Sciences, It happens. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm reading Article 146 of Article 2 of the Frame: EK MADDE 146- A foundation university was founded in İstanbul under the name of Nistıtaş University, which has a public corporate personality, in accordance with the provisions of Higher Education and Culture Foundation 2547 of Higher Education. This university is based on the presidency; A) From the School of Art and Design, B) Faculty of Economics and Social Sciences, C) From Engineering-Building School, From the Institute of Social Sciences, d) From the Institute of Sciences, (e) From the Council of Ministers, dated 14/9/2009 and established by the 2009/15429 Council of Ministers' decision, which ended the legal personality with this Law, and was tied to the presidency from the Pointerstone University, It happens. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm going to read the additive to the 2nd article: EK MADDE 147- 21/12/2011 and the 2012 Central Management Budget Law of 6260, dated 2/9/1983 and referred to the University of Mugla Sitki Koçman, dated 13/12/83 on the Court of Law of Higher Educations 78. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. 3-2809. The student and lecturers who are still studying at the Engagemental University of applied sciences and the property of the Engagemental University are transferred to the University of Nişistite University, which ends its legal personality with this law. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The 47th rank of the higher education board, universities and Institutes of Higher Technology, has been changed as follows, as follows, as follows, of the Covenant No. 5018, dated 4-10/12/2003 and added to the Law on Public Financial Management and Control (II). ▪47) Mugla Sıtký Koçman University All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 5- This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0199par0449	Mr. President, we have a request to speak, Mr. Engin Özkoç.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0198par0450	No, he pulled back. I was called.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0199par0451	No, no. It's in the 5th article, sir, Mr. Engin Özkoch.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0198par0452	I was told, Mr. Hamzacebi, that's why we went on. Now that I've read the 5th article, since we haven't voted, are you going to talk about it?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0199par0454	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0200par0455	In Article 5?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0199par0456	Wait a second...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0201par0457	Now, I've had it read.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0199par0458	It can also be in the 6th article.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0201par0459	Well, may I present it now?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0199par0460	Sure.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0201par0461	Okay. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 6-The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Article 5 is accepted, Article 4 is adopted, Article 3 is adopted. Let's take a look at these. Now, on item 6...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0202par0467	Mr. President, there are 70 people in the House, there's no law like this!
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0201par0468	Then let's take a vacation. What am I supposed to do?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0202par0469	Look at that!
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0201par0470	It's agreed groups, dear! Mr. Tanal, don't yell at me, for God's sake. My brain's already turned. Yell over there. Okay.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0202par0471	I'm not yelling at you, Mr. President. I'm sorry about you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0201par0472	Now, this is the first time I've missed anything. Now, for the record, it's one thing to talk, but I take it personally. Mr. Tanal, okay? On Article 6, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Engin Ozkoc, MP of Sakarya, please come in.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0203par0476	Mr. President, there are six U.S. universities among the top 10 universities. What's with the 10 colleges? The best colleges in the world. There are four U.K. universities. Among the first 100 universities, 18 universities from the United Kingdom, 36 universities from the United States. The first 100 universities do not have universities from Turkey on the list. This ranking is organised based on academic, scientific contribution, the quality and work of academics. On a different list, based on the measurement of respectability, the Middle East Technical University is ranked number 96. My dear friends, a country needs a stance. A man has to have a stance, a nation has to have a stance, his country has to have a stance. If that country can stand up to what it says about its internal problems while it actually determines its stand against the outside, it will be greeted with dignity by others. We don't have a position on our own education, on our foreign policy, on our decisions, on our commitments in the country, I'm afraid. There are two basic points to this quality. First: the ideological approach of political power to prevent universal education norms. Second: to surrender education to free market rule. Dear friends, look, there's a view of the AKP's power that does what the United States of America says, and it's well understood by the public...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0204par0479	It's not a look, it's a fact.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0203par0480	...but the President of the United States says in a speech on April 21, 2012: "So we must do everything in our power to make high education accessible to every American. Education has never been more expensive. Students who get loans for university expenses graduate with $25,000 in debt. In America, my higher education should not be luxurious. This is an economic obligation that any family can have. That is why next week I will talk to the students about how we can visit universities all over the country and reduce the cost of education. This is the President of the United States of America, Mr. Obama. When does he say it? April 21, 2012. Who will I talk to about lowering taxes on students? Can you see the difference? So if you need to take this example, change your education system. When you say, change your education system, take a stand with Syria. When you say, take a stand with Syria, take a stand with Iraq. When you say, take a stand with Libya, take a stand with a sense of what free will, which universities do you want to build, what free will does Turkey have? The United States of America, which you've been so modeled at, has raised the world up for one soldier, and we've had to be mediators. Look, I'm showing you something: what's the date? Monday, August 17, 1992. How many years ago? Twenty years ago. What are they saying? Don't forget us, they say. Who? Our soldiers. So what? Kidnapped by terrorists. So, what does this soldier's brother say today? His brother who was kidnapped in Batman Sason twenty years ago was kidnapped by a senior sergeant-in-chief of the gendarmes on August 24, 1992. Batman had been assigned to Sason for two months. She was married for a year and three months pregnant when she was abducted. I haven't heard from him since he was kidnapped. I went to the Joint Chiefs, wrote to the Prime Minister. I've applied everywhere. I went to Eşref Bitlis, the chief of staff of the period. He won't let me go after the government soldier. But you should also see Apoh, and save your brother. But we couldn't. During the coalition administration, I wrote a letter to Mr. State Gardener. I was told that your brother may have been murdered. And after that, no one took care of us. Now my brother's kid is twenty years old, he's in college. He asks, "What peace of mind am I going to send this to the army? So I'm asking you, what kind of comfortable country did we leave for our college students? If today, under what supervision, which ideological understanding of foundation universities are not established, if Turkey does not have a stand against the world, if this country has no understanding of its own military, if this country's military has been in the hands of terrorists for 20 years and the Prime Minister of this country is silent, what students are we going to teach, raise, and be able to be in this country as free children of Turkey? Are we talking about the education law? Are we talking 4+4+4? Are we talking about colleges to build? Are we talking about Turkey's high opinion of the outside world with the laws in Turkey? This is what we do, dear friends: Caniklioğlu just called from this stand...
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0205par0484	Canic.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0206par0485	Who the hell is Caniklioğlu?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0203par0486	Look who it is, I'll tell you in a little while, and you'll find out. He said: "This nation voted for us. Are you against the will of this nation? I say to you, "This nation has voted for you, but you make the nation flip over and turn over. One day, these people will learn who you voted for, who didn't save their children from terrorists, who had their students beaten in the squares, who had their children killed in the mines, under the rubble, who didn't value the future of his own country.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0207par0488	Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0203par0489	I'm yelling for these people, I'm speaking for these people on this stand. If you can't handle it, you'll be waiting for the day when you'll answer this nation as a party of those who flip over. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-16sit05spe0208par0492	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the entire bill to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck, good luck. Of İstanbul MP Mehmet Domaç and Malatya MP Öznur Çarik and 9 MPs; Law on Pharmaceuticals and Pharmaceuticals; Law on Drugs and Drug Code on Murakabes; Minister of Law on Drugs; Congressman of Malatya Öznur Çuk and 11 MPs; Free Special and Giresun MP Selahattin Karaahmetoğlu; Minister Mesut Dedeoglu and Militarian Movement Party MP Mehmet Şandir; 2 Members of Parliament of the Malatya MP Öznur Çuk and 11 MPs; Free Privates and Giresun MP Selahattin Karaahmetoglu; We will begin negotiations with the Constitutional Committee on Family Affairs and Social Affairs. Commission? No. It's been postponed. On Thursday (May 17th 2012), according to the decision taken, 14th, to discuss other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with the draft and proposals of the law. I'm closing the meeting at 00. I wish you a good evening.
