tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three members of parliament off the agenda, their talking time is five minutes each. The government can answer these talks, the government's response time is 20 minutes. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Nevzat Pakdil, the deputy of Kahramanmarash, who asked about the Neonazi murders in Germany. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you are, Mr. Pakdil.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all. One of the inevitable consequences of industrialisation is the migration of international labor force. Given the fact that our country is also an immigrant country, it is known that we have citizens living abroad, along with these citizens, having various problems. In particular, the recent Neonazi murders against our citizens living in Germany have been examined with a different scale of what size these problems can reach. First of all, I would like to point out that there is no moral, religious, or political explanation for the attempt on human life.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0003par0012	Mr. President, there's too much noise.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0004par0013	Guys, there's a lot of noise, so let's hear it in peace and quiet.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0002par0014	Between 2000-2006, eight of our citizens were killed, known as the Neonazi serial killings. In connection with these murders committed by the National Socialist underground organization, two of the three members of the terrorist organization were found dead in a caravan by committing suicide, but after the members of the organization had heard the police radio before committing suicide, they had instructed the other member of the organization, the female terrorist, to destroy the evidence, the 35-year-old terrorist who was taken into custody. The fact that the perpetrators of the murders since 2000 have not been caught reveals the insincerity and seriousness of the German authorities, and a large part of the Turks living in Germany believe such killings will continue. In connection with these killings, between 21 February and 24 February 2012, we had a series of visits and talks in Germany as the Human Rights Commission of the Turkish Parliament, in order to investigate the Neonazi killings in Germany and support our citizens. On the first day of our talks, we had talks with the Federal Parliament Neonazi Murder Research Commission, the Federal Government's Human Rights Commissioner, the government and the ombudsman appointed as mediators of their families, and then with the ministers of the Constitutional Court for those who lost their lives in racist Neonazi terror, and then with Chancellor Merkel, Mr. Merkel, the President of the Federal Parliament, and the president of the Constitutional Court. In honor of the families of our citizens who lost their lives in these murders, a dinner was held at the Turkish House, and Mr. Gauck of the President gave a speech at this dinner. At this meeting, the victims were also interviewed one by one by one with their families. In these talks, it was reported that German security forces, who were on the scene of the murders, treated our citizens as criminals, and were held in custody for ten or twelve hours without any justification after the murder. In addition to these talks, a meeting was held with representatives of the Turkish community at the Ambassador's residence. As our Prime Minister has expressed in events from Turkey to Europe on the basis of the 50th year of migration, they have stressed that our Turkish citizens living abroad are no longer unclaimed, that our citizens will defend their rights and laws to the end everywhere, and that our citizens, especially the third and fourth generation, will not give up their own faith, language and cultural values. In the sequel of his statement, Mr. Prime Minister, it is our right to ask and question how many Turks have benefited from the equality of opportunity, equal participation, and the ability to live together with the third and fourth generation of German citizens who arrived as visiting workers 50 years ago in Germany today. They have once again explained to the public how wrong it is to look at them as if they were a threat to Muslims and our citizens living in Germany in private after the September 11th attacks. As a government, citizens living abroad should live in harmony with their own work and with different cultures and groups, and our Turkish immigrant citizens, as stated in our Constitution, have been endeavored to develop policies that embrace and integrate our citizens who have been abandoned abroad and are co-ordinated with the main country. We, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the government of these killings, will follow you to the end of the matter, knowingly and designed...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0005par0019	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0002par0020	...that the perpetrators of these murders should be arrested and brought to trial. On behalf of the Turkish nation, I want to make it clear that we will be following the issue at every level. The fact that the perpetrators of these murders were not caught or caught is a grave flaw in the German security forces and the German judiciary.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0005par0021	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0002par0022	We hope that the perpetrators of these murders will be arrested and brought to trial. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0006par0025	Mr. President, one day you can take that stand too, remember!
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0007par0026	Mr. President, the former Deputy Speaker of Parliament and Deputy Heromarash, I invite you to join us in two more minutes, Mr. President. No privileges at all?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0008par0027	You could have tolerated the Vice President for a minute, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0006par0028	If only you'd taken away from us, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0009par0029	We'll listen next time, sir. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Nüğde MP Doğan Şafak (Nüğde) who wants to talk about Niğde's problems. Here you go, Mr. Dawn.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0010par0034	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book promise on behalf of myself regarding the problems of our province in Niğde. Dear lawmakers have been waiting for years to resolve Niğde's problems. In 1996, the football-type airport, which began to be built in the Emen Plain of Niğde, has not been finished for 16 years. Right now, the airport's construction sign and fences have been ripped off, the land has become a grazing ground for animals, an unfinished airport neglect area. In the period of Ecevit's government, the work of the Pozanti-Niğde-Ankara highway, which has been completed most of its tunnel, has been carried out in this period of government. The people of the Farm have been waiting for years for the completion of the road to Tepeköy-Couple. Also, the Possum-Catch Road must be completed at once. At the University of Niğde, 13,913 students receive education and training. Unfortunately, 1,500 students couldn't find a home, so they didn't freeze or register their records. There are only 4,000 beds in our province. Most of the students face housing problems. In 1999, the customs office in our province was shut down. The closure of this office has damaged exporters both financially and spiritually. The customs office must be reopened in the mining sector and in our province, which is open to development in agriculture. The Nüğde-Bor Sugar Factory is about to be sold. The number of workers and officers who work here is 583. The sugar produced is 49,550 tons, and the sugar beets produced are 410,000 tons. On average, around 4,500 sugar beets farmers make a living selling products to the sugar factory. Other than that, about 1,500 of our movers make a living in this sector by shipping sugar beets again. This added value to the region's economy would be lost in the privatisation of the two-and-a-half trillion-profit factory. The population has fallen from 38,000 to 325k due to unemployment in our country, which has severe problems in agriculture. In Turkey, 20 per cent of 4.5 million tonnes of potatoes, 20 per cent of potato production is happening in Nigde, although the potato manufacturer faces hunger. Because of electricity debts, the execution is at the citizens' door. The MEDAS lawyers are having a seizure with the gendarmes, and hundreds of people are being brought to Nüğde Closed Prison to the concentration camp because they can't pay their debts. Potatoes cost 60 cents, now there are no buyers for 300 cents. 200,000 tonnes of the 800,000 tonnes of potato products were frozen, and the government did not pay the farmer for the disaster he had to pay. Other than that, most of the 600,000-ton potatoes left in Niğde district alone are now left to rot in the warehouses, a loss of close to 360 trillion economics. This puts Niğde's business in a difficult position. The same is true in Nevşehir, Aksaray, and Incontinence. The AKP government ignores these facts. Trillions of livestock loans have been looted by power supporters, and livestock loans haven't reached the right address. Instead of our farmer, who became an animal farmer, these loans were given to AKP's general and municipal council members. The Akkaya Dam, which is located between Niğde and Bor district, has been declared an internationally important wet area, and is used for agricultural irrigation, poses a significant threat to human health due to pollution. In 1992, almost 85 percent of our citizens' land was registered for the treasure, as a result of the break-in and mistreatment of the city's drinking grounds. That's why it's smuggled in and out of the peasant field. The district of Çamarır is looking for attention from the government of Badememre Bulanık Pond and the Ulukish and Badger Pond, which has not ended in ten years. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0011par0047	Thank you, Mr. Dawn.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0012par0048	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0011par0049	You want to answer?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0012par0050	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0011par0051	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0012par0053	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, and I have been promised to answer Mr. Doğan Şafah....to the non-responsive speech of Nüğde MP. I salute you all. First of all, let me brief you on the investments in Niğde. So Nigde actually signed off on all major investments during our administration. Actually, I'll tell you a few of these. First of all, we think it's very important to water it in Niğde. During our administration, we farmed 14 grand and 14.900 acres by the end of last year. We've also done a lot of river reforms. Other than that, many irrigation ponds were completed in Bor and Niğde. Also, there was a problem with drinking water in Niğde, the arsenic problem. Our ministry has set up a highly advanced water treatment facility to solve this arsenic problem. This was put into business last year. So a facility was built to clean water at 65 litres per second, to provide clean water to Niğde, and to serve our Niğde. Also, we've opened the Bor Bostanese Pond and watering it completely, watering 3,060 acres. We've finished watering the Great Tree Pond, watering 5,940 acres. Altunhisar Pond regeneration of the reserve area, we've restored the irrigation grid for 2.740 decelerations. The construction of the Greenburch Dam and derevulation facilities is under way. Right now, Congressman, there's a 50 percent chance this is happening, hopefully we'll finish it soon, and I'll help myself. The construction of the Niğde gardens continues. This will be completed at 4,500 per cent of the new water plant, as well as 4,800 per cent renovation. I want to talk about the ponds you guys were talking about. Altunhisar Pond is a channel of derivation, so hopefully we'll do that. Farm Free Pond watering, 2,200 acres watering, we're bidding this year. We've finished 90 percent of this, 1,960 per cent, and we'll finish all of this this year, Congressman. We've been asked to make three river reforms regarding the extremism. We also started river reforms in the central town of Azatlı, Güllüce Chest Creek, Piner Eyneli village, and the town of Silvers in the center, and we'll finish this year. We also planned nine ponds and watering. The building of these, the watering of the Boasting Pond in Ulukish. Other than that, I'll give you the names of the ponds that have been planned and done with the project: Watering the Farm Free Pond in Niğde, watering the Dagger's Pond and watering the Dagger in the center, watering the Handeresi pond in the Greatlands, watering the Chalet in the Piner, watering the Guide Pond in Borky, watering the Paganite in the Farm, and watering the Steedards Bademdare Pond and watering the Central Haciabdullah Lake and watering. Their planning and projects are accelerating, his money is ready, and when his projects are finished, we'll continue to build them, I'll tell you that. Of course, in order to protect Niğde from the extremities, Mr. Deputy, we've taken a very big step. Niğde is very poor in the forest, but 8 per cent of it is forested. In order to increase that, between 2003 and 2011 -- look, I'm giving you the exact number -- we had 27 million saplings working on 315,280 acres and meeting with land. In addition, between 2008 and 2012, work was planned for 121,500 per cent of land. Two forest resorts have been set up. In addition, our OSCE General Directorate was supporting us, and now the Director-General of the Forest will support us. Other than that, our meteorological General Directorate has set up two automated weather observatorys there, Nüğde and Ulukış. And they demanded of him, and I commanded him to be established this year. Also, you know, in the past period of the Ministry of the Environment, the municipalities in Nigde have been given real support for both solid waste and waste treatment facilities -- a solid waste disposal facility in centrally -- for the choice of its location, for the preparation of solid waste projects, for financial support. By the end of last year, the Ministry of Environmental Forest sent total environmental support to our 6 million 395,583 TL Niğde. Also, Bor, Edikli, Sazlı, and Nigde sent special solid waste disposal facilities to the Regular Stable Storage Company. Of course, not only do we invest, but also -- Mr. Health Minister here, they'll tell you themselves -- 38 million euros invested. The Bor Physics Treatment and Rehab Centre was also available at the Children's Hospital, Piner Integrated County Hospital, nine health clinics and one health centre in Niğde. The Ministry of National Education completed 766 new classrooms and sent 4,375 computers to schools. Other than that, he sent some $8 million from his conditional cash transfer to our children there for support to study. Other than that, our Ministry of Transport -- look, you mentioned -- has written an epic in Niğde, has made unprecedented investments. Look, I'll give you the number. There's no last year's number, and by the end of 2009, I'm talking about the money the Ministry of Transport spent on the province of Niğde: $1 billion 89 million,358,968. So now, with this year, I'm guessing it's going to be over $1.3 billion, or 1.3 quadrillion. The road was divided 173 kilometers, until the end of last year. Plus, there's been a lot of asphalt repairs and stuff. TOKI times are epic in Niğde. 2,560 dwellings are being built, 90 per cent finished. You mentioned the agricultural industry. The agricultural sector also has 155 million dollars in support by the end of last year. I don't have the numbers from last year. Look, 8 plant processing and packing facilities, 4 animal processing-packing facilities, 9 agricultural products storage projects have been implemented, 1 irrigation system equipment, 12 bales and silica machines, two cold transport vehicles have been taken. Now, what you're saying is that he's been given to We're not looking for their I.D. So it would be extremely wrong to make such a claim, especially if he had taken it, and so on and so forth. In order to bring services to the villages, our Niğde (Nicde) was given more than 35 million TL. You know, there's almost no village without drinking water, supported by BELDES. Now, as for the potato... now, in my hometown, there's a lot of potatoes being planted -- Niğde, Nevşehir, Afyonkarahisar -- but last year, you know, we met the same problem in 2011, but at that time we had to gather all the potato makers in Niğde, Afyonkarahisar, Nevşehir, even in Ankara to figure out how to find a solution. In fact, in the beginning of last year, there were 11 cents, and if you remember later, the potato was up to almost a dollar, but this year -- of course, because it was worth money -- there were too many plantings. And unfortunately, some potatoes are frozen on winter terms. Of course, about that, you know, the insurance system works, and there will also be the necessary support. I've been keeping an eye on the potato thing. Furthermore, we have instructed our friends about this Akkaya Dam, meaning that Akkaya Dam has indeed been contaminated. I'll take that. In fact, our Nüğde MPs have asked me for an appointment here today, and you're welcome to do this problem at Akkaya Dam -- it's not a new thing, it's the problem of years -- together, anyway. And to do that, and I even said to my Undersecretary last night that we should take responsibility for Akkaya Dam, as much as it concerns a lot of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, but in the end I said, "Let's solve this Akkaya issue of Niğde. If you guys have any advice, we'd be happy to do so. We also need problems with the cadastro, whether it's about the forest or the piner, please give it to us, but if it's about the tapus cadastro, which is which island, which is which pafta, you didn't give it to me, we'll solve it together, hopefully, if we can solve it together, if we don't have a legal manifold. I pay all my respects. I'd also like to thank our congressman, Doğan Günfak, for giving me such an opportunity to explain. Also, our Nüğde MPs are here, and they follow almost every day about Niğde. Not only are they following me here, but they send me messages almost every day with e-mail messages, but whatever we do for Niğde really suits everything. I hereby salute you all, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0013par0075	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, who asked for a statement about the state of the senior members of the Ministry of Health. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0014par0080	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have been promised to step on a law freak and inform our House, and I salute your grand delegation. While he is an expert in the Turkish Armed Forces, his family is concerned about their future, it is the subject of today's conversation with our friends, who are serving in other public institutions to leave their post and provide their child support. Law No. 6000 was issued by the 23rd Term Assembly, where thousands of experts who have resigned have submitted petitions to public institutions, and the Ministry of Health was one of them. These friends have applied for second term suspension for a 100-strong quota reserved by the Ministry of Health for specialists. Their application was made online, and the drawing of the lottery was notarized. Let not everyone destroy our state, our nation, and not leave us without it. The State Chief of Staff opposed this appointment. Of the total 243 people appointed, members of the Turkish Armed Forces, who applied to the special staff's quota of experts, have been singled out, and others have begun their duties. You can verify this from the Office of Health and Staff's official website, dear friends. Then what happened? Adeta filed a lawsuit to search 80 private executive courts for their rights, separated as a stepchild. Once again, it was seen after this date, when the law and AKP made the country a home of injustices. First, the court finds the applications justified, and ten months ago, friends began their duties with a court order. The State Chief of Staff has brought the case to the State Attorney's office for appeal. 12th District Attorney. The first decision of his apartment was a decision that proved these friends right. With the optimistic weather, some friends got married, married ones took out a loan from banks, bought a house, borrowed a car, believed they could afford it. But it's as if they didn't know the law when they closed the first case, and then they found out, just, yeah, just 40 days later, that's what happened. His apartment changed its mind, and the last four cases that came to him began to decide against these friends. What had changed, the legislation had changed? No. The terms of employment have changed? No. Even the judges hadn't changed, only the judges who had handled the case had changed their views. How it happened, how it ended, if it was seen to your eyes, it was reported to these friends that they had been laid off and had to pay their wages back on the decisions that came against you only 40 days later. In fact, the decision was to stop the execution, so, as you know, it's a compromise. The administration started firing as if they were taking orders from somewhere, throwing up their poison. It's dark for these people tomorrow, they don't know what to do. Without a job, without money, without a stamp, they're waiting for the ultimate decision in this cold. You know how they say that he wouldn't do what the government does to a citizen? What kind of cruelty is that? Is that called justice? Dear lawmakers, in our country, they change in forty days, judges change their minds, don't you think there's an injury somewhere, or is that what you understand about the rule of law? The State Chief of Staff is objecting to the court on grounds of Law 6000, and on the other hand, he is writing to these friends that you are not subject to Law 6000. I have all these articles, my friends. You're saying that 80 or 100 people are involved. Friends, are we going to stand by and watch the law get so vulgar? Aren't you the ones who say, "Let the people live so the state can live?" Besides, there are thousands of such unfair practices and law enforcement in our country, which you've ruled for ten years. To resolve this concrete issue, the government must resolve this conflict between its institutions. People trapped between the State Chief of Staff, the Health Department and the State Department, and who are looking for a way out of the House when they don't know what to do... come on, show your government is the resolving authority, show that your party's interest in justice has nothing to do with name. The State Chief of Staff and the Ministry of Health will withdraw their cases mutually, whether these friends will be employed in their former institutions or new institutions. Otherwise, a man's crying will also shed tears on his national conscience, and I want to make it known that it will be in the hands of God and in the consciences that your government will be responsible, and I salute the great assembly.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0015par0091	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0016par0094	Mr. President, dear members of our Council, I stand before you to respond to a speech made just before me regarding the reassignment of these special sergeants after their resignation. Actually, when our congressman got here, I didn't think much of applying to our Speaker for a speech because it would point to an important matter, and I thought we'd consider it. For this reason, I have taken the oath that I believe you have brought up the sensitiveness of our Dear Congressman, because of his own sensitivity, in fact, I think our Dear Congressman has made the words that should not be taken from this bench. That's a little hurtful. Now, as if the administration had received instructions from somewhere, vomiting its poison... the expression, my dear Congressman, is not very appropriate.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0017par0097	I meant the President of State Staff, not you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0016par0098	He wouldn't do that to a citizen, even if he were a government employee or a government citizen under the government's orders. These are not really the words of this House.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0017par0099	Sir, you take care of this.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0016par0100	Now, I'd like to point out that the issue has obviously become a legal problem and a matter that is intended to be resolved. After all, we've been complaining about the practices of the law from time to time, and it's possible that our esteemed congressman is also complaining about this practice. A decision was made, a decision was made, and then another decision was made. Let's file this complaint, but when we file this complaint... In fact, let's find another solution. I respect his proposal very much, and I'd like to express it. As a matter of fact, I'm going to talk to the State Staff and see if we can find a solution to the matter by meeting with our Secretary of State, who is in charge of State Staff, and how we can find a solution, and I'm going to work on it after this talk, and our Dear Congressman can be sure of that. But it's clear that we all have to abide by the decisions made by the law; we may not like them, we may not want them, and then we follow them. Especially the decisions made by the administration courts or the State Department, you know, the administration has to comply within a month. Now, it's a little hurtful to describe it in these terms, in these sentences. It's just that...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0018par0103	Sir, the cease-and-desist decision, the decision to stop the execution, it's not the original decision.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0016par0104	Now, Mr. Congressman, when I warn you from there, maybe our citizens don't hear her voice, but I hear her, I answer. Now let our citizens know what I'm responding to. And you have to abide by the decision to stop the execution, which is well-known.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0018par0106	There are many specimens, sir, many examples, believe me.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0016par0107	No, there's no precedent. If the administration doesn't comply with the decision to stop the execution, the investigation into the administration is being launched, decisions on the administration are being made. Many of our bureaucrats have been punished for the decision to stop running because they've had one day, because they've had other cases to walk on, because they're one day late. Therefore, we must abide by the decisions made by the judgment. I don't think we should express it, like throwing up the poison or inflicting torture because we followed the judgment. But I thank him for this warning from our esteemed congressman. Could there be any other solution to the matter, I'll work with my dear Minister of State Staff, my friend, and I'll look for a solution. I'd like to thank our congressman again. I salute your High Council.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0019par0111	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Two of our friends are in the system, so I'll give you my word in a row. Mr. Ozkes...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0020par0116	Mr. President, dear friends, a thousand and four hundred years ago, even our beloved Prophet Muhammad could be criticized. But today's Reverends can't tolerate any criticism. Mr. Saven didn't make me talk yesterday. Mr. Sable is only strong with the AKP people, and he is not firm with the opposition. Mr. Secret is running the General Assembly with the advice of the AKP. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is not the AKP's farm. In the High Council, it says that authority belongs to the nation unconditionally. With the pressure of the AKP people, I condemn Mr. Secret, who has not made me speak. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0019par0118	Thank you, Mr. Ozkes. Yesterday, you had a mutual meeting with the Minister. I've got the paperwork. I explained it to you. In those reports, you were superior in sharpness between your words and the words of the Minister. I didn't promise you because I came to that conclusion, and according to the relevant clause, I have the authority. Thank you. Now, Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0021par0122	Mr. President, you're talking to yourself, you're hearing yourself, and then you're not giving me a say.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0019par0123	But if you make a unilateral accusation, of course you'll get your answer.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0021par0124	You don't make me talk.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0019par0125	But I have as much right to answer what you say to me as you do. I am ruling this House impartially, and so I claim.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0021par0126	You're leading by side, sir. You're leading side by side.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0019par0127	I also reminded you of the relevant substance. There's nothing else I can do. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please take your seat.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0021par0130	You're leading side by side.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0019par0131	Mr. Öğüt, I give you my word now. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0022par0134	Mr. President, since the pilot's application began in Düzce, 2005, seven years have passed since the start of the family medicine system in Istanbul on 1 November 2010, there is still no stable family physician for nearly 100,000 citizens. I want to give you the number of empty units in the last few places: 72 units in the 12th placement announcement; 78 in the 13th placement; 68 in the 14th placement. Nearly half of the units reported in these announcements were filled with transplants, replacements, or temporary assignments, while about half of them were repeatedly reported, but they could not be filled. Thirty-six of the 78 units, which were announced at the end of the 13th placement, were not filled out from 68 units in the 14th. Despite repeated announcements, do you intend to make positive discrimination regarding the units that cannot be filled and sometimes cause the entire Virtual Family Health Center to be emptied? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0023par0137	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Congressmans, no more words. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis that I'm going to make you read and know. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Mr. Cemil Cicek, chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, is taking an official visit to Poland from 12 March 2012 to 12 March 2012 with a Parliamentary delegation to respond to the invitation of Polish Parliament Speaker Ewa Kopacz, dated 28 February 2012 and 71. Accepted in combination. 2 / 1 In accordance with the article, the names reported by the Political Party Groups to form our delegation are submitted to the information of the General Assembly. 1. Mehmet Necati Çetinkaya [[Adana]] 2. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] 3. Mine Leuk White [[Diyarbakır]] 4. Golden Tan [[Diyarbakır]] 5. Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research; I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Constitution is 98th and 104th, and 105th, in order to determine the environmental damage and measures of all thermal power plants still operating in our country, particularly the Afşin-Elbia thermal plant in the first place. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of Parliamentary Research. In recent years, developing countries have shown rapid economic growth and have doubled their energy consumption. The countries are resorting to different production techniques, as much as their resources can afford to meet their growing energy needs. Most of the world's energy needs are driven by fossil fuel sources, hydropower, nuclear plants, solar and wind power plants. The 1970s were years when the growing need for energy was increasing, and Turkey was moved to thermal plants in these years because of its quickness and cheapness and easy access to foreign credit sources. In those years, thermal power plants quickly began to be built in Turkey and in the world, as well as in Turkey, because of the lack of adequate knowledge and therefore public sensitivity. Many environmental problems, which have never appeared in their projects during their production, have entered the agenda of Turkey with thermal plants. The air pollution of fossil-fueled thermal plants, which have a high use share, has a negative impact on the ecological balance. While coal - based thermal plants' ashes are a problem as waste, it is also capable of maintaining its harmful influence in underground waters as a result of its storage on the soil, as a result of harmful compounds in the ash leaking into the soil with rainwater. Other environmental problems have also been created for mining and transport activities necessary for thermal plants. Despite all these negative effects, coal remains a preferred resource in energy production. In view of this fact, new technologies should be installed that will allow the current thermal plants to be controlled and friendlyly operated with their environment. The Afşin-Elbia thermal plant is also one of Turkey's major plants, which measure and create environmental pollution, and in the face of environmental problems, local, official and private organisations have made unsanitary assessments, not just locals. The impact of human, soil, water, air and plants around the plant has reached significant stages of thermal plant chimney gas emissions, which have been created without consideration for damage to the environment to assess the low-quality lignite reserve around Afşin-Elbia, and the volatile ash left irresponsiblely around the plant. The report by Gazi University reported that nearly 2.5 times more radioactive substances were released from the plant every year than the Chernobyl accident, and that the three-man professors from Çukurova University reported that there could be mass deaths in the region if such ashes and smoke continue to be thrown into the air. However, due to the fact that we have to evaluate our national resources and other energy sources, coal is the most potential energy source available to us, especially for the use of lignites to make the environment the least pollutants, it needs to be studied, developed, and adapted to the conditions of the country. Because of the wrong field and wrong technology, the losses of the Afshin-Elbistan Termik Operator (human, soil, water, air and plants) that have been constantly damaging all its surrounding beings (human, water, and plants) must be reduced to minimal. The Constitution is 98. Your underwear is 104 and 105. We propose and propose the establishment of a Parliamentary Research Commission to investigate the environmental damage done by all the thermal power plants in Turkey, particularly the Afşin Elbistan thermal plant, and to determine the measures needed to be taken. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Tekirdağ]] 13) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Erzurum]] 16) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 20) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kastamon]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Despite the abundance of calcite production, raw materials and reserves in the mining industry in our country, the motive has not reached the required level. Calcite producers operating in the sector express the need for the right technical information and support of producers to draw the standard of Turkish calcite to international standards. In order to increase production in our country and to find its rightful place in the world markets, the Constitution's 98th and TBMN Institution is 104. And according to Article 105, we propose and propose that Parliamentary Research be opened. After calcite, chemical structure CaC03, and microsized grinding, first, paint, paper, plastic, etc. In many sectors, whiteness is a filling and additive that is used as much as possible because of its cheapness and properties. Since the calcite is one of the minerals that is least harmful to the environment, in many foreign countries it is mixed to enrich the soil and used to reduce the acidity of contaminated lakes. In the Mining Sector Special Development Commission Report, which the State Planning Agency has prepared under its 8th annual Development Plan; The calcite, which is worth 3-5 dollars per ton (US Dollars) in January, reaches 40 to $200 a ton after it is shredded and bagged. The contribution per ton is higher than cement. It must be produced in high tonnages and encouraged to export to Europe and nearby countries. As should be done in all mining exports in this incentive, it is imperative that our producer use electricity at the prices of rival countries, to fill our ports with the capacity to load mines, to get a lower price from other unit sales prices from higher export goods. Calcite is the main entry in many of its main industries, and it has an effect on economic, environmental health enhancer (includes fewer cellulose use in the paper sector) because it allows very expensive pigments such as titanium dioxide to be used less. Without a foreign or domestic distinction in the sector; • Obstruction of monopoly, • Co-ordination of domestic prices and world prices of foreign institutions, • Taking advantage of the gaps of the Mining Law and preventing a much greater reserve from being blocked (even though this is common, the calcite reserves may remain in the monopoly of several organisations). It's necessary. Current institutions are already operating at half capacity. So there's a 50% surplus. This problem can be solved through export. Otherwise, the sale of corporations, closing down, would be inevitable. Despite the declaration of views, sector representatives have expressed that there is no improvement in these matters. Calcite producers, low currency values, high energy, logistics costs, qualified staff shortages, etc. They demand that current railways be rehabilitated to the maximum use of naval transport, adding that problems are slowing down sectoral development, that production should be considered first, that energy costs should be taken to the lowest possible level of efficiency in the production area, and that energy costs should be applied to a special description of international standards for energy. Parliamentary Research must be opened in order to determine the measures to be taken to address the above-resolved problems. [[Mersin]] [[Kütahya]] [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kastamon]] [[Mughle]] 8) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Inconceived]] [[Erzurum]] [[Antalya]] 19) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With electricity debts used by our farmers for irrigation, the Constitution of the 98th century has been established in an effort to determine the measures to resolve problems by doing research on the monthly invoice launched against this section again. And the TBMM Charter 104 and 105. In accordance with the clause, we respectfully request and demand the opening of a parliamentary investigation. The economic crisis in our country continues by increasing its impact on all parts of society, the crisis has shown the most impact on social unemployment. According to the latest data from the Turkish Statistical Institution, the unemployment rate in our country has increased yearly to 3,71,000 people. Production's down, industry's down. Because of the closing factory and the shrinking and closing of businesses, employment has been reduced. New tradesmen are added to our tradesmen who have had to shut down for days without having to do anything. The following loans have increased, and workers, civil servants, pensioners, and tradespeople have become unable to pay their loans, such as housing, transportation and need. One of the most affected by the economic crisis that has lasted for seven years has been the farmer's division. In this sector, the yield has dropped, the inputs have increased. Our farmers couldn't put fertilizer and medicine in their fields. Our farmers' debts, such as diesel, fertilizer, and electricity, have grown exponentially every year. Institutions such as the bank, agriculture loans and Medaş have blacklisted farmers. Our farmers, who could not afford their products due to wrong government policies and could not get their labors paid, postponed their debts and failed to pay them back every year. The interest added to the principal has doubled and tripled the debt of our farmers. Our farmers, who are burdened with a large debt, have increased to $2.5 billion in electricity debt, a $1 billion delay interest, only for irrigation. There are 2,500 irrigation co-operatives in 27 countries across the country. Almost all of these cooperatives have unpaid electricity debts. Due to unpayable electricity debts, the executions launched against our farmers increased, while dozens of irrigation co-ops were put in prison for failing to pay the irrigation debts they vouched for. The policies that will prevent our farmers from foreclosure and imprisonment as pioneers of production and employment must be carried out immediately. There has been a great expectation of farming. It's like our farmers' eyes and ears have been turned into the Great National Assembly of Turkey. In our country, agriculture is still higher than industry. Work in agriculture is 23.7 per cent, while employment in industry is 21 per cent. In contrast, there are incentives by the government, such as investment reductions in industry and insurance premiums, while there are still no reductions in the basic inputs of the agricultural sector, such as fertilizer, diesel and electricity, which provide more jobs than industry. Our farmers, who have yet to pay off their old power debts and seek a way to pay, are now faced with the application of electricity bill every month. This practice will bring even greater distress to our farmers, who have earned a periodary income. Instead of paying a monthly bill, our farmers want an arrangement on paying a two-term bill. Therefore, the Constitution, 98, has been established to investigate the application of the monthly invoice for this section again with electricity debts used by our farmers for irrigation. And the TBMM subcommittee 104 and 105. A Parliamentary Research Commission shall be established under the clause. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Kastamon]] [[Kayseri]] [[Manisa]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 17) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Erzurum]] [[Manisa]] 21) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 22) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] Research motions have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, the Council of Counsellors has a proposal that I will have read and process and submit to your votes: At a meeting Wednesday (7/3/2012) of the advisory council, the following proposals were approved by the General Assembly. Justice and Development Party Group Republican People's Party Group Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The adoption of the 110th and 118th legislature of the Agenda's Law Bills and Proposals and Other Jobs from the Commissions to the 3rd and 4th place of the Agenda, in the ranks of 74th and 79th. As the General Assembly continues to work until talks on the 118-tier bill in its 08/03/2012 merger Thursday, It's recommended. Anybody want a word on the counseling board proposal? No. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Adıyaman MP Mehmet Metiner has been nominated for the 1 membership of the Justice and Development Party Group, which is empty in the Human Rights Review Commission. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Members of parliament, under the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, we move on to the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the second place, Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi, MP of the Republican People's Party Group Group Chair Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, Minister of the Law on Protection of Women in the 2nd place of Family Protection and Violence Against Women, MP of Antalya Georgian MP Gürkut Acar, Minister of Civil Law and Family Protection, Minister of Law on the Protection of the Family, İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel. We are not prepared to negotiate with the Turkish Penal Code on the Protection of 4320, the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law and the Law on the Protection of the Law of the Family; We are not prepared to negotiate any amendments to the Law on the Law of the Law; We are not prepared to be held by the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of Women. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been printed and distributed in 181 rows. Members of parliament, according to the decision adopted, this bill will be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Ruzzar Demirel, Eskişehir MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, who wants to speak on the whole bill. Mr. Ironel, please. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes. (x) 181 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0024par0383	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. But I want to express a system. I'm truly ashamed that such a law is being discussed in a session of violence against women, in the first place, by our women's lawmakers being insensitive and indifferent. It's always said that the number is increasing in parliament right now. Our number of women's deputies has increased. But if our women lawmakers are not interested in the session where a law on women's affairs is being discussed, I think it shows the perspective of our women's deputies at the political party, who are primarily present, and I'd like to ask that this matter be shown to our nation by the cameramen of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Sir, today, here, you know, we're going to talk about a bill on violence against the woman, but I'd like to share the background of this bill before it comes to the agenda of the House. There are various commissions in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. One of them is the Women's Men's Equivalency Commission. However, even this legal arrangement, which has been said to be intended for women to lead a more egalitarian life, has not been referred to the Male Opportunity Equality Commission as the main commission. Mr. Speaker, they have found it appropriate that this law be considered the original commission of the Justice Commission. We tried to express our reservations on this issue during that two-hour meeting to the extent of the commission, because even though it was a subcommittee, we also expressed our reproach to our fellow officials in the commission who wanted this matter to be resolved and sent to the Justice Commission in a two-hour period, before the commissioners, who were in a position to be able to discuss enough issues, even if they were in a position to be an expert on women at first. But other issues were discussed there that day, and in the end, we all went to the Justice Commission together, and there was an incident that I witnessed that day, because of this bill that was being raised by 8 Marta, it was not known very well by our deputies under the roof of Parliament on March 8th. Because one of our parliamentarians used a phrase like this. With a hint that there is no need to go too far, he said, "Let us bring up that law on this fine day, even though these are not the words. " March 8th is not a good day. Since we have parliamentarians who don't know why March 8th was detected, I think we should talk about what March 8th is. March 8th, 1857 was a day of work in a textile factory in New York, where workers who were on strike were unable to save themselves and died in the fire, after they were locked in the factory during police intervention. In the name of 129 women who died in 1857, this incident was determined in the 1977s as the day of women, working women in the world. So March 8th is not a beautiful day, but I don't blame that mentality very much, because those who died in the mines died well. It's not much different than saying. But here's the thing. For days when we don't know what it's made of, what it's determined for, we use the term "promoting days" for days when we don't know its story. Yet there are days and events in our homeland, so vivid in our memories that we skip our own women as they reminisce about the deaths of women of other countries. Look, I'm going to read you a few names: Güldane Farmer, Özlem Ünal, Bircan Karataş, Naciya Black Sea, Nebahat Salkım, Altun Yüksek, Fikriye Özenturk and Nuriiye Can. I don't think any of you remember these people, except for those who knew these deceased people. It's not too old, 9/9/09. Eight women died while trying to get to the textile factory where they were working in a flood in Istanbul, in a service vehicle that was arranged in violation of the traffic law, in a service vehicle that was not suitable for transport. In 1857, people in different countries of the world who were locked up in New York, fighting for women who had died until the 1970s, while trying to commemorate the days of their own women all over the world, we still don't remember eight women who died in September 2009. Well, we don't remember, but do others? I'd like to read you a few sentences from the court transcripts. The owner of the business, the manager of the workplace, said these eight women who died in the flood during their testimony in court... that, unfortunately, when fate weaves their webs, one can't help the outcome. There's no cure for fire, there's no cure for water. I demand my acquittal. We are in a country where there are rulers who say, Therefore, we are very moved to celebrate the days of others, remembering the days of others: Aman, 8 Marta, let us raise a law! Ladies and gentlemen, on November 25th, we signed and raised a contract on violence; what do you think has changed in our lives, less violence? It's never been less. Look at the newspaper pages, look at the television screens and turn your ears to the street. There's violence everywhere. None of us are talking about the pose, but 8 Martas are trying to grow something. March 8th -- the fact that everyone in the world is human, that every human being in the world is precious -- is an absolute admission -- a day in memory of 129 women who died in New York, 1857. Are we able to protect our living today? What do we do to protect our living? In fact, when you look at this bill, you'll all see very easily that it's an arrangement for victims of violence who have been able to survive after being violent. But I want to rephrase one thing: Don't forget the posant, because violence doesn't distinguish between women, children, young, old, disabled, at all. Every day we face violence. It doesn't matter if this violence is verbal, written, physical, spiritual. There are some universal definitions, but there's no need to be specific about them. Violence, in fact, is all sorts of actions that affect the general health of man against his will, that affect him in a negative way. Why do I say that? Because as health is expressed in society, access to a hospital is not getting a doctor. Health is a whole form of good with people's physical, spiritual, social environment. So I don't think anyone who's a victim of violence is in a good mood with their social circle. So I found it appropriate to make such a definition in order for it to be shorter, more brief. And March 8th, a day celebrated in the world since 1977, is remembered as a day, but what? Women's struggle for equality has been described in the entire process as a day when women's current problems have been voiced once again, not a day that solves problems, but a repeat of past struggles, a day that causes current problems to be expressed. So with this bill -- as far as we can see -- we didn't solve a problem, just on March 8, we made a law on it. We're trying to say it. I have a concern. I would like to share with you the reasons for my concern. First of all, I would like to repeat our resentment over the fact that this bill is not set as the original commission of the Women's Opportunity Equality Commission, because I believe that our women's deputies at each party have a hard heart about it. Second: The general reason for the law is to refer to the Protection Act 4320 and to the international contract on preventing inequalities against the woman, but there is also the lack of reference to the Istanbul Convention, which was signed on November 25th, I think, or I think it was written earlier or someone forgot that we had signed! The purpose of this bill, regardless of what its name is, is a process that involves the protection of the family, but does not include prevention, does not bring any measures to prevent violence, but involves prosecution, along with protection, caution and trial. We can all see in detail that there are no indications of preventing violence, and I'll share it with you in a moment. The bill on violence does not include gender equality, equality of women and men, equality of women and men, equality of opportunity and Mobbinge. It's ironic that you don't include Mobbinge, because you didn't leave women in my employ, praise be to God! So Mobbing is definitely falling, but it's a social problem. Because violence is a public health issue, violence is a health problem. I see there's talk of an organization called the prevention and monitoring centers, and I think you've noticed it in the bill. Now, it's interesting that the shelters, which are the complements of these violent prevention and monitoring centers, are not mentioned in the drafts, that they've been ignored, that they've been ignored in very small detail is one of the biggest problems for us. Meanwhile, in the third column of Article 16 of the bill, there is an effort not to prevent violence, but to fight violence. Because after the statements in that third column, there's an arrangement in the syllabus in the 6th column. We can't do the syllabus by ourselves unless we get the Ministry of National Education into this system in Article 22. Yes, education must be for the prevention of violence. Of course, if we don't include the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance, who are we going to do the curriculum with if we don't mention the Ministry of Education here? I'd like an answer from the Minister. We all wish that the Ministry of National Education would be covered as soon as possible, because you will remember, Mr. National Education took out the CEDAW and empathy issues from the national education curriculum, which was previously established in August as a result of a study with the Training Discipline Board. So, Mr. Secretary, we all expressed your request that education be included in that clause on that day, and we're happy to have it here, but I think Mr. Minister of National Education will have the responsibility to convince you and explain to him the requirements because you remember what he put in the curriculum when he took out the National Education Minister CEDAW and empathy. Well, it's like we're doing a total quality study. Do we have a law against violence? Yes, there is, it's a plus in total quality, but what is it that we're trying to achieve, what we're trying to avoid, what we're trying to do when we say, there's no detail. In addition, if there is a mandatory military system in our country already and a time period of military abductions, I think it should be co-operated with the Ministry of National Defense in order not to miss this opportunity. I've also found it difficult to understand why higher education institutions have been assigned information on these matters, but I don't think we're thinking about education under a holistic mind, not the Ministry of National Education, not the Ministry of National Defense in that arrangement. I'd like the Minister to consider these matters and bring them up in the Council of Ministers, and I hope. There is also a notice that women will receive financial assistance through this arrangement. Mr. Secretary will remember very well, and we've all been talking about this in budget talks, and we've all said that the Ministry has about 8 billion budgets, and 4.1 billion of that seems to be a liability when the budget is being budgeted. The budget time was already half the cost of the Ministry's budget. So, Mr. Secretary, where are you going to get the resources for this? Do you have any work on this? Because there's a speech made by Mr. Finance Minister during budget talks, and it's in the brochures that have been distributed, and it has an approach to flexing the obligation to open a daycare in order to reduce the burden on employment, Mr. Finance Minister Simsek mentioned at those meetings. But where are you going to get this money, and I wonder what you're going to do when you're offering these women this money? But I'd also like to remind you that as the National Movement Party Group, there is a bill that we've submitted to make up for the loss of rights that we've given Mr. Mehmet Shandir and Mrs. Zuhal Topcu to pay alimony, perhaps that bill will help you find resources. We're hoping that the bill will be on the agenda of the House as soon as possible, and the rights to which they'll receive alimony will be compensated. There's a protection point where violence prevention and monitoring centers will be opened -- and I just said so. Of course, they could have been referred to more shelters, which are support institutions, but I'm curious to know that if the pilot application of these centers is limited to the 14 counties we've seen before, this 14 provinces have been chosen according to what they've chosen; a province where women's suicides such as Batman are very high has not been taken, and I'm curious. What kind of frame do you draw about the media, where you express it in detail, about the press that is written 90 minutes a week beyond what you say? We'd appreciate it if you'd share with us how violence objects in the written press will be arranged, statements and reports of violence. How many counties do we have in the family court, how many of them have enough personnel, and I don't have that information. I believe Mr. Secretary has this information, but where there are no family courts, I think the original punishments will be appropriate. But again, there's one thing that's forgotten about the bill: the instigators. It's something nobody's talking about. We want it to be part of the bill, which we hope is related not only to violence, but also to violence. As a result, we shared our reservations about the bill on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, our proposals at commission meetings, one-on-one meetings with the Minister and our fellow MPs at other parties. However, I would like to convey our request to the Speaker of Parliament: If a woman is the subject of a woman's agenda, if there is a bill in the subject of a bill, I think a bill is the first-degree request of all female parliamentarians, if it will improve inequalities, inequality of opportunity, in some way. I'm making this request on behalf of all women MPs here and on behalf of all Turkish women as a request to the Speaker of Parliament. Yeah, this time this bill passed the commission. But it didn't work out like someone said in the referendums, but it did, Mr. President. We female parliamentarians don't just want to be expressed as numbers, we want to be in charge of what we know, and we want to be the primary commission. One word to men: Since this bill came to the agenda, many men have reached our e-mail addresses, our phones, and said: "You're always talking about women. Will there be no positive discrimination against us men? I asked a lot of the men who reached out to me, and I think that the people at the TV station and the men in this room should ask themselves: "We're going to discriminate against our sisters at the 2010 referendum. That's not inequality. Didn't you guys ever think of that when you said yes to the referenda clauses? The bill will surely pass due to the number of lawmakers in the current government, but there are shortcomings. If we, the National Movement Party, are asked to help us complete these shortcomings, we are always ready. It also reminds me of our child support bill, all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0025par0409	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Our second speaker is İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Tuncel. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0026par0414	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the general bill of the Family Protection and Avoiding Violence Against Women. I salute you all. In fact, as Mr. Congressman put it before me, it's possible to understand why, when we look at the table here, the audience or the participation here, especially when we look at the women's lawmakers and the male lawmakers' interest in this law, why the name of this law has changed, because there's actually no general approach to women's problems, women's policy, we should do more casual, social pressure changes in general. There's an approach to women's policy. And I want to start by criticizing this because it's not just a question of women, it's a matter of the whole community, and it's a matter of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, because we have to start here, we have to start with social gender equality, equality policies. When it doesn't start here, it has different reflections all the way to the bottom. Before expressing our views on the draft bill, lawmakers say tomorrow (March 8th) is World Women's Day, and many communities refer to it as World Working Women's Day. On this occasion, once again, I say to all women on March 8th, "Happy World Laboring Women's Day," and to women in the fields on March 8th, who are screaming for equality, democracy and freedom, we extend our love and greetings from here. The other issue, you know, is that most women, policymakers, political women have been harmed in political genocide cases, which have been carried out under the name "KCK. " Nearly 500 women are currently under arrest. Two members of this Parliament are under arrest and on hunger strike. It's not the agenda of Parliament, of course, but our friends here, apart from the Peace and Democracy Group, never even felt the need to mention it. Our two friends in prison, Professor Büşra Ersanlı and Ayşe Berktay, whose identity name is Ayşe Hadjimirzaoğlu, won the PEN Emotion Asena Prize this year. I, for one, celebrate the March 8th Women's Day of the Women's Day of all women in prison, both for political reasons and for legal reasons. Mr. President, once again, when this bill of law came up, Mr. Congressman from the National Movement Party before me, the matter of the commission is a matter of criticism on our part. The Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission considered it a commission, and the original commission became the Justice Commission. We object to that in the Commission, and we said that the actual commission, which should be discussed, should be the Women's Opportunity Equality Commission. If you recall, we also had serious problems here when the Women's Male Opportunity Equivalence Commission was established. At the time, women worked as a women's equality commission, and we brought it in a thousand years, and with the partnership of all parties from here, and that's when it came out as a women's-men's equality commission, but it came here, it turned into an equal opportunity, with the AKP's votes again. We actually saw a similar approach here because the AKP had decided where to meet. Mr. Secretary tried to create a legal reason for that. We've seen it from here once again, the Women's Men's Equivalency Commission is a story. We can't even talk about women, we can't argue. The commission with the most female members, the Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission, the MPs, but we discussed the thing about women in the Justice Commission. When you look at the number of female members in the Justice Commission, it's not the same. This is a serious problem. Secondly, the issue of the second review was that much work was carried out with women's organisations regarding this bill, and our Minister carried out some studies on it six months ago. He had breakfast with lawmakers in parliament. This breakfast bill has also been made public. I don't know if that was a receipt for breakfast with women's organizations. Again, he met with women's organizations. Let's say that 237 women's organisations have conducted so much work, and women's organisations have done very important work on this, again, on preventing violence against women. At the end of these six months, we found that at least on 12th, 13th and 15th February 2012, and until January 31st, the Ministry's proposal, the draft and the bill submitted to the Prime Ministership had changed completely when it came to the Women's Opportunity Equality Commission. This is serious. So not only did the Ministry not accept the work of women's organisations, but we don't agree with your work, but you can work on our work. It's been said that this study has been turned into a bird. And then the women's organizations -- I mean, even when the women's organizations consider this bill incomplete and inadequate, we can fix it in the commission, we can fight it. It's said that even when we're discussing it in the Commission, let's go to the Prime Minister. Now, some of these arrangements have been made there, but they still haven't changed their name. When this bill came to the Commission as a bill for the Protection of Women and Family Persons from Violence, the Prime Minister probably intervened in this -- that was the case with the Male Opportunity Equality Commission -- or the male executives intervened in it. Because as women, I think the Minister believes in equality of opportunity and opportunity. Because he's been running women's policies for a long time, leading women's arms, knowing women's policies, I'm counting on that reference, probably because he can't change the way his boyfriends think, it's the idea of a family. ▪ Avoiding Violence Against Family and Women is also the subject of basic criticism.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0027par0422	Well, then, damn it, that's what men think.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0026par0423	Congressmans, our friends can say that what's so important about the name is content. It's not really what's important, it's what's important. In Law 4320, women's organisations actually objected to the issue of protecting the family. They said: "It's not about the protection of the family, because as long as you protect the family, you make the violence within the family invisible. " This is a serious problem. Today, in fact, the Ministry has agreed to this in some way. We'd like to convey our criticism to the Minister. Mr. Secretary, this is not the work of 237 women's organisations; this is a bill organised by the AKP's government. We women, of course, argue that violence against women and protection measures should be taken immediately in Turkey, where five women are killed a day. From that point on, we're going to suggest that the law should be more effective when spoken as far as possible during the day. I hope the AKP's Government and the Minister will at least consider our views on this matter. The other point is, it's actually something the AKP government does all the time. In this bill, he denies it before, so it's like showing death and convincing malaria. That's what's happening to us now. This is a serious problem. Members of parliament, the main problem of this law is that it does not base gender equality, it does not base on equality of women and women. With the objections of women's organisations, these words have entered the law, partially, but this does not show that this mentality has changed. No law that does not believe in equality between men and women, does not act in politics from the perspective of equality and does not look from here has a social response. Exposure, making laws, unfortunately, doesn't solve our problems in this regard. We've seen a lot of this up until today. Most of the times during the AKP ruling period were generalized, studies on violence against women, but we see that during the AKP, violence against women increased by 1,400 per cent, and 5 women were killed a day. As the Minister stated, there were women's deaths in the past, and now it's visible. The matter is a great deception. Yes, there used to be violence against women, but it has increased during your time because in your time, the situation of equality with men and women has been eliminated by your own hand. We think it's a serious problem, and it needs to be put away as soon as possible. It's because it's not just this law, it's going to be a lot of work from now on. If that doesn't happen, women will still be exposed to violence, women will be killed every day, and we will be talking about violence against women every day. We don't want them as women. So we're also taking the issue of violence against women over political parties, women's policies over politics. We have stated that we will support any arrangements against her as the Peace and Democracy Party. Members of the law, women's organisations have a few important insights into this bill, and I'd like to present it to you in a few topics, even though the old bill is still considered to be discussed. Women's organisations' main demands for the law are: the establishment of regulations for the dynamics behind the discrimination ban, actual inequality of violence, the addition of sexual orientation and gender identity testimony to the law, the protection of victims and those who witness violence, the adoption of women's organisations in all cases related to violence, the adoption of regulations for shelters and sexual violence crisis centers, the inclusion of measures when necessary, the removal of women's rights to violence during the protection process, the removal of the child's personal relationship with violence during this period, the removal of women's organisations in all kinds of cases related to violence, and the removal of women's rights rights from sexual rights, as well as for non-responsories, as for those who are under the same measures, and equal to those who are under the same measures, and those who are under the same measures and women's rights. There's a partial education arrangement in this law, but it's a serious problem with who's going to do it, who's going to do it, where they're going to start it, because judges and prosecutors are often judging women based on traditional gender perceptions, based on male perception. Again, the legal application process for violence is the organisation of which it cannot attempt to mediate and compromise among the parties. This intermediary issue is serious, it is not in the law, but in general, women are sent to their homes when they are violent in the mindset. The latest incident in Adana, for example. The young woman filed eight criminal charges against the D.A.'s office, but then she didn't survive death because the D.A. didn't comply. We face similar situations in many cases. I mean, there's an application, other than that, because there's law enforcement out there, the supervisor, the judge, the prosecutor, is actually approaching male dominant mentality, so he's thinking manly, so he's deciding all his feelings, all his feelings are based on that. It has to be prevented, it has to be trained. Again, the establishment of the anti-violence and monitoring centers that will effectively monitor and monitor the implementation of the law, and co-direction with women's organisations -- these centers are actually set up in this law proposal, but it's important that it works with women's organisations. Because where there are no women, unfortunately, there are no decisions on behalf of women, lawmakers. If we're setting up a law here, it's going to affect women's lives, so it's actually going to affect society's life, so we're going to have to do something healthier for it. While we were discussing this bill, we told Mr. Secretary, OK, 8 Martas is important to deliver, to give women good news about it, and that's what we want. But let's work hard, work together, and really take an approach to not being held again. I think our Speaker told us that every day, it's like a law thing, and we're making laws because the laws we make are not enough, and then we're making laws to regulate it, and we can't really achieve that equality in verbiage. Again, lawmakers, of course -- we just told you -- it's not the law, it's the people who enforce these laws. If those who apply it really don't believe in equality policies, if they don't believe that men and women are equal in this country, their practices are consistent. So one of the main things this country has to do is to ensure equality between men and women. This Parliament boasts that it is the first country to sign the European Convention, the contract on women, the Council of Europe's Istanbul Convention. That contract is very important; yes, it's a point of equality between men and women. He has important decisions regarding measures against domestic violence, specifically referred to as the special area. We expect this Parliament to implement it. We just signed it, not leave it here. That's why it's important to change the mindset here. Again, lawmakers, of course, women's problems are not only a problem with these laws, they are not only a problem with violence, but women are actually facing serious problems in many areas. In particular, the problem of women's employment is one of Turkey's biggest problems. According to July 2011 statistics, Turkey is far behind 62 per cent of European Union countries with a 30 per cent female employment rate. Again, women's participation in the labor force is observed in the 30 per cent. The unemployment rate has risen to 11 per cent for all of Turkey, while the rate for women is 13 per cent. When we look at women's employment rates, we see that the painting has not changed since 2002. I mean, we make all these legal arrangements, we do so-called activities in favor of women, but ever since 2002, since your power, this painting and women have been getting poorer and poorer. In fact, this poverty also turns into violence against women. This is also important in terms of the elimination of violent policies. According to the OECD Women's Report, it falls below 20 per cent, while the employment rate of women in Turkey is around 45% in European Union countries. Since we make every law according to Europe, why don't we organize the employment according to Europe? So in the European Union process, we refer to all our laws from there. This is a very serious problem, developing them is one of our main problems. Again, let's say that women with home axes are much worse off. You know, I don't want to give you a general picture, but these women don't even count as workers, they have exploitation. Let's say that because he works in a house, there are people who fall out of the window and fight for their lives, and what insurance is covered because they're working off the books, and I think it's important for all women in the field of life to talk about this, not about the signing of the 189th Article of ILO, but about the women's ministry of women, rather, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, because it's not just about women in the field of employment. Congressmans, of course, I mean, this is what the Ministry of Family and Social Policy can do, and they can actually do that. When you bring the family and social policies with you, the bill that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy will bring out will naturally be the Family Protection Bill. One of the main things about protecting the family, however, is that family members can be more effective individuals. Now, let's protect the family. You're always covering up the problems in the family because nothing in the family is reflected. Unfortunately, the legal arrangements for this approach will be protected first, and then the individual will be protected. Again, what will be the concept of this family? You're just going to refer to those who are married? What's the situation in this family? Those who aren't married and who are together, let's say the imam weddings have such a reality in Turkey -- let's say that there is a gay truth in this country, and we're wondering how you're going to put all this into this concept of family. Thus, this bill is not a bill that meets the needs of women. And in the departments, we're going to express our proposals, our proposals for change, about materials. This is a serious problem. Finally, MPs, of course, only 78 of the 550 MPs of this Parliament are women. There are now six women who are interested in women, there are 10 women in all, men are already gone, so it's a serious problem.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0028par0442	Is it okay or not?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0026par0443	I don't include you. So, this is a serious problem. So right now we're bragging about 14.2 percent of the representation in Parliament. In particular, we know most of the pressure that women in the AKP's ruling era are under. More than 500 women are currently under arrest, our political, policy-making female friend, and these women are under arrest for their politics, and they are under arrest for their women's policies on the agenda of Turkey because the AKP's ruling Party for Peace and Democracy is the only issue that women have failed to defeat. We're doing 40% gender quotas, co-chairing. There are 26 women in this country, 14 of them BDP, but now three of our women mayors are under arrest. In Parliament, let's say that over 30 percent of representation is our representation. When they ask in Europe, all they say is, "We can't tell the Peace and Democracy Party anything about women." So, what do we do? We will arrest women of BDP; whether they are women or children, we will do so. It's nothing more than your approach to prevent women from getting in the way of politics. If it weren't for this... Yesterday, Mr. Secretary went to Roboski. The main problem of this country is the Kurdish problem. From there, while crying with the mothers there, they sent messages of peace. That's the main problem of this country: these women have been taken into full custody because they're interested in the peace issue, they've been arrested, they've said the Kurdish problem should be solved. If so, you understand the pain of those women, you understand the tears of those women, then free the women who make policy first, at least on March 8th, give them open opinion. Now, you're not going to do that, you're going to go over it, you're going to do politics, you're not going to move when you come to the peace issue, and then you're going to say, "We're doing politics on women, we want women to develop." The only thing AKP is, how can we advertise about this, we've done this, we've done this, so we've made some improvements. On this subject, I once again request the removal of the barriers to women's participation in politics, the immediate removal of of the TMC (TMK) in favor of women, and once again, I celebrate the 8th March Day of all women as I finish my vows.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0029par0448	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. Third speaker for the groups, Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Akova.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0030par0452	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group to discuss the Protection of the Family and Avoiding Violence Against Women. The 4320 Law consists of 4 articles, while the 181th Charter, which is brought to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey today, consists of 25 articles, which is a positive development and is important. We also know the Minister's efforts and efforts. However, the views of the opposition, women's organizations, NGOs have not been reflected enough. For a long time, a law was needed by all parts of society to prevent violence, threats, intimidation, oppression, and persecution that women and our children were subjected to. This law, which is sought to prevent violence against the woman, is often lacking in the agenda of the General Assembly by being passed too quickly from commissions to reach World Women's Day. The draft bill has taken significant steps to protect women from violence. In the event of violence or violence, it is a crucial change in the way that anyone can report the situation to the authorities or authorities. The violent person often submits to violence because he does not report violence because of fear, lack of education and material improprieties, and because he does not know that he can be protected from violence by the state. The life and body integrity of the victim, who is unaware of the existence of ways to fight violence, is often at risk. In order to eliminate these dire consequences, it is vital that those other than those who have been subjected to violence or violence can also report to authorities. Of course, the admission of law enforcement officers that the staff of public institutions and organisations who will serve in the matter should be trained in the matters of human rights and equality of women and children will make it easier to carry out their duties in accordance with the law's purpose. With our group's amendment proposal, the protection measure is crucial to the decision to continue the measures by the judge's decision, even if the protected person does not have a complaint. Once again, it would be an important step in changing the social mentality, for our group's proposed change of elementary school, secondary school curriculum, the introduction of classes on gender, women's rights to human rights and women's equality. In order to change social mentality, early childhood children will be protected from gender discrimination, equal participation of both sexes in all areas of public and private life, by training to be seen, strengthened, represented and represented, and an early level of awareness against women and domestic violence. Although the laws of law are excellent, social change is not possible to fight the woman with violence until the education provisions that lead to social mental change are held. It is possible to take more effective steps towards violence and to improve the implementation of the law. The ministry's budget burden is appreciated, especially with the obligations it accepts in the field of day care and health. However, as the Ministry responsible for the Protection of the Family and Avoidance of Violence Against Women, we strongly criticise the responsibility of a Ministry that does not mention the name of a woman and that the priority, even in the name of the law, should be given to the protection of the family. At first, violence is covered by the message that she can live alone in the concept of family, that she cannot be accepted as an individual, that if she is not in the family concept, she will not be considered and will not be protected. For the name of the law to be in harmony with the Istanbul Convention, it must be replaced as a draft law for the Protection of Women and Family Persons from Violence and preventing Violence. In this regard, Mr. Mehmet Candy, our Gaziantep MP, has a law proposal to change the name of the law and to name the name of the woman. Let's all change the name of the law together in this bill and add her name to the law. In a similar way, the name of the law begins in the protection of the family, the protection of the family and the protection of the family are primarily intended for the social mentality. The continuation of the family union is a priority, even if the woman sees violence. Even if the perfect laws are prepared, it will not contribute to the change of traditional social mentality, which, when sent such hidden messages, makes the woman the second grader, which makes her the least responsible for taking care of the child in her home. The start of the bill in the terms of the protection of the family puts the possibility of protecting women who are unmarried, engaged, lovers, divorced, or living together without a marriage union, not using the judgment of the judges. Segregation in protecting her from violence is an invitation to violence in person. In addition, the name of the bill is far from fulfilling the obligation of CEDOW to take the necessary measures regardless of the civil status of women. The name of the bill is clear to misunderstandings and psychological pressures. If we are proud everywhere to talk about being the first country to sign the Convention on the Council of Europe, which signs and approves the Convention on Violence Against Women and Family Violence, we should not hesitate to pay for it in our internal law. If we recall that the Convention on the Council of Europe did not take effect because the other members of the Council of Europe did not have enough signatures, it was necessary to implement the very important obligations we accepted in this Charter. The rights of the victims to free legal aid and support are not included in this bill, and the first agreement that we are proud of is that the state that we accept with the Istanbul Convention should compensate for the violence of the citizen should be made obligatory to open shelters, that conflict solutions should be adopted, that legal and other measures should be taken for unilateral and resen trials should be adopted. The conclusion is that our internal law refrains from implementing this Convention. Moreover, the bill stated that international contracts under the heading of the purpose, Kapsam, and Basic Principles will be based especially on other legal regulations in the Council of Europe Convention, but the other provisions of this provision were not taken into consideration. In order to maintain the most basic human right to live, our state must make broader laws in order to fulfill its mandate and responsibility with international contracts, supporting it with education to succeed in implementing it must ensure and ensure the change of social mentality. Although the first bill made the definition of violence more extensive, violence involving written attitudes and actions was ignored. The issues needed to be more specific in the context of broadcasts that national, regional and local broadcasters and radio stations would make at least 90 minutes per month. ▪ TV broadcasts about gender equality or equality of women and women, the publication of children and women's human rights, the statement clearly had to be included in the bill. Any arrangement left in a good mood will emerge in a way that will create bigger problems in the future. Sights can be taken, but the mentality can go on as it pleases. The obligation to open a shelter was necessary. As agreed in Article 30, if the state cannot protect children and women from violence, it must accept the obligation to pay compensation. The state must also pay sufficient compensation to those who are not covered by other sources, such as the damage, perpetrators, insurance or state-funded health and social services, which have been damaged or damaged by violence. As agreed in Article 48, the Istanbul Convention had to take part in the legislation to ban mandatory alternative conflict resolution processes, including intermediary and reconciliation, as we have agreed in Article 48. When the woman under pressure is unable to resist violence, her attitude is also evident when faced with pressure for reconciliation and reconciliation. This time, the pressure of the state will be an instrument, and she will face a different kind of violence. It is a lack of six months of forced imprisonment, an important innovation in the bill to protect the victim of violence and effectively implement the necessary measures needed for the perpetrator. After six months, it's unclear what happens if the victim continues to be a victim. So if a violent person tightens his teeth for six months, he'll be forced to go away, and the effectiveness of an important measure will be destroyed to prevent crime. If the concept of male equality used in the bill is used to include the concept of a broader meaning of social gender equality, why is the process being used instead? Why the concept of social gender equality is not understood, Minister. Again, the lack of special units to protect women and children from violence within law enforcement units is a major flaw. If law enforcement was given important tasks with this bill to protect her from violence, these tasks would have to be carried out by special units. In order to fight violence against women and children, special units to protect women and children from violence have to be trained and specialized in this matter. In order for special law enforcement units to carry out their duties with full responsibility, they need to be trained not only on the services mentioned in this law but also on the philosophical basis of the work. Special law enforcement agencies may rightly fulfil their obligations born from the law after being aware of their education in gender equality, not being discriminated against on gender-based basis, equal participation of both sexes in all areas of public and private life, being seen, strengthened, represented, and involved. The abused woman may not be working, she may be studying. Therefore, it is very important not only to change the workplace of a violent individual, but also to change the place of study if he is studying. If the protected person is not working, it must be the state's obligation to provide employment if he wants to reduce his economic dependency because it makes it easier for the individual to experience economic inability to deal with violence and to maintain violence. If the violent victim gains economic independence, he will also be protected by the state against violence. It is necessary to implement preventive measures, not only for those who are violent, but also for those who help those who are violent. It is clear to all of us that the husband who is violent in our society has been supported by other members of the family. While the victim is suffering violence, other individuals in the household also increase the level of violence by helping the violent one or other individuals outside the family. Therefore, for those who help those who use violence, the preventive measures must be taken if necessary by the judge. When a woman in a traditional society is subjected to violence, it is very difficult for her to carry it out of her environment and fight against it. The fact that he has to go on with his life as if there was no violence within tradition, or even the pressure to continue his family unity in such an environment is something that we all know very well. The biggest responsibility here is to protect the woman from violence, the law enforcement, the estate, the chief, the judge, the Ministry's county and county administrations. If those in charge of protecting women against violence with protective and preventive measures fail to fulfill their responsibilities, they must be obliged to pay compensation. They'll be more responsible for their duties, knowing they're under the obligation to pay compensation. If we create a perfect constitution and institutions, even if all international and national laws are set up perfectly for equality of men and women, protection of women and children, even without a democratic political culture environment, and making women feel obliged to shut and give birth to at least three children, the problems with women and children will continue to become increasingly heavy without any change in the social mind that advises them to sit beside your husband without speaking. Although the rights of women and children are protected on the legal grounds, we will continue to talk about these problems before they happen in practice. The principle of equality: The concepts, such as the equality of men and women, the equality of women, the social equality of gender, and the domestic violence of the house, must be put back into place, Minister. The international standard of human rights, as in international human rights documents and contracts, should be referred to as equality of women and men. Protection: The number of public shelters in Turkey is 40, insufficient. First, we say that every province must have shelters, and the existing shelters must be healed immediately. According to the 2008 Family Violence Research on Women, 42 percent of our women in Turkey have been exposed to physical or sexual violence at any time in life. According to the World Economic Forum Gender Cliff Index's 2011 rating, Turkey ranked 122. Therefore, we say that it is a problem of democracy, law, education and social mentality that women gain equal rights in all areas with men, protect them from all kinds of abuse and violence, take part in decision-making mechanisms, promote representation in politics. Honourable MPs, I've also informed the Women's Male Opportunity Equivalency Commission. In the past, because of the violence of a client working as a resident in a high school, I've decided to divorce him from violent dissension with no lawyer's fee, and to cover his expenses, but he's continued to threaten and violence, we've applied to police stations, we've met with prosecutors, but, of course, we couldn't prevent that. What happened? My client was killed by her husband on the bridge. And after that, I took custody of my client's family again, and I got involved with his family again with no charge, and after he died, I tried to defend and maintain my client's rights. For him -- we all have events, things that are affected -- I care a lot about this woman's violence. It's a really important development, and I admit it's an important development, but I expect a better law to be made, considering the changes we and women organizations have offered, and we're all going to be together and we're going to need your support. Again, I'm sorry to say that even below the knee level of Samsun County, the violence against women will continue as long as there's a crisis table in which women and men are not allowed to be together in the evenings, even at the crisis table, where they can't even tolerate a skirt worn in line with the dress code. Therefore, I expect you to be more sensitive about this matter on the eve of World Laboring Women's Day, with my greetings and greetings.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0031par0495	Thank you, Mr. Akova. On behalf of the groups, the last speaker is Azize Sibel Gönul, a member of the Alexei MP on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Heart.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0032par0499	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the protection of family number 181 and the prevention of violence against women. I celebrate the 8th Day of Women of the World, where all the women of the world and our country express their desire for equality, development, and more peaceful life, and I salute the Grand Assembly. Dear lawmakers, I would like to announce from here that our current speaker friends, lawmakers, and lawmakers, agree in their talks that the Male Opportunity Equality Commission is not the main commission, but that our Commission will serve as an audience and a follow-up commission on the implementation of this law, especially the precision of this law. The Constitution of the Republic of Turkey pledges to ensure everyone's right of life and that no one can be subject to a punishment or treatment that is incompatible with human dignity, with the 17th article defined by its immunity, material and spiritual existence. Violence against women means that this is a violation of the constitutional rights, and the state is under considerable responsibility to prevent this violation. Again, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, it is the duty of a state for all living within the country's borders to live in a healthy environment. In addition to the biological and physical environment, the health of the social environment is the most fundamental constitutional right of the individual. In this regard, the definition of violence is described as any form of physical, sexual, psychological, verbal, or economic behavior that occurs in a social, public or private area, including threats and pressure or the arbitrary obstruction of freedom, resulting in physical, physical, psychological, verbal, or economic damage, or possible consequences of suffering or suffering. Violence against women is defined in all forms of behavior, behavior and violence that lead to a gender-based discrimination against women only because they are women or in violation of women's human rights. It should be known that the problem of violence against women did not begin with Turkey, nor was Turkey unique to Turkey. According to a study conducted by the World Health Organization in ten countries, the proportion of women exposed to physical violence by their wives ranges from 13 per cent to 61 per cent from the country. Another study found that in the United States, one woman's husband was physically abused every 15 seconds. Following the first national research conducted by the Turkish Prime Ministerial Family Research Agency between 1993 and 1994, the results of domestic violence and the results of the 2nd national research, conducted by Altanay and Arat from 2006 to 2007, with the support of TÜBİTAK, 18 months of the TÜBİTAK, the violence of the social sex: Analysis of the Problem Tespiti and Anti-Family Methods, there have been very dramatic results on violence against women. According to the study, the rate of women who have been abused less than once in their lifetime is 35 per cent in Turkey's sample and 40 per cent in the Eastern sample. In Turkey's example, 49 per cent of them told no one about it, and 63 per cent of them told no one about it in the Eastern illustration. So in Turkey, 1/3 of women are exposed to physical violence, and only 1/4 of them are exposed. Thus, the violence is often hidden, and the women who suffer violence have to fight it alone. Violence against women entered the international community's agenda under the concept of human rights. In Turkey, the issue was on the public agenda, especially after the 80s, with campaigns to fight violence against women. In 90, the establishment of the Women's Status General Directorate was the first concrete and significant development in this regard. Due to the aim of ensuring the equality of men and women in all areas of social life and the removal of prejudices based on male-female roles and practices involving discrimination, the Convention on Women's Rights as well has been signed by Turkey in 1985 and has been implemented since 86. The UN Committee for Avoiding All Types of Segregation Against the Women (United Nations), the 12th General Advice taken by the Committee on Discriminalism, in 99, has urged states to fight fiercely against the woman. It has determined that statistical data is needed in this regard. A committee recommendation number 19 in 92 -- the general advice -- described gender-based violence as a form of discrimination that prevents women from being able to benefit from equal rights and freedoms. This decision is also a basis for the Declaration of Avoiding Violence Against Women published by the United Nations General Assembly. This declaration stressed that states should not interfere with their responsibilities in the field of violence against women, citing reasons such as tradition, customs, or religion. An important step has been taken into effect in the protection of women exposed to domestic violence in 98 and has been taken by Court judges in 2007 to protect family protection, and for the first time the concept of domestic violence has been defined in a legal text, as well as for the protection of individuals exposed to violence within the family. Following these developments, a commission was established on 11/10/2005 in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to determine the reasons for the murder of tradition and honor and the reasons for violence against women and children and to determine the measures needed to be taken, and the Commission's report was issued in 2006/17, with measures to be taken to eliminate violence against women and to be held responsible institutions. The Prime Minister's Office of 2006/17 has adopted the country's agenda and has made the fight against women a state policy. In order to develop the application, the National Action Plan for Fighting Domestic Violence was drafted by the Women's Status General Directorate. The Treaty of the Council of Europe, or the Treaty of the Council of Europe, referred to as the Convention on the Council of Europe, was signed in May 2011 in Istanbul and signed by thirteen countries including Turkey. Turkey, the first country to sign the contract, was the first country in its Parliament to pass the law on 25 November 2011. Dear MPs, the Women's Equality for Opportunity Commission, which I chaired, has not been insensitive to violence against women whose right to health, human rights, human rights and moral integrity, the right to freedom and security, the right to fundamental rights and freedoms such as the right to work, and a bleeding wound of society. In this context, as a Commission, a subcommittee has been set up to determine the shortcomings in legislation and practice in preventing violence against women, experts on the subject have been heard, conducted proper examinations, and, based on the findings obtained from all these talks, proposals for solutions have been developed in the legislation and practice of preventing violence against women. The report has been sent to all relevant institutions. During this period, a subcommittee of Women and Family Violence was established by the Human Rights Commission in order to prevent violence against women, and the commission was completed. In view of all of this, a new bill has been drafted with action and reformist understanding from the fact that Law 4320 did not respond to the requirements. In drafting the bill, violent events and processes have been used at the highest level from the monitoring, demand and suggestions of NGOs on the subject, academic environments and judicial practice. So the bill is a concrete result of a joint effort and cooperation developed on a ground based on social participation and savings. The aim of the bill is to organise procedures and principles for the protection of women, children, family members and victims of unilaterally persistent pursuit and prevention of violence against these people. In Article 1 of the bill, purpose and coverage are clearly presented. On the contrary, it is the obligation of CEDAW to take the necessary measures, regardless of the civil status of the women referred to by CEDAW, as well as the victims of violence mentioned in the matter from a marriage union established under Law 4721. On the other hand, the bill includes comprehensive and results-oriented measures, even though the measures for preventing and preventing violence were insufficient in Law 4320, by allowing law enforcement officers to take measures in which there is a problem with both authorities and judges and delays. The key innovation in the bill to ensure effective implementation is forced imprisonment. Forced imprisonment is not a criminal offense, but rather a preventive institution aimed at forcing a violent person to take action. The right criticism of the current application, due to the lengthy duration of the lawsuits due to the violation of the need for measures, and that there is not a deterrent effect due to the very rare implementation of the foreseeable prison sentences, has been met with the appeal of coercion in the bill. One of the most important innovations of this bill is that the victim of a violent individual is quickly removed, free use of services, and rehabilitated by the perpetrator of violence. In accordance with international agreements that we signed and passed through our Parliament, the bill aims not only to take precautions about the women who are subjected to violence but also to prevent such violence. However, the lack of collateral damage after being subjected to violence is one of the key provisions of this bill. The follow-up of protective measures resolutions has been predicted to be carried out using technical tools and methods, and the procedures and bases related to this will be regulated with regulations. A variety of alternatives have actually been discussed in terms of surveillance, violence, or the possibility of execution. Maybe we'll elaborate on that in the law today. Electronic handcuffs or wristbands can also be used by means of mobile devices that the protected person can use besides a fixed domestic warning device or a home that allows the victim to exercise freedom of movement. Dear lawmakers, the establishment of violent prevention and monitoring centres where support services for the use of protective and preventive measures have been provided effectively and conducted 24/7. It is an important step in fighting violence, not only to decide on protective and preventive measures to protect the victim, but also to establish these centers in terms of the practicality and monitoring of these measures. With this bill, the protective and preventive measures taken by the judge have been widely placed. The fact that arrangements have been made for the speed and secrecy of precautionary decisions is one of the key innovations of this bill. However, not only are those exposed to violence but also those who have been falsely accused are also included in the institution of protective objection. Dear lawmakers, bringing in the bill of reporting is one of the most important innovations. For the public official who received the report, it is also a duty to carry out his duties under the law without delay. Finally, the law stipulates temporary financial aid for the victim, providing allowance and facilitating provisions, allowances, expenses and tax exemptions, and regulations to protect the victim of violence. I'd like to first thank our Ministry of Family and Social Policy, our esteemed congressmen, our NGOs, our academics, our bureaucrats, everyone who's done their part in the bill. I hope that our law will be good for our nation, our country, and the women of our country, and I especially wish to greet you with a final verse, especially in my belief that in violence against women, and in social violence, all the layers and institutions of society should be focused on this with precision. ▪ I would like to write the fight on the leaf of the tree, For autumn to come and the leaves to fall. I'd like to write hate on the clouds, To let the rain fall and the clouds disappear. I'd like to write anger on the snow, Let the sun shine so the snow melts. I'd like to write love and friendship in the hearts of all newborn babies, So they can grow up and surround the whole world. I say stay in love, stay in friendship, and respect all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0033par0538	Thank you, Mr. Heart. Now, speaking for the group is complete. On behalf of the individuals, İstanbul MP Türkan Dağoğlu. Mr. Mountainoglu, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0034par0544	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own people regarding the protection of the family and the prevention of violence against women. First of all, I would like to extend my congratulations and thanks to all concerned friends, who have generously demonstrated their efforts, commitment and intellectual savings in the planning of the Protection of the Family as a woman and the Protection of Violence Against the Woman as well as to the full Ministry of Family, Family, and Social Affairs Minister Mr. Fatma Şahin. In this sense, in our election declaration, we also expressed our determination to resolve her problems as a party, and we took preventing violence against her as a priority. We have all witnessed the extent of women's murders by taking advantage of the gaps and changes in the Protection Act 4320. Men had the right to kill dozens of women every month, to hurt dozens of them, to harass them. Here, with this new bill passed, all measures to strengthen the status of the woman will enter into our everyday lives in a holistic and up-to-date manner and will be punished with the harshest sanctions that have the right to harm women. A review of violence against women in Turkey is often expressed in debates about violence, the idea that it is impossible to prevent this violence by bringing new laws, that it should be moved to practice, an application model. In this sense, I care deeply about the model of the Austrian model in this bill, by studying the best practices available in the West. This model also predicts that the gaps between law and practice will prevent the gap by bringing in institutions that work parallel to the law. For example, the opening of the women's offices at police stations and providing a fixed domestic device for a woman who is suffering violence will be a very innovative and effective solution, as well as the pressing of the emergency call button for warning devices. The United Nations Declaration of Avoiding Violence Against Women defines violence against women as violence based on gender and violence directed at a woman simply because she is a woman, or which affects women in a disproportionate way. As a ruling party, we also care deeply about preventing violence from only limiting violence with physical violence, and any form of violence that undermines the woman's dignity. In this sense, by expanding the definition of violence in the new bill, we include acts of violence, such as threats of violence, insults, and violence. Dear lawmakers, in order to fight violence against the woman and make the positive results permanent, we must carry out a revolution of mentality. In this sense, I think it's important to implement rehabilitation programmes on mandatory anger control for the violent person who has also been adopted by the new bill, and I think it's important that the President of Religious Affairs divide Friday's borders into violence against women. So we need to create a mental environment in men that will trigger the revolution of mentality and question the orientation of violence. If the family's protection is to support its participation in working life if the person protected along with the new bill, not forgetting the presence of children in violence against women, then a day care centre can be provided for their children for two months if necessary. On the other hand, the bill can also provide psychological, professional, legal, and social guidance and advice to prevent women from maintaining their existence as wounded souls. Let's not forget that in Turkish culture, a woman has always had an extremely important place. Those of us who are aware of this are also aware of such legal measures, and the European Union has taken advantage of grant programmes from organizations such as the United Nations, and have been putting this will first in front of her socioeconomic power from the very beginning. We, the AK PARTY, are willing to sacrifice our best to break the silence circle of the woman who's been hit by violence, and we're going to show it. For this reason, we make many important attempts to strengthen the woman's economic strength to take a more upright stand in front of her husband. The success of long-running microcred projects is evident, especially in the rural area, in strengthening the status of the woman within the family. In addition, the protocol signed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in February will prioritize the employment of women victims of violence in women shelters. Of course, making legal and practical arrangements is a gain, but not enough, so that violence against women can be fully avoided. All shareholders of that meaning need to lay their hands on the stone in the process. For example, barrooms and female NGOs should hold briefings on the law. In access to women in the countryside, visual and written media should inform on rights that come with the law. Dear lawmakers, all yesterdays are the beacons that light up these days. In preventing violence against women, I invite everyone from any party, any ideology, whatever gender, to take part in this human mission, to learn from past murders, violence, suicides, and not repeat mistakes. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0035par0555	Thank you, Mr. Mountainoglu. Now, Minister of Family and Social Policy, Mr. Fatma Şahin. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0036par0559	Mr. President, I have made a solemn pledge on behalf of the Government for the Protection of the Family and the Protection of Violence Against Women. I salute the High Council. First of all, I want to thank all of Parliament's deputies, all of the parties, all of the members of the group, because we've had a very long process of working with civil society, with universities, with everyone who has an opinion about this, that the women's issue is a social issue, that the fight against women is a social issue, that we need to be able to act collectively, that the process should be prepared quickly, that the commissions should be worked on, that we've had a very long preparation process with everyone who has an opinion on this issue. And we've brought it to Parliament very quickly, and hopefully today, with all the parties' agreement here, we'll take this process, and we'll create the infrastructure of an important legal foundation for violence against the woman. What we lack in 4320 is what we see in our ten years of political history, before we say why we need it, is that social peace and peace pass through the potential of women and men, all parts of society, and sustainable development. So we set out here to put the potential of 74 million into the development movement of everyone, without going into any discrimination, without saying women, without speaking men, without saying disabled, without saying old, without saying young, without saying young. There's one thing we've been saying since the day we went out, there's no politics, there's no politics that excludes women. We said, "We reject any discrimination against women." We thought that the process of the woman was a human rights process, and violence against her was a human rights violation. As we rejected any discrimination, we believed that all the problems that our woman suffered from her color, her disguise, her clothing, were a serious problem, and that it had to be fixed quickly, and that it had to be resolved. So we saw our struggle against women today not only as a struggle for violence, but as a struggle for civilization, for democratization, for modernization. While we were conducting the process of violence on one hand, as individuals, we considered three pens to strengthen the woman: We believed that girls should be trained in the struggle for life, that the equality of opportunities in education should be achieved. So in the last ten years, with everyone's support, education is essential. When we said, "We've organized big campaigns, as a result of very positive work with the Ministry of National Education, and because we've achieved something together, because we've used the positive discrimination brought to us by the 10th Article of the Constitution to increase our right to education. Today we are a country that has reached 98 percent basic education, which provides equal opportunities for girls and boys in basic education. We've done reforms on health, we've taken radical measures, for a Turkey where every child is born insured and everyone takes equal advantage of the health benefits of 74 million. Today, we have reached the rate of mother and child mortality in the European Union standards, which we call the 2015 target. We've dropped the rate of mother and child death by 76 percent, quickly in the last decade, because we said we can't if we don't have the right to life, the right to life. We believed that while she was exercising her right to education as an individual, she had to be financially supported. Therefore, in the 2008 employment package, women and young people have increased the percentage of women in the labour market over the past two years in positive discrimination for our disabled, starting with equal wages for the same work that we took out in the Employment Act. It's a very clear increase, and for the first time, we've broken the devil's leg to 30 percent. We're following our woman through this process in a way that will enable this development, this change, and in every area, but in every field. Why did we need to make this law? We didn't really start fighting violence today. In particular, when I was head of the Commission for Research on the Murder of Töre and Honor, it was a process which began with the struggle that Mr. Minister of the National Education, Mr. Chobuçuk, who was then our Minister of Education, Mr. Chouchier, that we fought that day, and after that, violence against women in 2008 is a social problem and should be done immediately. The understanding of the woman is the beginning of an important political will. For with his understanding, we have played three apes as a society; we have not heard, heard, heard, and heard. We believed that they couldn't go on like this, that the social development move could now be resolved, that they had to be seen. We're building the infrastructure of a very important legal foundation today, as well as that prime minister generalized in 2008. 4320 was a law published in 1998, but it began in 2003 with the establishment of a family court judge. And when the application started, in 2003, when this Parliament, together with 35 years later, made an important change in the TCK, bringing significant increases in punishments related to the rights of the women and the rights of the children, in practice, the women's rights are now protected, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, when they went to the police station, what did you do and what did you do? Did you do that and your husband's lover beat it? Did you see that we started to work in a social process, as well as we did in the institutional sense that each unit, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of National Education, and other ministers of Education began to work? In these pre-divorce and post-divorce meetings and talks at women's shelters, we believed that we had to draft a new law during our talks with men in prison. When you look at the basis of this law, you see the basic logic of this, in the institutional sense of who, how to act, how to protect the woman's right to live immediately, when protective and preventive measures take place, when you can't, and you can't. We've expanded the description, and we've put in a persistent pursuit of women, family members and children. In Osmaniye, especially when it's about ten days ago, and there's a legal gap in which our 16-year-old daughter, who's hurting all of us, is going to say, "There's a legal gap." And if it's a one-way pursuit and the victim is a man, you're the minister of the family, you're always trying to protect the women." If the victim is a male, we, as family members, will protect the men. Men will take advantage of all the rights of this law to the extent that he calls it. After expanding the definition of violence that we put in the Istanbul Agreement -- psychological, economic -- in accordance with the international contract, how are we going to put a protection measure? We found that when we experienced the events in which women were killed in the middle of the night, especially at this point, by the decision of protection, we must immediately authorise the property to the supervisors. We went further, and there's a problem with the right of life of a law enforcement officer, and we've implemented a system that needs temporary housing, financial assistance, and support. It is in this law today that we place the right of our judges to change jobs, and the opportunity to put harm in family housing. A preventive measure: When a man is constantly violent, he has a problem dealing with anger management, stress, which means he's sick, but he doesn't know he's sick. And in the preventive measure here, we're implementing major radical measures in which women will be given psychological support if they want to, along with psychological support for the male, which will be covered by our Ministry. With the child's confidentiality information, we're taking precautions to prevent a different life-threatening threat from getting close to the school and getting to the woman from there. If he's carrying a gun, if he can't control himself, we're taking precautions to take that gun away from him. Especially if it's law enforcement, if gun possession is already in his field, we're taking his gun away from him and we're reviving important sanctions. When we cannot and cannot prevent it, what will happen when it happens? We bring in six months of measures by the judgment of our judges. What if the judge doesn't comply with the precaution, even though the judge has decided, in a drunken way, taking drugs, in any way, in any way, in spite of that court order, that he's reaching home again, we're bringing in an important new precautionary decision here, a prison we call forced imprisonment. Judge, brother, I'm telling you not to come near this house. However, if you are approaching and you do not comply with my decision, I also deprive you of your basic rights and freedoms. We also place in this design a forced sentence between three days and ten days, which is what we call a deterrent, which is actually a system that prevents it from getting close to home. What are we going to do as the Ministry of Family and Social Policy? We're going to work here as the co-ordination ministry entirely. For this reason, the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has served as a major 15th-point change in what we should support in what we call a women's monitoring centers, where the UYAP system is being followed, the process of the courts in the Ministry of Justice is being followed, the process is being fully monitored, the cases are being evaluated, and who needs to do, and if not, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has to do. We care about temporary financial aid because when we go to shelters, when we meet women, Minister, we already have a serious economic problem. We can't read, we can't write, we don't have jobs. Until we get through this process, help us get through this process easier with economic support. We're building the infrastructure of a law that we're on our side until we're on our feet, with temporary financial support against the request, until we normalize our woman's life and we're on our feet, and we're taking radical measures. We're facilitating the alimony system. If it's in the social security system, we're implementing an important legal arrangement where the child support system automatically begins to work without demand or need. As I said in my speech, whether or not the social security system of all health measures, we, the Ministry, will follow it. Regarding our working women, if she is suffering from violence, if she has children, we would like to implement a significant side support for children who are less victimized by giving them day care support in the process. In fact, when you look at the basis of this law, there's a really positive, positive side to it, but I know as a Minister who prepared it and worked it out, it's not very easy for us to solve it quickly in practice. It wants a full mobilization, a good mental transformation. As long as we don't implement a system where women and men's blessings and burdens are shared equally, that women's rights, men's rights, men's rights, and both of them are human beings, and in common areas, that we don't normalize a system where common sharing areas are normalized, that way, that way, that way, that way, as long as we don't illuminate our minds, that way, that's the best, that's the most capable law in the world, even if we've passed it, the most perfect law in the world. So what is the coverage area, what is the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, how will the family be protected, how will measures be taken? We are also at the beginning of a new era in short films where we will announce these campaigns to our people through radio and television. Hopefully, just as we made an important revolution in 2003 when we took out the TCK, just as we made a significant change in practices when we started working the judges of the family courts, I truly believe that today we will all make an important legal revolution in the fight against violence. I believe that we need to put our hands together for other revolutions, and in the common denominator of being human, we need to implement the mechanisms of support that strengthens men and women. Thank you for your support, for your participation, for your knowledge and experience so far, and for all the support you've given me in solving the events you've been experiencing in practice, I'd like to thank all my fellow lawmakers with all my heart. I wish the bill to our country and all the women of our country good luck.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0037par0581	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now on behalf of Kahramanmarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0038par0585	Mr. President, I have made a personal commitment to the Protection of Family Number 181 and Avoiding Violence Against Women. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. The changing order of society and the circumstances that it has brought on the world has also affected the position of the family in our country, forcing her to take part in the business world. Until the Industrial Revolution, women's duties include homes, gardens, and fields. Later, women's place in society has changed more and more. Especially since the 1980s, women have become more active in economic and social areas in Turkey. Although not as much as in Western countries, women have begun to demonstrate their abilities not only as part of a particular profession but also as an entrepreneur. Women in Turkey have a very low turnout in the labour force. That is only because men provide for the household. With their understanding, women are put into work too late. In our country, access to education is an important problem for girls. In rural areas, the lack of girls' education and education at all costs has left women behind in both education and employment. According to data from 2010, Turkey's total population consists of men and 49.8 per cent of women, so the male population and the female population are almost identical. According to our population, the distribution of men and women is much lower in our country, with women participating in the labour force and gaining economic freedom. Women's participation in the labour force in Turkey is one-third of the male's participation in the labour force. According to data from the Turkish Statistical Agency in October 2011, the number of homewives at 11.9 million has increased to 12.1 million people in November. At the same time, women's participation in the labour force has dropped from 28 per cent to 27.5 per cent. In addition to women's maternity duties, the fact that they are considered spouse and housewife by a large majority of the community is one of the biggest obstacles to women's work in a paid job. As in many matters, there are heroic Turkish women who served their country during the war. They've done great deeds, both on the front and off the front. In the Balkan War, the Battle of Çanakkale and the Battle of Salvation, our women who took care of our wounded soldiers sometimes carried ammunition on their backs and sometimes fought bravely against the occupation forces along the front lines with men. The number of divorces in our country, which was 34,862 in 2000, rose to 118,568. There has been an increase in suicides in our country. Again, the number of suicides occurred at 1,802 in 2000 increased in 2010 to 2.933. Economic conditions each day have also increased the number of people under the border of hunger and poverty in our country. Today, 17 percent of our country's population, 12.5 million people, live under the poverty line. These economic difficulties also show itself in the social field. Honourable lawmakers remain 4,342 children in 89 foster homes serving across Turkey. There are also 5,998 children in 53 loving homes, 3,004 and 448 children's homes, with 2,994. All these developments have also increased the violence against the woman, as it has damaged the Turkish family structure. False policies imposed by the government in economic and social areas have caused injuries in many parts of society, and these wounds are getting deeper and deeper. In the Turkish family structure, which sets an example for the entire world, today -- unfortunately, we have to say -- violence against the woman continues to increase. In our country, violence to women appears in different ways, as can be seen physically, in economic, social, verbal, psychological, and sexual ways. A study of domestic violence against women has been conducted by the Women's Status General Directorate in our 51 counties and over 24,000 people. According to this study of women's status, 39 per cent of women across Turkey have experienced at least one time in their lives physical violence, 15 per cent sexual violence, 23 per cent economic violence, 44 per cent emotional and psychological violence. In addition, 56% of women with low levels of education are subjected to violence, while women with high school and upper secondary school graduates are also subjected to violence. In families where the level of prosperity has dropped, the woman's violence rate is 50 percent. The reasons why the woman was exposed to violence simply because she was a woman have been investigated by many institutions in our country. So far, legal regulations and women's guesthouses have not been able to prevent violence against women. Violence against women turns into murder in some families after a certain period of time. Women's murders have increased in our country over the last ten years. On the newspapers and television screens, the state was unable to protect it again. We often witness the news in the form of the newspaper. Even the murder of women who want state protection makes you even more sad. Violence against women in our country often stems from the male rule of society. Women are also subjected to violence for social, legal, social and economic reasons. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, according to the extent of the violence, may lead to suicide, and may also lead to murder. The physical and spiritual dimension of violence has a negative effect on the individual, the family, and the entire community. According to the study in Turkey, 18 per cent of married women are beaten in cities and 76 per cent in villages by their wives. 57% of women are subjected to violence from the first day of their marriage. Again, 90 per cent of domestic crime in our country constitutes crimes against women. According to a survey conducted by the General Directorate of the Prime Minister's Women's Status and Problems, 87 per cent of domestic violence is committed against women. 34% of the violence occurs physically and 53 percent verbally. It can reach 97% in slums. Twenty percent of women are illiterate. Thirty-nine.6% of women in high school and more educated 15-year-old groups are unemployed. 43 per cent of women marry by arranged marriage, while 20 per cent live by common law. Thus, governments should focus on improving prosperity in their economic and social policies. Emigrations from villages to cities are very important. Women's guesthouses should increase the function of shelters and be co-ordinated with relevant institutions. Women's employment must be weighed down in public and in the private sector. The woman who leaves the women's guesthouse and shelters must be allowed to live independently by state means. Instead of managing poverty and unemployment, work must be done to eliminate it. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0039par0608	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. Congressmans, we're going to do 20 minutes of QA now. I'll make a promise to our friends who are in the system. In first place, Mr. Ancestor, please, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0040par0611	Mr. President, thank you. In your intermediary, Mr. Minister, the violence carried out by law enforcement forces under the name of social action and activities, unfortunately, leads to seven-to- seventy targets, severe injuries, and even deaths. As a woman who has been subjected to this violence many times, we can see that there are real serious problems in front of the women who have been exposed to this violence to express themselves and bring the matter to justice. We'd like to know if there's any study by your Ministry to make this violence visible and to power the mechanisms to protect women from this violence and to bring them to justice and make them accessible. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0041par0614	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan... Dear scholar Light... no. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0042par0618	Thank you, Mr. President. The month given to citizens over the age of sixty-five is very low, with the Law number 2022 receiving a monthly allowance. Would you consider doing a study at the point where at which this is raised, at least half the minimum wage will be paid? Second, it is very difficult for parents who are in need of care over sixty-five years old to be taken care of at elderly day care centres, and there are very serious periods. Can't they be helped financially by their own children or relatives at this point? Do you have a study of caring for elderly people with their own family, like the care of disabled people with families? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0043par0622	Thank you. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0044par0624	Thank you, sir. Ms. Ruzar, speaking on behalf of our group, has made a statement: ▪ You are envisioning some financial assistance in this bill. What is the source of these funds, if they are to start this year, because they are also a loss of duty -- $8 billion -- 4.1. Where will you find the source? Also, widows over the age of sixty-five will be paid once every two months. Can you give us any information on the scope of this arrangement and who it may include?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0045par0627	The ones whose wife died?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0044par0628	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0046par0629	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0047par0631	Thank you, Mr. President. It's called the Protection of the Family and Avoiding Violence Against Women. In that case, it is not possible to protect both the family and the woman. Women's organisations want the name of the draft to be changed as a women's bill for the protection and prevention of violence of women and family members to be in harmony with the Istanbul Convention. Women are killed every day in Turkey. The ones who kill are members of the family, like husband, lover, father, brother. The main problem here is that she is not seen as an independent individual, that she is considered only part of the family. However, the ministry, which saw the woman as an independent individual, should have been called the ministry of women, families and social policies, and should have been structured accordingly. And I'd like you to support my proposal of the law on this occasion, with my compliments.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0048par0634	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0049par0636	Mr. Secretary, I visited the Copperville Women's Prison last weekend. I'd like to share with you a few of my impressions there. Jasmine Montenegro, arrested, doesn't have a kidney, works 18 percent on a kidney, has a brain bleed, is under arrest, but is not released despite all reports. Fatma Tokmak, heart disease, life-threatening risk of prison. The gift is Aksoy, who can't see two eyes, who has cancer, who lacks self-sustaining. Do you intend to do anything about these sick prisoners? Also, Shema Özcan is studying in the history of the Bosphorus, one of Turkey's brightest students. The only evidence he's ever been arrested is a phone call to a lawyer. The lawyer's free. Derya Gönen is another student like her. Do you have any thoughts about the student's right to study? In the same prison, Nazire Ayata Civelek and Sparpil Aslan Saşı live in prison with two mothers. Do you have a project about improving the quality of life for them, about juvenile prisoners? And from here, I'd like to thank the Governor of Copperville Prison and his administration and the prosecutor there.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0050par0641	Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0051par0642	Thank you, Mr. President. I was going to take a minute in the off-the-books section, but I'm speaking in this chapter because I attended the Artvins' ceremony at the Memorial. Today is March 7th, the 91st anniversary of Arthur's deliverance from enemy occupation. I'm celebrating this day of salvation for all my countrymen. I'm a scholarship MP. The il Artvin, where I was born, when I grew up, is where I was fed. Greetings to Artvin and Bursa. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0052par0647	Thank you. Mr. Tuncel...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0053par0649	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister with your intervention. First of all, two women of this Parliament are currently in prison. Does the Ministry of Family and Social Policy plan to visit our MPs with a group of women -- political parties, perhaps? Second of all, we're talking about women. Is there any study of legal guarantees in order to increase women's participation in politics? Thirdly: I have mentioned in my speech that in Turkey, there is no information on the number of women working at this status or how many other women working on this issue, about the non-registered employment of women who are first identified as workers and who are working as workers and who are in charge of social security? Because there's been a serious loss. Home services have no place under the Employment Act. Are you going to do a study on this?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0054par0654	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0055par0656	Thank you, Mayor. 1) How many undersecretaries are there in the 24th term of the law, and how many are women? 2) How many undersecretary assistants are there in the 24th term of the law, and how many are women? 3) As of today, how many general managers are in charge of bureaucracy, and how many are women? 4) How many regional managers are there today, and how many are women? 5) The interior ministry is said to have 11 top bureaucrats; there are no women among them; is it true or is it not accurate? 6) 40 per cent of teachers in Turkey are women. In the Ministry of National Education, it is said that there are no women among 27 people at the highest level, is that true or not, what is the truth? 7) Even though 35 per cent of the engineers in Turkey are women, 30 per cent of the doctors are said not to be the only female bureaucrat in the Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Energy, Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Health, in the top position of the Ministry of Health; is that true, and what is true? 8) Although 33 per cent of lawyers in the country are women, the Ministry of Justice does not have high-level bureaucrats; what is it, sir? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0056par0666	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0057par0668	Mr. Secretary, we're talking about violence against women and the protection of your family. The human drama of beating, harassing, and raping Kurdish children at Posant Juvenile Prison is in the papers today. With these children transferred to Sincan Prison, they want to be covered, sealed. Now, we need to question the real person here together. In our opinion, the Department of Justice and Criminal Investigations is the General Directorate because the Execution Act clearly requires grouping juvenile prisoners according to the type of crime. It is clear that these children who have been arrested for social events have been taken into custody by law enforcement and authority in prison. However, the children's physical, spiritual integrity should have been observed. The Ministry is responsible for the first degree of ingestion and rehabilitation as a means of doing so. Now these children have been transferred to Sincan. How will these children's families, their lawyers, and the court that will make the trial provide this transportation, and how will that right be fulfilled? We're waiting for you to answer that.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0056par0669	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0058par0670	Mr. President, thank you very much. First, today is the anniversary of the murder of Cetin Emeç. I'd like to make a call from here to the Justice Department and to all the authorities for all the unsolved murders: the killers of these perpetrators must no longer be found, these people's blood must not remain on the ground, their promises must be kept. My condolences to the family of Cetin Emeç. Other than that, Mr. Minister, you know, as we discuss this issue in the Justice Commission, under the Istanbul Convention, the state has an obligation to compensate for the damage, the damage of violence, when it comes to bodily harm and life-threatening, which unfortunately we have not been able to put into this bill. Do you intend to make any changes in the future? When can you make such a change? Because people live under really difficult conditions, and they're being violent, and they're risking their lives, and they're dying, but I don't think the government's taking care of them enough. Other than that, Mr. Secretary, there's also...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0059par0675	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0060par0677	Thank you, Mr. President. By answering Mr. Ayla Akat Hanım's question, I'd like to start by answering the question of my deputy, especially at this moment in our police department, a serious study of the human and female rights rights of all the staff of the Riot Forces concerned with the intervention of social events has begun. I believe this will be a full-scale education campaign. We, as the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, have completed an important training campaign with the United Nations, with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, law enforcement, with 45,000 of our police officers on both the human rights of women and the duties of law enforcement in the fight against violence. Being a legal state, of course, is a legal basis, but as you've pointed out, I believe that a woman should be sensitive to human beings and such social events. We, the Ministry, will follow the same delicate process as you. I'd like to answer Mr. Right's question about the sixty-five-year-old month and the allowance of those in need of care. Here we started a study at the Department of Social Aid to see what can be done about the amount of 65-year-old monthly. And with our Finance Ministry, we're going to do what we can, what we can do, what we can do, what we can do, and we're going to share it with you as it progresses. Old or young, we have a policy and will to support everyone, especially the elderly, and to support the economy. We'll do the necessary work on that in the coming days. Mr. Ruzar had a question about the source of financial aid. When we began this process of law, we received the approval of our Finance Ministry in the part of our ministry's financial support. We'll complete it within our own budget, and when the demand is too much, we'll follow the process to get support from our Finance Ministry. And in the 2012 and 2013 budget, we're going to revisit our budget based on these demands. Our work on financial support for those whose spouse passed away is as follows: About a year and a half ago, a study was conducted with the University of Boğaziçi. The current economic situation of the women who have passed away, social status, child situation... at the end of the investigation here, when the wives of nearly 150,000 of our women, who have passed away, have had a serious economic problem with their children and with their education, we passed it on to the Prime Minister. There's already a budget in the Department of Social Welfare budget that we've established with the Fund. In this budgetation, we've seen how much support we have to give to the part about these things, and we've seen that we have to get regular help, because some of them are the houses that are already supported by us without Social Aid. When we looked at the income-go balance of these, when we went to the 250-dollar monthly aid, we saw that we would be there for them as a social government, and we made this decision. Social Welfare System information and technology infrastructure were worked together with TÜBITAK. As of April, we're now implementing a system where they can get regular help from their homes without waiting in front of the board and not telling the governor. We think it's an important work for the sake of being truly a social government and for our women, for the children who are with them. We've done the necessary financial work, and since we've seen that 250 euros is now undermining our budget, we've made this decision. Mr. President, to his knowledge. Mr. Sugar told me about the protection of the family, the question he asked about the name in the process, and the proposal of the law. Actually, we've talked about this a lot. In the process related to the Protection Act 4320, especially when we completed 4320, which knew the Protection of the Family Law, 183, along with the Alo Violence Line, in a period when the awareness of society rose, when we continued to call it violence against women, we tried to conduct the process as a social memory of the past, so we put this name on the meaning of revisiting 4320, as well as against the woman's spirit when we merged them together. The protection of your family does not necessarily mean the woman's weakness. We believe that strong family is made of strong women, strong children, strong men, and that the strength of the family does not weaken her. And when we look at the content of the names, and you look at the structural transformations in the struggle against violence on the woman, I want to remind you again that there is a legal infrastructure here that we have, in the context, that protects the woman, that strengthens the support of the woman. In response to the question Mr. Agababa asked about women in Bakırköy Prison, about the elderly, children and students in prison, our Ministry of Justice has been transferred to commissions and parliament, some of them are currently working in the Ministry. What can be done about it? In particular, our Department of Justice has a new configuration, a new system for prisoners and prisoners who can't stay on their own, who are extremely ill and in need of care. When he comes into this life, we hope to implement a new system in which many of the examples Mr. Agababa has seen have been corrected, and as the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, I would like to express that we are working with our social workers in rehab, with our child psychiatrists, with our psychological and psychosocial support, with our rehabilitation systems, with our Ministry of Justice. There's a process that Mr. Tüzzel said about our children in Posance, which has been carefully monitored in public lately. I want to express there that the concept of Kurdish child is not true, that the child will not be separated by Kurdt, or Turkish, that the child, ours, the 74 million, are all our children. The Justice Department has already launched the necessary administrative and judicial investigation. As a result, our Minister has made a statement of will, that nothing that has not been illuminated will remain in the dark. The current rehabilitation, the system in Sincan, will also take place according to their age, according to their gender, and a system in which the victim and perpetrator are rehabilitated according to criminal groups, with a new system. And I'd like to say that, again, as the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, we're going to be one-on-one followers of this system in its pursuit, in its coordination, in its monitoring. I'd like to answer Mr. Tuncel's question. Of course, off the record is one of our most important problems. We're currently monitoring important work with our Ministry of Labor and social security systems, especially about women who work with us, about the higher off-the-book ratios of our working women. Here, how to prevent off the record, how to take radical measures, how to make structural transformations, and when the social security system is mature, we'd like to share it with you again. We did two important studies with both our Ministry of Labor and our Ministry of Industry. Especially with our Ministry of Industry, we've done our work and protocol for the child support of a woman who works in areas such as women's labor in organised industry, where there's too much women's work, textiles, food, and so forth. Right now, with our Minister, in what provinces we're going to do this, how we're going to follow it in practice, we're doing this work. In the same way, with our Ministry of Labor and our violent struggle against women's shelters, the opening of vocational courses in women's shelters, the opening of courses in reading or writing courses or training with our Ministry of National Education, where a course will be opened and the violent woman will be given priority with the ISKUR connection and will find work faster, and we will follow it with legal infrastructure in practice.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0061par0688	Thank you, Minister. Congressmans, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that the bill be taken into section: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 13th article. Mr. Ruzzar Demirel, Eskişehir MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Ironel. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0062par0697	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. You know, 8 Martas, we're trying to raise the law. So there are some mistakes, some road accidents. I've given a 20-minute speech on behalf of our party group before. I also made a point during that speech. During the commission talks, I said that our request for education had been evaluated by the Ministry and that the text had been issued on this matter, but the Ministry of National Education had been forgotten. So the same thing happens when it comes to reporting. There was a clause in the document, but there was no mention of a tip in the text. Look, I'm reading you a sentence from the text: the precautionary decision is to be made at the request of your education. Mr. Secretary, rushing doesn't always help. You remember, we've had a bit of a rushed organ transplant disaster recently. I'm sure by March 8th tomorrow, all newspapers will discuss the shortcomings of this law, the errors of this law. We'd all like to have a law that's stronger, more grounded, answers to the need, protects the lives of at least a group of women, that can make a group of children live in a healthier family environment, but unfortunately we don't see it in this text. But I want to make a point: it's often referred to as the death of babies and mothers in our country when the family and women are spoken. The reduction of the mother and baby deaths in Turkey is not something that any minister, no cabinet, can say, "Ben, we," and no one can say, "It's our place." Turkey, along with Law 224, was set an example for the world in the year 1978 of Almaata, and as the world turns around, as long as our lives are increasing, so are our infant deaths and mother deaths, but since 100 per cent of family medicine, how many babies have not been registered, and how many gestations have not been found? You can't record a dead mother if she's not yours that you haven't identified. Eleven, twelve-year-old pregnant girls were found in our country, you know, and one was in the Minister's hometown of Antwerp, and the Minister immediately showed a reflex. The age of their bones was seventeen. Mr. Secretary, if these girls' pregnancies don't go through the pregnancy register, if the Ministry of Health isn't following them correctly, then we've dropped their infant deaths on the stand with their misinformation, mother deaths. I'd be ashamed of you using their testimony because some facts are not what it seems to be in statistics, because if you're not registering a pregnant child, if you're not registering a child, then that baby doesn't already exist for you, but you're saying that the life right to live is important to us. Isn't that the right to life and the right to live is important to you? For you girls, if they're 17 years old, they have bones. If you're saying that someone else is looking at the age of bone for a young man who's killed, wouldn't you say? Isn't that how the old Karabuluts died? It is not enough to remember only Ayþe and the deceased. There are murders like this. Once you look at people's bone age in this country, someone looks at the age of people's intelligence, the age of their sanity. So, as Minister of Family and Social Policy, with you involved in the issues of the woman's name, you hold on to the phone as a reflex, and we appreciate it, but let's not wait for you to pick up the phone, these women, these children's lives. Not the posant, not the girls who were killed on the school bus in Osmaniye, not our other women. For example, you keep saying that we trained public staff, trained law enforcement, trained judges. What happened to the woman who was beaten at the police station in İzmir? What happened is that the people who beat him weren't punished. We've trained some, we haven't trained some. If you say so, we'll all accept it, but we've been training these people for years. So, what's in your training program? We can't see anything here, there's no mention of your training program. You say the TRT will broadcast. There are a lot of channels in the TRT (TRT) right now. What channel do you intend to do with the TRT? So you might say, let's not make a Kasusistic law. If so, there's so much detailing in this law that I can tell from them that if so, then if verbal violence is involved in the law when describing violence as verbal, let there be written, let there be visual. Let's not go into that much detail, but in a more general, inclusive way, would you consider putting in a motion, for example, for the instigators in the bill? What happens if law enforcement neglects its mission, and what's the sanction? What do you intend to do with 362 personnel all over Turkey? You're saying you're going to set up surveillance units with this law. What provinces? Two years is a long time, isn't it? Let's not let the women die in Turkey, we're in such a hurry, let's raise 8 Marta laws. After that, you're talking about the monitoring committees in the bill in two years. If we're raising 8 things for women, Marta, shouldn't these institutions -- which I think will support shelters, help shelters -- be established much more primarily in the districts of large cities such as Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir? But when I see your personnel limitations, then I find it hard to believe what you're saying about your resource constraint: the Ministry of Finance has been contacted, and it will give us our source. You can't take personnel, Mr. Secretary, 362 personnel. You can't do anything with this staff, but you get a dressing, you can't solve the disease. We're all, we're all concerned about contributing to this right now. But I said it again in my first speech, and I ask the cameramen of Parliament TV to see this General Assembly citizen. There's a lot of people in this country waiting for that law, a lot of people working on it. This law is perhaps one of the most important laws in Turkey. We were all born into a family. The first ones in our lives have always been with our families. Our first laugh, our first meal, our first meal, our first hunger, our first joy, our first step, our first fall, our first cry all happened within these families, and we as a nation have been trying to share the sum of culture to make a strong stand, but I find it hard to understand that the parliamentarians are so indifferent to a subject that people are so deeply concerned about.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0063par0706	Look at your own band!
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0062par0707	I've always appreciated the interactiveness, but I don't think I'll stoop to answering the sentences that were made with the title, because I don't think we have the sincerity to say it, sir. So we live in a society where family is so important, we're all born into a family, and we're trying to keep these families alive, even if we're the only living women, the only living men, we're all in big families. So I hoped that all Parliament, all parliamentarians, would contribute to this bill, and I would ask them to be present here to express their reservations, to say that they have found it right, to support it, especially from female parliamentarians. In the final sentence, I would like to say that we, the National Movement Party Group, will try to contribute with our knowledge as we know, to strengthen the family, to support every legal arrangement to support women, children, all disadvantaged groups. However, I spend these sentences hoping that these contributions will be part of the arrangements made, because most of the statements made in the commissions recently do not apply to these contracts, these laws, these regulations. It's very important to run the legislation beyond regulation, so it's our duty to make the law, but it's the Minister's responsibility to conduct it, to control it after it's passed. It's a heavy responsibility, but if they want support in this responsibility, as I said, we're always willing to contribute to them as the National Movement Party. I want the bill to be a blessing to our nation, to the entire Turkish family, to their children, to their women, to all of them. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0064par0713	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. On behalf of the groups, the second speaker is Batman MP Ayla Akat Ata on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ancestor.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0065par0717	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party on part one of the First Amendment to the Protection of Family Number 181 and Avoiding Violence Against Women. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, I bow before the memory of all women who have lost their lives in the struggle for women's freedom, as a result of the fact that there is a woman's truth in the past of March 8th that resists equality and a massacre is at stake. Again, I ask God's mercy for all the women who have been murdered by political authorities, because they cannot be protected by the rulers, because there are no preventive measures, because the arrangements cannot be made, and I ask for patience for their families. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the process of the bill's formation, we can say that by actually wasting our Minister's time, he has shown a hard work, a selfless work. It has also opened the way for all political parties in parliament to have information and express their views on the issue, as well as for all women's institutions who are operating at the point of preventing violence against women except Parliament, they have been somehow taken into account and again their opinions and proposals on the issue. But this contribution to the creation of the bill has not been reflected in the current text of the bill. Therefore, the last women's platform and other women's platforms that support the violence created by the two hundred and thirty-seven women's organizations are sadly disturbed by this state of the law. Again, it is also necessary to state that this bill is sad to say that it is expressed in the Prime Ministership, the Ministry, and even -- women's organisations -- when they go from one room to another in parliament, to some changes, and they express concern that they have witnessed it. Mr. Minister, it is important to think about who carried out the intervention here. We believe in your good intentions and sincerity in this matter, but whose side did this intervention take place? It is necessary to accept that not only in numbers but also in Parliament, there is a male dominant understanding within the government, and that understanding, when this law comes to the agenda, is revealed from the draft text that is coming to us, although it is meticulously in the process of creation of this law, that it is still clear that the entire Turkish Republic is watching, and perhaps waiting for some results to come out, under the roof of this parliament, there is still a male dominant perspective. Of course, we regret that, but this should be our reason for a struggle -- the process of increasing the number of women MPs in Parliament -- which, of course, is the method -- the quota should not be between the two lips of political parties' leaders, the ratio of female representation to a legal status as soon as possible, and for this occasion, not at the mercy of men or political party leaders, but as a result of an organizational struggle by women. Other dimensional MPs, these women's organizations, of course, were excited about the creation of the law. And we also served in Parliament in the 23rd term. Before the 23rd term, I know that many of our female friends here came from different areas of the struggle for freedom, equality, and, again, they volunteered or organized in the organized structures of this struggle. But when we look at the current draft text, even the name of the law does not take into account the struggle of organized women. In 2005, when our Turkish Penal Code was being regulated -- women's organisations had actually waged a serious fight at that time -- until that day, in TCK No. 765, violence provisions against the public and women under the title "criminals against the family" had been changed in the sixth chapter of the second part of the law, in TCK 5237, in the second part of the second part of the law, in the sixth chapter of the chapter of Crimes Against Persons Against Persons Against Human Rights. Even in Istanbul Protocol today -- which is the protocol that led to the release of this law today -- we again considered the name of the law in the form of protecting the family, while the title of Protection of Women and Family Individuals and Avoiding Violence was being carried. Mr. Minister, the first time he was elected in 2002, when the AKP came to power was referred to as the age of greed, but not only with the extent of preventing violence against women, but your training practices in many areas are much better than your current practice. We were on the side of the change in the TCK at the time, we fought, it was an organised women's struggle, all the women's movements in Turkey were involved in the process, and this was the one that should have happened in our Turkish Penal Code. There should have been no public order, no family, and the arrangement was carried out in the face of violence against women. But we're looking at today, a law like this -- which is the Istanbul Protocol he's been referred to -- is based on protecting the family in a way that goes against the Istanbul Protocol. Our criticism is similar to that of women's organisations. Again, Reverend Minister, we face the fact that seven days and 24 hours of service for women who have suffered violence can receive help and protection in one step is not being organised in accordance with the demands of the agencies, tasks, and services of women's organisations. This is important. First of all, at the end of each year, the budget is determined, the budget for your ministry is available at the point of preventing violence against women. We say it's inadequate during budget talks. In the same way, we say that within the relevant departments of each ministry, these policies need to be set aside a budget for the implementation of equality policies. If we view violence against women as a social problem in both public and private areas, the policies or will that we set to solve this problem need to be realistic. Minister, if we want success, we need a staff, if we want success, we need an economy. It's an economy and a staff and it needs to be defined in an autonomous way so that it can get rid of an addiction principle and be the result of what it really reveals. After all, there's an educational dimension in which these are expressed. Of course, the practice of women going to these centers is also very important because in our society -- although we claim so much, you say it's off, but unfortunately, it's not, it's not -- it's not -- it's not -- unfortunately, it's not -- you're a woman when she's gone, and your husband loves and beats her. Her understanding is both in the arm and in the judiciary. There's a will at the point where what's happening in the family still needs to stay in the family, and where the solution to the problem should be the family, but we have to accept that the society we live in is more than we have to implement violence against a woman, which is still being misinterpreted by religion and the fact that her feudal values are still in life, such as berdel, the ritual murder, the quality of the values of the woman, are still protecting herself. But we're looking at the way these centers work, the staff in which they reside, and we're just going to give education, and we're going to fix it, and unfortunately it's not enough. We have to play our part as role models. When asked about the quota, a prime minister, or a young girl in a social action, is not certain whether she is a woman or a girl. Sadly, a prime minister who says, "Give birth to three children to society or women." Unfortunately, a prime minister who says, "The change at the point of her social position does not provide a model for leading the transformation. A lot of people look up to themselves, you're a prime minister; you have to act on responsibility. If you see violence as a problem with violence, violence against women, in practice, you need to be so-called sincere in action and so-called intimate in action, and the law also includes the Centers for Sexual Violence Crisis. We judge the extent of violence against women and sexual violence separately. Because sexual violence is a subject that must be really considered separately, both at the first time and at the same time, the size of the mechanism that it was transported to the judiciary, from the first interested psychologist to the social worker and again to the lawyer in a more attentive, more educated way. We also criticize the fact that these centers are unfortunately not part of the law. We need to have a more specific study of sexual violence because the violence in this area is more in the family. Although a change has been made in our Law, as a result of the struggle by women's organisations, mechanisms that will allow her to talk about it, explain what she's going through, and respond when she demands protective measures for it have not been implemented in the family. Again, Minister, let's say that the participation of women's organizations in violence and murder cases has not been accepted by us in these cases. The women we couldn't reach were protected by their perpetrators, their killers. This is a crucial point for us. We don't accept that these women should be buried in the graveyard of the orphans or alone while the cases are being followed. Our involvement in these cases has to be absolutely, absolutely legal, which, even if not, women's organizations will not leave these women alone, they will keep their names alive. Again, my respects, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0066par0739	Thank you, Mr. Ata. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0067par0744	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Tomorrow is March 8th World Laboring Women's Day. I say, "Glory be to the working women of all the world and my country." March 8, 1857, in New York, U.S.A., 40,000 weaving workers were attacked by police when women went on strike for better working conditions, killing 129 women in the fire. That is why on March 8th, the International Socialist Women's Conference, which was held in 1910, was the day of the struggle for working women of all the world. So on a day of such a meaningful struggle, we are discussing the bill of women in Turkey to prevent violence against a woman who is a crime of humanity at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as a result of the great efforts and efforts of women's organisations. Women's murders, violence against women in our country over the last few years have increased so much that there could no longer be an audience for this inhumanity. Why is it so violent against her? What is the cause of this great violence of wives, fathers, brothers and sisters? What is the basis of women's murders? The reason for these women's murders and violence against women is that, in appearance, there are reasons such as ritual, honor, anger, but the main reason is that women are seen by men as property, which they claim to be a second-rate human being. For these reasons, men view any persecution they do to women as their own rights. The Civil Law, which was adopted along with the Republic period, saw her for the first time as an individual with equal rights, and our women had been elected and elected before many countries in Europe. However, since these rights were not taken as a result of women's tooth and tooth struggle as in the United States, unfortunately, these rights were not filled, and women did not exercise them well enough. Eighty-nine years have passed since the formation of the Republic, and if there are still murders of tradition, honor and anger in our country, then everyone must question him and his men. We have a responsibility to the people of this country, to the women, to the men, to the children and to the elders of this country, who have sought to rule this country, to the problems of this country, and we can't turn our backs, we can't ignore them. For this reason, we must take every precaution to prevent violence against women in Turkey, to train women and men and all individuals, to create awareness of the equality of women and men, and to ensure the transformation of mentality. The bill that we discussed today -- that's our responsibility -- is a bill that we have to take care of above the individual. We must put aside any political identity and complete the shortcomings of this bill and present it to the public in the best possible way. In the preparation of this bill, I think that all ministers should be set an example for the participating and constructive methods of working together with women's organisations, and I thank Mr. Minister Fatma Şahin. Although the first draft was later changed by women, the draft was re-acquainted with the very serious efforts of the Minister and us. That's why I want to thank all the friends and all the female organizations for their efforts in this matter. The bill we discussed today may not be able to ensure the protection of women and victims of violence, even though it has been more elaborated and improved according to the Law on the Protection of Family 4320 that is now in effect. Because it is not a deterrent of violent and violent behavior, which makes it a habit, which justifys his actions, and is persistently violent. Therefore, the acceptance of the motions given by our group will contribute to the completion of the shortcomings. Although we've submitted motions on this issue during negotiations with the Justice Commission, unfortunately, we haven't been able to agree to those motions. There is a mandatory prison sentence, which can be brought to those who do not comply with protection measures, who practice violence within 15 to 30 days at a time, but this coercion is limited to six months at most. I'm asking all my friends here now: a violent person, think, every time he goes, he bothers himself at his wife's workplace, he disturbs her at school, and every time the judge gives him a penalty of 30 days in prison. What will happen when the six months are up, the 7th time you do the same job, the same way you do it, the same way you annoy and do not comply with protection measures? That is why there are inadequacies in this law for those who insist on violence. First of all, the objections to the name of the bill were not taken into account by the public, women's organisations and our group. In public, requests for the name of the bill to be admissible for the protection of women and family members from violence have been rejected without a reasonable and just cause. I'm afraid Mr. Secretary's reasons for this are not satisfactory. The international agreement, which is the basis of the bill, has been ignored despite the European Council's Convention on Violence and Domestic Violence Against Women, and the Council of Europe's Convention on Fighting These Things. While Turkey is rightly proud of being the first country to sign the international agreement in Istanbul and to be the first country to ratify it in the Grand National Assembly, the same sensitivity is a serious conflict that should not be shown in drafting and naming the bill. In this case, the international agreement was only signed in order to improve the image of Turkey, because Turkey was named by the European Court of Human Rights on 9 June 2009 as the first and only convicted country for failing to prevent violence against women in the case of Nahide Opuz. This naturally undermined our country's international reputation and then signed the Council of Europe Convention on Avoiding Violence Against Women in Istanbul. However, signing international agreements and ratification of Turkey's Grand National Assembly will not be enough to eliminate violence against women, children and family members in our country, unfortunately. First, a transformation of mentality is required. That's why the bill should be called the bill on the protection of women and family members from violence, which means that the woman must first be considered an equal rights individual. Whether he is married, divorced, single, or under 18 years of age, the first thing to be considered is the protection of the woman from violence. Any violence against women and children should be considered a violation of human rights. So in order to protect the family, we can tolerate violence and persecution against women and children, other family members. The name of this bill, such as this could mean something, should be changed. First of all, the Istanbul Convention, which we received as a basis for the bill, was not included in the basis of the bill, nor was there even a reference. Therefore, the Istanbul Convention was proposed to be included as part of the international agreements, and this motion was adopted by the commission because the bill was based on an agreement. It is very important to refer to this International Charter, because lawmakers who enforce the law are generally looking at the text of the law, and, in accordance with the Constitution, ignore or do not know international agreements. In this case, hesitations from the application can be resolved by the judge's discretion, regardless of international agreements. Therefore, it has been a sound and sound decision that the European Council of Fighting Convention on the Protection of Violence and Family Violence on Women shall be placed in Article 1 of the Charter of the Charter of the Council of Europe, to guide the implementation of the bill, to understand the place of international agreements in our law, and to ensure that it shall be implemented as an internal law. The most important flaws of the bill are that despite the fact that it is in the Istanbul Convention, the government has not been included in the bill for the damages, the obligation to open asylums, the ban on mediation and reconciliation, my commitment to the complaint, the legal and judicial aid provisions. Although it is known by members of the panel, who are all lawmakers, that the Convention on Women's Violence and Family Violence, which we approved in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on November 24, 2011, was an internal rule of law, it could result in the absence of part of the bill of rights made openly in the International Agreement, the absence of these rights in our internal law. In this case, I think it's hidden to the international public that Turkey's people may not actually apply these rules while it's promoting democracy, and it's clear that AKP's understanding of advanced democracy and social state. By our group...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0068par0762	Mr. Yilmaz, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0067par0763	Thank you, guys, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0068par0765	Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Ramazan Can. Mr. Can, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0069par0768	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the Bill of Law 181. I hereby salute your delegation. The best among you is that you treat his wife with kindness. If one of you raises your hand against his wife, know that she is not good. I'd like to start talking to the sheriff. Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, who have taken matters into their own hands, have come to the attention of our truly zealous, hardworking, successful minister. I'd like to give a special thank you to our Minister. It was a really clear issue. It's never been handled with clarity until now. Although Law 4320 was adopted in 1998, it was nearly 14 years ago. Over the course of 14 years, there have been a lot of advances in technological, alcoholic and social areas. The need to draft a new law was needed because of the difficulty of this well - intentioned law, which failed to keep up with these developments. I really want to thank the Minister for his efforts in this matter. According to Article 41 of the Constitution, the family is the basis of the Turkish community and is based on equality among the spouses. With the welfare and welfare of the family, the state takes and establishes measures specifically for the protection of mother and children. Here, except for Mr. Secretary, the vast majority of speakers wanted to send a message on the female accent in particular. The family is the foundation of the Turkish community. Without a family, there's no woman, there's no man. I think if there's a lineup to be made here -- I don't agree, but -- in this order, the family should be in the front row. Then the children, then the woman, then the man... if we have to be the leading man among the equals, if we have to rank the women, but the family is the foundation of the Turkish community. I think the future of that country and the future of that nation are at stake if the family is going to crack in a society. Mr. President, in Article 41 of the Constitution, the state has been tasked with protecting the family. Again, there is a half-indulgence in Article 86 of the TCK Article, which will be increased without being asked to file a complaint against the superior soy, lower soy, wife, and brother. Again, it is in our legislation that the decision be carried out in a proper manner, given that there is no immediate need for any complaint against domestic violence by the republic's prosecutors. In addition, provisions have been made in favour of the 10th article of the Constitution, which includes positive discrimination in favour of women. Indeed, the fact that a woman is a persecuted, oppressed human being is a fundamental violation of human rights above all else. But when we try to discriminate against her, we need to avoid things that will weaken her status within the family and thus weaken the family. It must be remembered that every woman is actually a family member. The woman's right as an individual, of course, is important, but it's more important that the family stays together. In all cases of positive discrimination against a woman, it means something, provided we maintain the family's law, because if we protect a woman, we protect a person, whereas the first priority of protecting a person is to keep the family healthy. I think positive discrimination practices should not be transformed into practices that will facilitate divorce, which will lead to immediate disbandment of the family, that a balance should be observed, that a choice should be made, that the rights and legal rights of the family as individuals should be maintained along with the rights of women. In this spirit, I especially urge that the televisions' wedding programs are not worthy of women's honors, and that the TVs observe it. All extreme behaviors and extremes must be avoided. Let's break the man's authority and his sovereignty. There's no need to invite feminism. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I sincerely congratulate you on the 8th March Women's Day of the loyal, humble, proud women of our country. For nine years we've been fighting a really intense battle in every area in Turkey as an AK PARTY. We're fighting to bring democracy's standards to higher levels in the country, to expand the economy, to strengthen peace, security, stability. We strive and work to make Turkey a much more peaceful, improved, prosperous country, especially in education, health, justice and safety. Without a doubt, we're fighting all this for humanity, for justice. But in this struggle, I want to stress that women and children are being watched, taken into account, that whatever we're doing, we're doing it for them first. Wherever in the world, wars and conflicts target women and children first, hitting them the most. Economic crises affect the most women and children in society. Terror, immigration, poverty, as well as women and children before anyone else. Antidemocratic practices, pressures, persecutions, constraints, restrictions, unfortunately, most of all our women and children are in question. So, the reforms, investments, practices, and actions that we've done in Turkey for nine years as an EC PARTY have made women happier than anyone else, and they've had almost silent revolutions in their lives. We've been trying to get the girls to take advantage of the women first. In nine years, at the point of education, we've achieved significant success at the girls' reading point. As far as the girls' schooling rate goes, we've put an end to pushing and pressurizing girls in colleges because of their disguises. With health reforms, we've looked after the mothers, the strawberry women, the Anatolian women, most of all. Let not the mothers of this land weep, nor let their wives be widows, nor their children be orphans. We have done so with determination and determination again in the name of our women, and we will continue to do so. We've shown zero tolerance for violence against women as much as we've shown zero tolerance for torture. With this bill, we bring the most comprehensive, most decisive measures for violence against women. Of course, we're not just going to say "woman" here, we're going to say "matron" because that law includes both children and men. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we, the EC PARTY, are not only in Turkey, but we are the strongest advocates for the rights of women in our region, women in the world. We raised our voices for the women of Tunisia, Morocco, Algeria. For the women of Afghanistan, for Somalia, for Bosnia, for Iraq, for the women of Palestine, for the children of Syria, for their children. On the occasion of the Day of Women of the World on March 8, I especially congratulate the days of the women of Van, the women of the earthquake, our sisters, the grieving mothers of the nation who lost their children in Uludere, North Africa, Somalia, Middle East, the women who suffered for centuries, Palestine, especially Gaza, Damascus, Aleppo, Haman, Humus, Humus. I congratulate you on the days of our old mothers with callous hands. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, what do we bring with this law? The biggest thing we want to bring with this law, especially with the family centers that we've established, is to focus on the necessary rehabilitation and training at these centers before we go to the courthouse, especially on the fact that the person exposed to violence is not to deepen the hostility between the perpetrator first. So I think it's important that after we go to the courthouse, the protection measures will perhaps help the family get back together, deepen the unrest here. The spokesman for the National Movement Party mentioned that there was nothing here about education. However, there is an article entitled education and coordination. On the other hand, the curriculum, which believes in the equality of women's opportunities in elementary school and middle school, is superior to women's rights, under the rule of law, and within the protocol of the Minister of National Education and Minister of Education, I hope this is included in the curriculum program, and I think our generation will be first informed about it, and will be supported in this regard. In particular, in the field of our daughter's education, our Minister has made a special contribution to the school, and I thank you for his support. As a result, I want this law to be primarily good for the Turkish nation, the Turkish family, our women, our young people, our children. Hopefully, as a result of this law, violence will never increase again, violence will be over.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0070par0788	I hope it changes you first, then...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0069par0789	But first of all, I want to say that I think that violence will be avoided as long as we value loyalty, kindness, and respect among family members. The Turkish nation, of course, is a conservative family, dedicated to its traditions, customs, customs, religious values, national euphemisms and grandmothers. I say we should care about our family. Again, I wish the bill to be legalized in these feelings, saying, "Good luck to all of us." I thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0071par0792	Thank you, Mr. Can. The talks for the groups are complete. Now on behalf of their people, Sermin Balık, Elazıg MP. Mr. Fish, please.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0072par0797	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself to express my views on the protection of family number 181 and the prevention of violence against women. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. Unfortunately, the physical, sexual, psychological, and verbal violence that exists in our society no longer exists and prevents and prevents any more human right to live is a common denominator of all of us, when we think of it as politically superior. From this point of view, the hope of our new generations of women who shape society, of our future, of our children and of our people who have been exposed to every form of violence is our common sensibility. The purpose of this bill, which we are meeting today, is to organise measures to protect women who are in danger of violence or violence, children, family members, and victims of unilaterally persistent surveillance and prevent violence against these people. With this bill, the means for swift results are being made by allowing the authorities, judges and law enforcement officers to take precautions for the purpose of preventing and preventing violence. The main goal of the bill is to prevent violence, but otherwise it is the protection of victims who are subjected to violence and the swiftness and effective implementation of precautionary decisions on those who exercise violence. The bill provides measures for the protection of victims of violence and then the struggle to exist in social life. These measures can be listed as temporary financial aid, health benefits, providing housing needs, becoming a profession, completing their children's day care needs, providing legal assistance, and even changing identity, if necessary. One of the innovations in this bill is preventive measures against violent people. These measures can be listed as suspension from joint housing or from its location without restrictions, and the transfer of the dwelling to the protected person, the removal order, the participation in anger management education and rehabilitation programmes, the treatment of any dependency, the participation in vocational courses. Of course, the most important innovation to ensure effective implementation is coercion. This measure aims not to impose punishment on a crime, but rather to force the violent one to comply with the measures. It's a preventive and deterrent application. The crime, which has been violated in the current application, would be a deterrent to the implementation of forced imprisonment with this bill, while it cannot be effective due to the prolonged duration of criminal trials and the failure of the foreseeable prison sentence, often due to its failure to be implemented. Violence prevention and monitoring centres, based on the basis of women's employment, will be carried out by this bill on seven days, 24 hours, when support and monitoring services are provided to prevent violence and implement protective measures effectively. Together with these centers, support services and related institutions will co-ordinate and establish call centers, which will ensure monitoring of registered cases, and will ensure more effective implementation of the law. On occasion of our discussion of this bill today, I would like to congratulate you on the World Women's Day of our devoted, humble, and honorable women. With this law, the Rose World, N. C. And in a world where there is no Ayşe Pashalı, where everyone respects each other's right to live, I thank those who have worked in this bill, and wish them good things, and salute our coven with my respect.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0073par0804	Thank you, Mr. Fish. On behalf of him, Ankara MP Nurdan Şanlı, please come in.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0074par0807	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself concerning the Protection of Family Number 181 and the Protection of Violence Against Women. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, as we all know, March 8th, tomorrow is Women's World Day. I'm here today, on the occasion of my taking a vow to celebrate the special day of all our women. In addition to celebrating the World Women's Day, we need to speak more effectively and bring up women's rights in March 8th and in the following days. Women's rights were first introduced by 18th - century thinkers and began defending women's rights. One of the most important things about women's rights is equality and equality. One of the most fundamental functions of being a modern state is the equality of women and men. The way to become a democratic modern state is through the fulfillment of this understanding, and that understanding must be one of the common ways of all mankind. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important problems in our country is violence against women. In this context, we are here today to discuss the Protection of the Family and the Prevention of Violence Against Women, and the aim of this is to regulate the procedures and foundations for the protection of women who have suffered violence and are in danger of violence, children, family members and victims who are victims of unilaterally persistent pursuit and prevent violence against them. In particular, violence against women is one of the common problems of not only our country, but the entire world. Throughout history, societies based on male sovereignty have excluded women and considered them second class. Studies to prevent violence have only come to light after the 1970s. In war, in poverty, and in all difficult times, it is not possible to understand the persecution of our women when it is known to be heroic with the power of their motherhood as well as their motherhood. The extent of violence, especially in women, is incalculable. The beatings, tortures, and killings that we often see in both writing and visual media are an important indicator of how serious the issue is. Of course, there are economic, social, cultural, psychological, and many reasons for these actions. Family and society are deeply affected by this type of behavior. And the murders of tradition are a product of an unacceptable feudal understanding. One of the most important guarantees of reducing violence or even even destroying violence is education. The progress that we have put into practice is to send me to school, to the girls' school, to the father's school, to the mother-daughter school, and to the education campaign that has been launched across the country through the campaigns will be an important step in achieving a more modern, more educated society. However, in addition to training us to gain more modern, more humane values, major tasks are being given to relevant institutions and organizations, media, civil society organisations and all communities. I'm sure we'll be able to travel some very important distances if everyone fulfills their duties and responsibilities properly. The bill for physical, sexual, economic, or psychological damage or possible consequences of the person's actions, the threat and pressure or the arbitrary obstruction of freedom; physical, sexual, psychological, verbal, or economic behavior, is a crucial development aimed at preventing violence. With this law, I wish our country well, with faith that violence will be prevented, that this provision for the protection of the family and preventing violence against the woman should be good for our country.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0075par0814	Thank you, Mr. Glorious. Congressmans, the talks on chapter one are complete. Now, we move on to the question-answer part for 15 minutes. I'll make a promise to our friends who have entered the system in order. Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0076par0818	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there's a police show being broadcast on a private TV channel called Behzat C., which is called the foundation of the Turkish family. One prosecutor, one public servant, one prosecutor, and the other police officer, are living together in a common-law relationship without marriage, and the police officer is being very hard on the woman who plays the prosecutor, and she is being insulting and abusive. Has your Ministry made any attempt on this matter? Will you request that such scenes be removed from the RTÜK, or from the relevant ministry? There are examples of this on many other shows. In many shows, macho men use violence against women. Are you planning on doing anything about it? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0077par0821	Dear Ancestor...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0078par0822	Mr. President, thank you. With your intermediary, I ask the Minister: Madam Minister, it is unfortunate that Parliament does not play the role of Parliament at the point of a democratic, peaceful fundamental solution to the fact that we have not yet exhausted war, conflict, or violence. As Minister of Family and Social Policy, is there any study that you're conducting to expose the common language and approach of peace with the fact that the family is most affected, given the great suffering that has occurred? If you don't, do you have any plans? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0079par0826	Mr. Tuncel...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0080par0827	Thank you, Mr. President. I just didn't get the answer to two questions for the Minister. I'm just adding one question. I'm adding our mayors to see if you're planning to visit lawmakers in prison. Does the Minister plan to visit our mayors and deputies? Of course, we'd like to be on this committee if he could form a committee. Secondly, in this bill, there are places to prevent violence, but many women are exposed to sexual violence, and they have no mechanisms to express it. Women's organizations insisted on it. Do you plan to set up sexual violence and prevention centers? That didn't happen under the law, but it's a very serious problem. Third, we've tried hard, but it's not in the law, there's no regulation for these homosexuals, for LGBT individuals, and these are the most violent. Trans individuals in particular are very dense... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...they're exposed to violence. Are you planning on doing any work on that?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0081par0833	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0082par0834	Thank you, Mr. President. In recent years, divorces have increased, families are disbanded, depending on various reasons. Children suffer the most from this. How many families divorced in 2011? Is it considered psychological support for children and spouses of separated families? Also, what are the reasons for divorce in 2011? That's what I want to know. Another question was that women who have passed away will be paid. Can't a man in the same situation get paid? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0083par0838	Dear scholar Light...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0084par0839	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in particular for the past four years, where are the government's different ministers and the Prime Minister's commitments to a second job for the families of martyrs and veterans? What good news do you now intend to give to the families of martyrs and veterans who are waiting for a job based on your statements to the public? My second question is, how did your Ministry intervene in the inhumane events that took place in the Posant Children's Prison? What is your explanation for this alleged public concealment for the past six or seven months? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0085par0843	Mr. Tan...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0086par0844	Mr. Secretary, I have two questions. The first one is related to the scandal that took place in Posanti. What has been done so far about these children's victims? Is there a serious sanction? Second: The majority of the people who were killed in the massacre of 34 of our citizens in Uludere district of Şırnak province are from our children's age. Have you made any contact with their families? Did you do a rehab study on the rest of them? And what did you do to repair the victims of these children, to find their killers? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0087par0847	Mr. Sakek... no. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0088par0849	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to share with you recent developments regarding female media workers working at the Anadolu Agency. The prime minister's speech today has also been mentioned to Turkey's Journalists' Union, Journalists' Freedom Platform and arrested journalists. For some time, there has been an operation carried out by Deputy Prime Minister Brent Arinc, Anadolu Agency Director Kemal Özturk. Especially because of the trade union's activities, President Ercan İpekçi is being targeted by a text accusing the union of signing and choosing a place on the map by Anadolu Agency employees who do not sign this text. The threat is being made. The pressure on the workers of the Anadolu Agency, which has been forced to resign from mass retirement, exile and trade union, is extremely dangerous for union rights and freedoms. The right of public knowledge, to know the facts...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0087par0851	Mr. Aslanoglu... No, sir? Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0089par0854	Minister, I'd like to ask you about this, and I've asked our Minister of Labor before: Now, there's a debt of birth for insured women, they can borrow for two births, but for women from BUG-KUR, and for women who are subject to the pension box, there's no debt of birth due to the birth of their children. Actually, it's a very serious imbalance and inequality. We've already told the Minister, but the Minister wasn't very interested. I want your support on behalf of women, like working women, women working as farm workers, women from BUG-KUR, and women from the Retirement Chest, to be able to lend back, as well as in the debt of military debt. We're going to propose a law on that soon. All the women are waiting for it. It's not going to bring any burden to the government, it's actually going to be a price to pay for the debt. I don't think the government...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0087par0857	Mr. Buldan...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0090par0858	Thank you. I'd like to ask the Minister: The women's organisations have intense demands on the official holiday of March 8th, World Laboring Women's Day. In this regard, we, the Peace and Democracy Party, have prepared a legal proposal for March 8th to be an official holiday. Does your ministry have any initiative in this matter? So I'd like to ask if you'll announce March 8th on official holiday. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0091par0861	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0092par0862	In general, Mr. Belen has asked about the series -- but -- when we look at it -- in our recent research on the media, in general -- in the research we've done -- in the Turkish community's case, I'd like to express that I'm personally uncomfortable with these shows, but now the Radio and Television Oversight's Law is working on a high level of complaint regarding the violence, and on the basis of the Press Law. Society complains and watches. We have a serious problem. What we call media literacy is that if a process of ratings is working, if advertising and ratings are working with commercial and financial concern, we have to increase awareness, improve awareness, achieve this: either we won't watch, or we'll strengthen the complaint mechanism. We face another fact: the reported rate is 2.5 per cent. When we talk to the Radio and Television Oversight, they say, "We're starting a legal process on complaints. So we need to strengthen the mechanism to complain if there really is a serious cause of complaint. We have a civil initiative here, by developing civilian initiative, by increasing social sensitivity, and especially American-based, American-based advertising, there is a strong ethical board. If it's disrupting society's structure, it's wearing down family values, which is a powerful civilian initiative that allows those shows and those publications to be removed from public pressure. We need to strengthen that, too. In this regard, we also care about efforts to increase the sensitivity of our people, and the Radio and Television Oversight system needs to be more active, and we care about public spotlights to announce it. Because our people read very little, watching television and having visual knowledge at the most, I think our efforts in these areas need to be strengthened and supported. I'd like to point out that I agree with you on this one. Mr. Akat... now, of course, in the process that we started with the National Union and Brotherhood Project, in particular -- it's a process that has begun on the sensitivity of Ayla Hanım (Ayla) -- we share your sensitivity here as a person from the region, as a member of the community, as a first-class citizen, no matter what religion, as a person from the point of forward democracy, because we believe that everyone is a first-class citizen and that everyone should have to fight for a honorable life, and because we care about democratic opening, and in fundamental rights and freedoms, at the point of being a state of forward democracy. I think it is necessary for us to complete this process with your support, both by economic development and by increasing basic rights and freedoms, at the National Union and Brotherhood Project. Also, we, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, are implementing an important project called ASDEP, which we have created our working model. The ASDEP project, the family social support expertise, is to become a social worker, just as each family has a family practice. In what we call protective and preventive measures, in the fight against violence, in the many problems of society today, and in the protection of women, children's rights, law, we care about a system of study that is based on every family based, each individual based, based on their research. In the two provinces, we're going to start as pilot work as of this month, in Cırıkkale and Karabuk. We'll work two different models from behind. Whichever model we decide on, we care about it with a larger pilot study, especially cities that are migrating and cities in the southeast. If we can bring this social support system to life, strengthen sociopsychological support through our experts, we think we can take protective and preventive measures in many areas that you've said today, and I want to say that I'm a follower. There's a question about divorce rates. Now, especially when we're going to open society, where basic rights and freedoms are increasing, where women are strengthened as individuals, we're looking at the rise in sociological divorce rates as a sociologic case. In what stage are we here, what is the situation in the world? So it looks like we're up from 14 to 16 in a thousand, but when you look at the world averages here, between 25 and 50 in a thousand, the current rate of divorce in Turkey has four times the average of the world. So, the family is now the most important foundation in our society, and it's a happy place for us, especially for families who are broken up in social problems. As the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, we are working hard to implement both pre-wedding education programmes to strengthen pre-wedding support mechanisms, as well as a post-wedding guidance system to strengthen the counselling mechanism, to increase the capacity of our families to solve problems and to strengthen communication mechanisms with their women and their men. I don't know the details of Mr. Corporate's question about the union at the Anadolu Agency. I'm going to discuss this with both Mr. President and the President of the Union, and if there's anything that's up to us, I'd like to discuss it with you and say that we'll be his followers. We had a question about martyrs and veterans. We've done a study here with our five ministries in the presidency of our Deputy Prime Minister about the martyrs. In our work with martyr relatives and associations, the foundations in particular, we've created a draft that will carry out many arrangements in accordance with their demands. A draft of the second employment has now been studied, where many health care services have been strengthened, problems related to accessibility are solved, a certificate of need is not sought, and many problems have been solved. We've come to the stage where we're going to tell our Prime Minister about the draft, and I'd like to express to him that we're going to finish the process in a very quick, 15 to 20 days, so that our Prime Minister can tell our people about it. It's about the pose.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit01spe0093par0870	Thank you, Minister. Congressmans, the talks on chapter one are complete. I'm gonna take a ten-minute recess now.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0093par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 181 from where we left off. The commission is in place. The government is in place. The talks on chapter one were complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are two motions that cover the title of the bill on Article 1: We propose that the name of Bill 181 shall be changed as the Bill of the Law for the Avoiding All Kinds of Violence Against Women. Ayla Akat Sırrıyya Leader Sebahat Tuncel Erol Dora Levent Tüzel Ertugrul Furçı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We are in 181 rows of family protection and prevention of violence against women under the name of the Law on the Protection of Women and Family Persons from Violence. Article 1 of the article. We provide and propose the addition of the sexual preference discrepancy to the joke after the notice of the victim of persistent follow-up. Nedret Akova Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Sena Kaleli Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0094par0023	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0093par0024	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0095par0025	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0093par0026	İstanbul MP Sedef Küçük is the owner of the motion. Here you go, Mr. Little. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0096par0029	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 1st Amendment to the Protection of Family Number 181 and Avoiding Violence Against Women. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, on November 25th, we passed the Council of Europe contract through our Parliament with a large agreement. About a hundred days later, dozens more women have been killed since then. Every day we continued to sacrifice our women to such blind violence. Our hope was in the new draft. We were hoping that the ministry would come up with a plan that would be a deterrent, that in compromise with all of our parliament's parties, it would show a big consensus, as it did on November 25th, and that together we would take a positive step towards solving this problem, but we saw that a shadow of the proposed plan had been cast out. That's not the only way we see it. More than 200 NGOs who contributed to this bill suffered the same disappointment. While the Women's Association for Male Opportunity Commission discussed this bill, representatives of women organisations who attended the meeting stated that the problem could be expected, even though an inadequate law is waiting for an urgent solution, we will raise 8 Martas. It would be wrong to make a incomplete and inadequate law. That's the right approach. Of course, the growing of such a law 8 Martas has great symbolic value, but what is more valuable than its symbolicity is its solution. Laws make sense as long as they come up with solutions. We're all aware of the Minister's efforts to accomplish this. We don't doubt anyone's good intentions. However, good intentions have never been enough to solve problems in any time in history. History writes not their intentions, but what they do, what rights you give, how you achieve equality. Dear lawmakers, implementing laws is as important as making laws, perhaps even more important. So I'd like to give you an example: The European Court of Human Rights says in a decision against Turkey that all legal reforms carried out in Turkey were insufficient for the implementation of the equality of men and women. In Turkey, the political will displays a reluctant, undecided, and insensitive view of actual equality between men and women. This often causes the implementation of positive regulations in the laws to be left to the arbitrary practices of public officials. Is there a single line that prevents public officials from enjoying their practices? I killed him. I killed him. Is there any arrangement against the public official who says, "He's already a hostess, so he deserves a beating at the police station?" However, the need for compelling measures for public servants to change their habits is clearly ahead of us. Women's murders are a result of gender inequality. It's in every contract with our signature on it. Is there a single word in the 25-point law on gender equality that provides this? Dear lawmakers, social equality is a concept that should be stressed in every aspect of life, not limited to this bill alone. The reduction of violence against women is seen only by providing social gender equality. A law that doesn't mention it is a law that is condemned to fail to establish mechanisms that aim at the equality of men and women under any circumstances. Therefore, I am concerned that this arrangement will be inadequate. I say this concern is not only my concern, but the NGOs share the same concern, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0097par0037	Thank you, Mr. Little. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't... The motion is not accepted. We propose that the name of Bill 181 shall be changed as the Bill of the Law for the Avoiding All Kinds of Violence Against Women. Ayla Akat Akat (Batman) and her friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0098par0044	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0097par0045	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0099par0046	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0097par0047	Motive? Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0100par0048	He'll talk to Levent Corporate.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0097par0049	Mr. Tüzzel, İstanbul MP. Here you go, sir. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0101par0053	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. ▪ The faces of our women are the books of our suffering. Our pain, our shame, and the blood we shed He draws women's faces like nightmares. I would like to share my views on this bill with you in the verses of Wisdom. First, I salute the only female minister in the government, the women's deputies and members of our Parliament. In the same way, I salute the managers of women's organisations who have worked hard on this bill and who have failed to find the answer, the roof of two hundred and sixty-seven women's organizations, who have met at the Final Platform to Violence. In addition, I salute the Kurdish women of Roboski, who lost their lives in the work killings of our country, who were laid off, who were exploited under sexual violence, who lost their sons, their wives, their brothers, and the women of our country, who were in prison for their thoughts, their freedom, their future. I'd like to first address the government's approach to drafting this bill. On March 8th, facing the Day of World Laboring Women, the bill is prepared to make a gift and a prestige with a few days to come, but we see that the government is still engaged in women's violence with its practices and policies. Here, on March 4th, Hatay attacked women celebrating Labor Women's Day on March 4, with a baton and gas. Of course, in the case of three children behind the speech of three children, without social security, unemployed, prepared to be left uneducated by the last 4+4 education bill, the women who have been locked in the house, the way they are dressed, the way they live, the way they live, the way they dress, the way they live, the way they are questioned, the metaphors of the Fish and the prisy, the way they call for violence, and all of this is really said against the state bureaucracy of violence in which they invite women to protect, protect family, protect violence. What's the situation of the protected family? In the World Economic Forum, the women of our country are in the 135th position in the report on Genital Inequality, or the 9th from the last. The woman's share in the economy is listed as 29 per cent. Twenty million women over the age of fifteen live in the home of women of our country. In houses that return to small factories, children are sick, women who work hard, women who work hard to protect the family by working piece by piece for a penny with their elders. Women who are forced to submit to abuse, harassment, fear of unemployment, and silence, are our reality when they promise not to get pregnant again. In the workplaces of over 100 women, the right to a day care centre is written in the law, but it's not enforced. In the same way, the Prime Minister's Generality will be audited in the workplace control of gender equality, but it will not be audited. Today, women of our country work twelve, fourteen hours, after a hundred and fifty-five years of the World Laboring Women's Day, after the women who burned to death in their factory for eight hours on the right to work. Forced shifts, low wages, performance practice, uncompromising flexible work is the reality of the women of our country. Women married at a child's age, families victims of war, dismemberment, distribution... In our country, a shelter is built to protect women, but the number of them is 78. Again, the number of staff the Ministry has created with this bill is 320. However, it is required to be 5.577. Now, what's meant to be done with this is to evaluate them as a chore with untrained staff. Human work, true equality and freedom, a system of peace will only eliminate violence. In order to maintain such order, I call on all the women of our country to join hands. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0102par0068	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Corporate and his friends, those who do not accept... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. We have three motions on the 2nd article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in 181 rows of legislation on the protection of the family and preventing violence against women. We propose and propose that the bendi be added after the clause. Nedret Akova Sakine Öz Hülya Trust Aylin Nazlıaka Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Sedef Küçük Social sex: genders, expectations, attitudes, and behaviors which have been uploaded by the community to men and women and are socially edited. It's the 2nd draft of the 181th row. the end of its definition of "violence victim" is the addition of the term "transgressive women," "gay" and "gay" and "gay" to the end of its definition. H) is about to come after me; I) We propose the addition of gender: sexist roles, expectations, attitudes, and behaviors that have been uploaded by society to men and women and are socially edited. Ayla Akat Akat Sırrı Tilleyya Leader Sebahat Tuncel Hasip Kaplan Levent corporate Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the clause B of Article 2 of the First Amendment to the Protection of the Family and Avoiding Violence Against the Women be removed from the text of the substance and that the other dams be identified accordingly. Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat A. Sibel Gönul Mustafa Elitaş Sermin Balık Nurdan Şanlı Zeynep Karahan Good Oya Eronat Do you agree with the last reading motion, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0103par0100	We're giving it to you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0102par0101	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0104par0102	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0102par0103	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0105par0104	Motive.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0102par0105	Motive... Since the tasks referred to within the framework of these provisions of the State and County Offices are based on a temporary clause 1, this motion has been made to remove the definition of the Ministry's municipal and borough managerships from the text of matter, so that there is no confusion in the implementation. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. It's the 2nd draft of the 181th row. the end of its definition of "violence victim" is the addition of the term "transgressive women," "gay" and "gay" and "gay" to the end of its definition. H) is about to come after me; I) We propose the addition of gender: sexist roles, expectations, attitudes, and behaviors that have been uploaded by society to men and women and are socially edited. Ayla Akat Akat (Batman) and her friends Mr. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0106par0115	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0102par0116	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0107par0117	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0102par0118	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0108par0119	I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0102par0120	Mr. Ata, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0108par0121	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have been promised to discuss the amendment motion on the 2nd amendment of the proposed law, and I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, our proposal refers primarily to the definition of gender in a clause, but unfortunately it is not included in the definition. We also think that the definition of gender should be made within the 2nd article. And again, besides women who are victims of violence, we also want to add the expression "transgress women, lesbians, gays and gays." No matter how much we ignore it, it's a reality of our society, and everyone... if we're going to implement gender equality policies, which we're saying here, we're called the second sex as a woman, but even as a third sex, they're not valued, they're not considered, they're not protected, and they're victims of violence every day in this frame. First of all, we've drawn up various laws on hate crimes, proposals, amendments, but the biggest victims of these hate crimes are trans women, lesbians, gay and gay. We believe that this definition must be included in the law. Dear MPs, the social sex: We have expressed the addition of gender roles, expectations, attitudes, and behaviors that have been uploaded by society to men and women, and are socially edited. It is this: Unfortunately, we see ourselves in a struggle to achieve gender equality again, as well as our struggle to implement gender equality policies. Our struggle will reveal the reality of our society in this regard, in fact, at this point, where Parliament must make an arrangement based on the basis of the law laid out on this issue, which must be included. Other than that, valuable lawmakers, the fastest you can be in Turkey is a terrorist, which today is particularly a violence on the Peace and Democracy Party, which is the victim of its greatest loss, as well as our female politicians and voters. Women face the most concrete example of the common sense of transcriminalization as a result of investigations carried out under the name "KCK. " We're fighting the battle that we've been fighting at gender quota, within our own political party, again, for the basis that we see in our own person. But we face the fact that both within the party and in the struggle against the community, it is not protected by the law when the woman is already alone. But we're still in the process of suppressing judgment. In the indictment of our female friends who are currently on trial in the main case of the KCK in Diyarbakır, we will continue to commit this crime if we are to fight at the point of gender equality, by not only defending the gender quota, but also by allowing women to choose where they can be chosen and by choosing women. This is a disgrace for all of us, and if we are to defend it, then we will continue to fight at the point of gender equality policies, if we are to act as KCK people; we will defend gender quota, we will put up policies to ensure that gender equality can be achieved. The most visible of these are our co-chair system, the gender quota we've established within the party, the regulation of the gender quota we've adopted in our charter, and the provisions that we've established in our municipalities where we're in power, protecting the woman in the service statements we've established with the worker. For our boyfriends, who are trying to create the conditions for this violence to be seen legitimately, we place the obligation to comply with the provisions laid out in these contracts, first to be cut off, then, if necessary, to be laid off, and then to be taken away from his wife. And again, we want to point out that this struggle at the point of gender equality is not a struggle that society can accept very quickly because there are roles and status, and at the point of changing these statuses, unfortunately, determination and determination are needed, and again need support. It's not enough that only a woman can properly analyze her social position at this point, but the male also has to meet with feudalism from 5,000 years of sovereignty, which he needs to be able to define, so that a social process that is the result of the common struggle can be achieved. I'm paying my respects again, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0109par0131	Thank you, Mr. Ancestor. I submit to you the motion of the Ancestor and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in 181 rows of legislation on the protection of the family and preventing violence against women. We propose and propose that the bendi be added after the clause. Ayşe Nedret Akova (Fishesir) and her friends Social sex: genders, expectations, attitudes, and behaviors which have been uploaded by the community to men and women and are socially edited. Mr. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0110par0139	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0109par0140	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0111par0141	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0109par0142	Sedef Küçük, İstanbul. Here you go, Mr. Little.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0112par0144	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 2 of the Law Bill 181, and I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, all modern countries adopt a women-oriented approach to avert social gender inequality. We still take a family-oriented approach and look from a missing frame of view in preventing violence against women. Of course, family is very important, but it must not be forgotten that women in Turkey are subjected to violence because they are women, whether they are family members or not. Only reducing the reason for the woman's presence to the role of a wife and a mother, only compression of these two roles can lead to negative consequences as disturbing as it is disturbing. That understanding drives a woman out of life, out of education, out of working life. That understanding sacrifices our women. 232 women were killed last year. 600 women have been harassed, 180 women have been raped. These are the only ones reflected in the press, the tip of the iceberg. Unfortunately, we don't even have a database on this. All of us can only learn as much as it's in the press and as much as the press can. The people of this country deserve not such a country, but a Turkey with equal rights, equal conditions, equal sharing, not the share of women, not a Turkey where violence and death fall. Dear lawmakers, it has been eighty-nine years since the republic was declared, eighty-six years since the Civil Code was passed, seventy-eight years since our women were given the right to choose and be elected. Today, the situation is not pleasant, given where we are in the equality of men and women. To understand where we stand, I won't even mention our rather negative international performance. The rate of women in working life, from police to minister, from police to police, gives us a clear idea of the situation we are in, even looking at the third page of the newspapers. Sadly, an understanding that men and women are not equal and cannot be able to make progress in solving the problems they face. Prejudices, which dominate the vast majority of the society in women and equality, are unfortunately in control of governance. All the distance recorded on the equality of men and women can be turned upside down by the violence she sees in a police station and the attitude the managers take against it. Are there any developments? Of course you do. We signed a European Council contract, approved it in our Parliament. We've already signed the International Convention on Avoiding Every Kind of Segregation Against Women. Today, despite all your shortcomings, this bill will be legalized. These are improvements. But when it comes to practice, it changes color. I'm not saying that the whole administration is malicious, but it's obvious that there have been setbacks in practice over the years and it can't be prevented. Apparently, the administration needs to be convinced that no problem can be solved without solving women's problems. These preconceptions and insensitivity also suggest that we need to make quite a distance to explain that we cannot build a democracy and civilization without women. Once again, I want to underline that there can be no democracy and civilization without women. There is no peace without women. Look, what former Bosnian Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic says: "If women were sitting around the table, there would be no war. Women think long and hard before sending their children to kill the children of others. There is no talk of peace or democracy or freedom in a place where women are seen second class. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are tomorrow March 8th. I celebrate the World Women's Day of all our women. After all, I think no woman should give up hope for a more equal world because we are right and we will win; Turkey will win when we win. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0113par0153	Thank you, Mr. Little. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Junior and his friends: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes in accordance with the motion adopted on Article 2: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions on Article 3: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the first joke (d) of Article 3 of Article 3 (d) be changed in the following way to the protection of the family and prevention of violence against women. Sermin Balık Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mustafa Elitaş A. "Sibel Gönul Nurdan Günlı" Oya Eronat Zeynep Karahan Nice If necessary, if the protected person has children, it will be four months to support his participation in the working life and two months if the person is working, but not half of the monthly net fee set per year for those over sixteen years, and if documented, it will ensure that the position of the ministry will be covered by the relevant arrangement of its budget. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're talking about 181 rows of family protection and prevention of violence against women. We propose and propose that the following declaration be added at the request or after the announcement of the article. Of himself, of his children, and of his relatives. Nedret Akova Sakine Öz Aylin Nazlıaka Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Sena Kaleli Sedef Small Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu Hülya Güven Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd Amendment of 181 rows. the release of the declaration of the clause in the 1st or in similar measures in the 1st joke. If there is a life-threatening threat in the background of the 1st joke, the addition of the word "information" after the declaration, If the 1st joke has to work, if it is to support its participation in the working life of the child through the process of measures for their children, The measures on the first joke (a) and (c) benchmarks are taken by the relevant law enforcement officers in case there is a problem with delaying the 2nd joke. This transaction will be submitted to the supervisor's approval in 48 hours at the latest, excluding holidays. The property will be terminated within 48 hours by the head of the operation which has not been approved. Ayla Akat Sırrıyya Leader Ertuğrul Furçı Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Secret Sakık Do you agree with the final motion, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0114par0185	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0113par0186	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0115par0187	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0113par0188	Pervin Buldan, please.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0116par0189	Thank you. Mr. President, dear MPs, I've been promised a third amendment, and I salute the General Assembly. At the same time, tomorrow, March 8th, World Laboring Women's Day, on this occasion, celebrate the 8th of March of all our women. Yes, legal advances in fighting violence against women are very important. With the intense and long efforts of the women's movement and the positive pressures of the European Union, the Civil Law and Criminal Law have been re-acquired from their discrimination clauses against women. Many international agreements were also signed during this period. In the developing process, these legal provisions have not ended violence against women, but have increased the number of women who have suffered violence. The law, whose name is the Protection of the Family and Avoiding Violence Against the Woman, is unfortunately not fully meets expectations, which we expect to solve at some point. The government and the Ministry, which intend to legalise the law ahead of the 8th March World Laboring Women's Day, intend to give women a gift, are in an unnecessary hurry to enforce the bill. For, the ministry did not take into account the women's actions, their demands and objections, which may be the leading part of this bill in the work of the bill in question. Women's actions are large in the fight against women in Turkey. In Turkey, where the sizes of violence are ordinary, economic, psychological or physical, the women's movement has developed as a rebellion against women. Dear MPs, the government has repeatedly boasted that the Council of Europe is among the first signees of the Istanbul Convention on violence against women, but many positive regulations, which have been made public by Ministry and government officials, are not included in the draft law. The government has not kept its commitments to women and women's actions in the fight against women. This bill therefore does not meet the demands and expectations of women's organisations. Dear lawmakers, the name of the law begins with the Protection of the Family, while the purpose of the law is to prevent Violence Against Women. Even in the name of the law, an approach is felt by a person who sees a woman after a family and wants to protect her in such a way or wants to see her in the family. From this point of view of a separatist and patriarchal mentality, this bill raises concern that it will be no different from the Law on the Protection of the Family now in effect. Article 3 of the draft law shall be decided by the head of the estate to decide on protective measures. Laws under force and measures to prevent violence in other laws were being given by the judge. The law should argue that this authority, which is also granted to the governor, will be carried out effectively. The lack of adequate equipment and experience is another problem. Hence, they need to be trained in women's rights and violence. In the same article of the bill, the implementation of non-approved transactions is terminated within 48 hours by the head of the law. In the event that the period of work is exceeded, the woman is still left in the arms of the perpetrator. I hereby request the acceptance of our amendment proposal, and salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0117par0199	Thank you, Mr. Buldan. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Buldan and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're talking about 181 rows of family protection and prevention of violence against women. We propose and propose that the following declaration be added at the request or after the announcement of the article. Aylin Nazlıaka (Ankara) and his friends Of himself, of his children, and of his relatives. Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0118par0207	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0117par0208	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0119par0209	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0117par0210	Mr. Nazlıaka, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0120par0212	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to discuss the 3rd Amendment of the Law on Protection of the Family and Avoiding Violence Against Women. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, as we all know, violence against women is a crime of humanity. The bill that women's organisations have been working on for months has unfortunately come from the Council of Ministers to the Parliament, transforming, and diminishing. In fact, the mentality that ignored the woman in this bill has shown itself since June 12th. The Ministry's name was first named after the woman, and then unfortunately there was only one female representative in the Council of Ministers. In this sense, Turkey, unfortunately, is ranked in the 90th place in the cabinet in 96 countries, in terms of women's representation. A number of changes to the education of our students were then made. For example, inside the class of citizenship and democracy, the section on CEDAW, or the Convention on Avoiding All Species Against Women, has been removed. Again, from the context of the same lesson, the episode of the Girls' School campaign was also released. Now -- at that time -- I referred this to the Minister of Education, the Minister of National Education -- and I understand that this campaign will no longer continue, and the name of the campaign will no longer be called 4+4+4 after the education bill, not Girls' School, but Girls' Daughters' Change to Husband, it seems. There are some elements in the draft of the law that we object to, starting with the name, as you know. I wonder why the name of the Law Bill has bothered you that women and family members should be protected from violence. The AKP government, proud of being the first and ratifying country to sign the Istanbul Agreement, did not include the Istanbul Convention (B) and any other international contract in its draft law to parliament. Under the draft of the law that came to the Justice Commission, motions and international contracts have been added back to the text of the law. One of the things that I find difficult to understand now is why this draft law that women's organisations have been working on for months has been reduced and transformed into Parliament. I'd like to stress one more important lack of the law. The bill does not mention trans women. Nine trans women were killed in 2011. Of course, this is a number transmitted by LGBT organizations, unfortunately we don't know what the official number is, but we think it's much higher. And how is this law going to prevent trans-woman murders when it's ignoring trans-women? Gender identity, sexual orientation, will it once again be ignored? Under Article 3 of the draft bill, the judges have been given authority over property as well as the judges, due to the lack of protection of serious issues and victims of violence, due to the lack of protection measures. In our country, where we stand 88th place among 143 countries, in women's employment, in the lowest rank among OECD countries, in which we cannot protect 73 per cent of women seeking protection from the state, in which the violence against women has increased 1,400 per cent in the past decade, in public and politics, the women's problem is above parties. March 8th, the Day of the Working Women is the day that women have earned rights by scratching with their fingernails, by paying for their lives. I don't think we should celebrate March 8th World Laboring Women's Day, pretending to fight violence against women. In Erzurum, the women of this country are Nene Hatun. In Sultanahmet Square they are Halide Corporal, one of the women's first representatives in parliament, Behice Boran, the revolutionary Behice Boran, the Turkan Saylan, who split his life into the education of the girls, and the light of science is Bahriye Threeok-tur, who was killed on the basis of the ceremony. I salute all the working women of my country, and in the presence of the High Assembly, of all the women of my country, of such a incomplete bill... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm sorry it's going to be legalized.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0121par0225	Thank you, Mr. Nazliaka. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Nazlıaka and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the first joke (d) of Article 3 of Article 3 (d) be changed in the following way to the protection of the family and prevention of violence against women. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends If necessary, if the protected person has children, it will be four months to support his participation in the working life and two months if the person is working, but not half of the monthly net fee set per year for those over sixteen years, and if documented, it will ensure that the position of the ministry will be covered by the relevant arrangement of its budget. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0122par0233	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0121par0234	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0123par0235	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0124par0236	Mr. President, this motion was issued during this decision. So what time will it be paid? For the duration of the precautionary decision or just four months? I mean, is it four months, two months, yearly, no matter what?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0123par0237	As suggested, Mr. President, four months and two months.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0124par0238	Sir?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0123par0239	Four months and two months, as suggested.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0124par0240	Four months and two months, but during a precautionary decision?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0125par0241	No, no, four months and two months.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0124par0242	So it means no more than four months...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0125par0243	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0124par0244	It'll only be four months.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0125par0245	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0124par0246	After that, if there's any need...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0126par0247	We're assisting until we can get a job.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0124par0248	After that, backup, but you only give it four months, I get it, four months for once.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0127par0249	I'm reading the reason: This proposal was made to ensure that the person protected in the matter will be granted the possibility of a day care centre and that the protective measure decision to be made will be implemented in a clear and clear manner. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit to your votes in accordance with the motion adopted by Article 3: Those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are four motions on the fourth article, which I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As well as the provisions of Article 3 of Article 4 of Article 4 for the Protection of the Family and Avoiding Violence Against Women, we provide and propose the removal of its declaration from the text of substance. A. Sibel Gönul Ahmet Aydın Mustafa Elitaş Sermin Balık Mehmet Doğan Kubat Nurdan Şanlı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in 181 rows of Family Protection and Avoiding Violence Against Women. Article 1 of the article. In accordance with the laws of witness protection, we propose and propose that the following declaration be added. Nedret Akova Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Hülya Güven Aylin Nazlıaka Sakine Öz Sena Kaleli ..and to be implemented by the authorities and authorities envisioned by this law...... he, his children, and his relatives.... It's the 4th draft of the 181th row. If there is to support the participation of the victim of violence in the working life of his children, we would like to propose that the payment be provided under this Law, provided that the possibility of a day care centre be added. Sebahat Tuncel Hasip Kaplan Sırrıyya Leader Ayla Akat Erol Dora This is the 4th draft of the current 181 row. We would like to add the following (d) bequest to come after the article's (1) joke, based on the consent of its interest received after its notification. D) In decisions made or made by the judge, child surrenders will be carried out in the presence of expert officials provided by the Ministry to determine the parties' common acquaintances or the Ministry to determine and cover expenses. Oktay Vural Alim Mehmet Erdogan Reşat Right Enver Erdem Mustafa Kalaycı Does the Commission agree with the final motion?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0128par0290	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0127par0291	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0129par0292	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0127par0293	You don't agree.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0130par0294	The scholar Light will speak.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0127par0295	A scholar's light. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0131par0298	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding the protection of family number 181 and the prevention of violence against women on Article 4 of the Law Bill, which I hereby salute you all. On March 8th, the day before World Women's Day, I wish our women, despite everything, to the best of our legal negotiations that we had begun to be raised to that day. I think the woman's location is well known to all of us in Turkish family structure and Turkish culture. In the event that the family's most important product and assets are separated from the parents, we envisioned an arrangement that will at least allow them to see their children when they want them to see their children, and when they want them to find comfort in their parents. I'm not surprised that the Minister and the Commission don't participate, but I hope you'll understand more about how important the supplemental memorandum is in the event of a family like this, so that God doesn't give it to anyone. The goal here, valued lawmakers: If there is a decision on a personal relationship between a child and his children by the judge, a decision has been made to suspend the individual according to the legislation that is now in effect. For this purpose, the individual, the parent, will invest $100 and then 100+100 in the social worker, and 100+200 in total, and will see his child one day in accordance with the judge's decision if he wants to see his child. The proposed bench aims to at least ease the payment to non-payable individuals, as long as it is met by the ministry, and ensures that the child's future and the integrity of the family's disintegrated structure will be ensured. But today, of course, the man who has to provide child support from family members, on one hand the rent, on the other the child's child's alimony, on the other the child's child's child's alimony, on the other hand, is going to feed him at the restaurant -- his own rent -- and if he raises money, he will be able to invest 300 euros for a day's discussion. We think this arrangement is important, but appreciation, of course, is our great Council. On this occasion, I think it would be helpful to share this matter with you. On the other hand, I expect your support for the motion, and I salute you all again, in addition to international agreements by which Turkey is a party.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0132par0306	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. It's the 4th draft of the 181th row. If there is to support the participation of the victim of violence in the working life of his children, we would like to propose that the payment be provided under this Law, provided that the possibility of a day care centre be added. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0133par0313	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0132par0314	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0134par0315	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0132par0316	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0135par0317	The Golden Tan will speak.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0132par0318	Altan Tan, come in. Mr. Tan, do you have an autograph here? I don't think so, if you could just sign...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0136par0320	Is it now, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0132par0321	Yeah. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0137par0324	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, if there is a need for children to support their participation in the working life of women victims of violence, we would like to propose that the payment be added to the law, provided that the possibility of a day care centre is met within the scope of this Law. You know, violent women are a major wound to our society, and perhaps the most important reason why our women are constantly exposed to this violence is that they do not have economic freedom, because it is not possible for a woman with economic freedom to accept such pressure, violence, and abuse for a long time, in some way, to keep her life separate from her husband or the person she lives with. There are some studies in Turkey today, even if they are insufficient to protect women who are victims of violence, and there are places of interest, such as women's shelters. But, of course, as you appreciate, this is not the end of the issue, and after the woman's asylum, she has to be able to live her life, and in order to live her life, she has to work. And in this study, the biggest obstacles of our women, most of whom have children, are that they have no one to take care of their children. Women who have already taken refuge in a women's shelter or have been left out in some way have been significantly disconnected from their own families. Our offer is to provide shelter and employment for our women in this situation, as well as care for their children, so that they may have a human condition. It's a very human and conscientious offer, but whatever it is, no proposal from the opposition to the General Assembly, unfortunately no party of the ruling party, those who agree... those who don't accept it... it's not accepted. The heart wants to, friends, if it's a problem for us to bring these materials in, you bring them in, let's say yes. But let's try to find the truth here with certain negotiations. Otherwise, there's no way we're gonna get anywhere if we keep denying what we've brought. Likewise, an example of this: just after Parliament began its work on October 1st this year, some of the friends who belonged to our group, including myself, offered a law. Here, both the wearing of pants, or the wearing of women's lawmakers' pants, opened the way for women's lawmakers to enter the parliament with a headdress covering their headscarf because of their faith, and the obligation to wear a tie was lifted. However, as usual, this proposal was rejected by the ruling party lawmakers, which we are celebrating today -- March 8th, Women's Day of the World -- which I celebrate tomorrow, the 8 March Women's Day of all our women, and the Women's Day of our working women -- has been rejected. No other group has been abused in the history of politics as well as the headscarfed women, and today, many previous parties, including the ruling party, have gone on to win at least seven or eight elections with this abuse. Its greatest effort, door-to-door, neighborhood-to-door, writing, vote, vote, vote, vote, vote, vote, vote, and, unfortunately, the headscarved women who have offered from head to intellectual contribution have not been represented in the House, and the victim remains. A politician who prayed in the 2002 elections said that the cover issue in Maraş Square is our duty to honor. After that, he served as Parliament Speaker for five years, the debt still stands in Maras Square. Dear friends, disguises, you see, the tie is not mandatory, and there's a reason for that: we are one of the few nations in the world who can't enter the National Assembly in their own national outfit. In the Israeli Parliament, the Prime Minister puts on his hat and hat and leaves; Arabs, Indians, Pakistanis enter in their national clothes; British lords attend in their wigs. And I offer this to your attention. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0138par0333	Thank you, Mr. Tan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in the 181st row, where we're talking about the protection of the family and the prevention of violence against women. Article 1 of the article. In accordance with the laws of witness protection, we propose and propose that the following declaration be added. Hülya Trust (Izmir) and his friends ..and to be implemented by the authorities and authorities envisioned by this law...... he, his children, and his relatives.... Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0139par0341	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0138par0342	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0140par0343	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0138par0344	Who's gonna talk? Hülya Trust, here you are, sir. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0141par0347	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group to express our opinion on the proposal for the Protection of Family Number 181 and Avoiding Violence Against Women. First of all, if we read the reasons for the proposed bill, civil society institutions have thus far needed to prevent violence against women, violence is increasing. We see the current government confessing that it has not yet taken precautions. The reason for the draft law says: "In recent years, violence against individuals, especially women, has reached the height of our society. Violent incidents, such as beatings, tortures, and murder, are monitored in visual and written media. More women and children are exposed to these events. It is called, it continues. Because of this, we say that the Law for the Protection of the 1998 Family is weak in content and renewed for it this year, this year it has been renewed. In 2007, the Law was also under way, and it must have been forgotten. Even though civil society organizations are in our laws, what is there that they want but cannot be done? To review these requests, their first request is to apply for violent women and to increase the number of shelters. Is there a legal obstacle to this? No. It could have been done so far. Another is counseling, counseling, psychological and medical support for women who have been abused, legal aid. There's been a process that's been going on for ten years, but it's not been done, it's not been done, it's not enough staff. And thirdly, sexist policies. They want laws and practices to be lifted, action and education projects to be carried out with women's organisations. Instead of working with women's organizations, we have made an effort to destroy their proposals at once. NGOs want to remove obstacles to women's work for economic freedom. Women's work, though we encourage it, is not actually encouraged, but it is prevented. Women are usually employed in low-level and low-paying jobs. The number of women in charge is limited by fingers. In the house, in the street, in the workplace, in detention, in prison, they wanted those responsible for the violence against the women and children to be tried and deterrent legal measures taken. Today, while our college students are being punished for cutting their hair, we're living in the police station where there's no need for officers who beat up women. All these requests appear to be inadequate in implementing them when they are in our current laws. The shelters are inadequate. Couldn't it have reproduced by now? Women's turnout rate is low. Not even Bill 181 has been released for a year; in the last two days, there has been enough undisputed attempts to remove it. For the sake of health... we know that health is now well-funded, and even our non-profit citizens are facing increasing contributions. For all these reasons, we propose that the first joke of Article 4 (c) be edited in the way we recommend, so that every article of the law may not be misinterpreted and apply in a broader way. On this occasion, I give my regards to all of our women, the World Laboring Women's Day, March 8th. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0142par0364	Thank you, Mr. Trust. Your Honor, I submit the motion of your friends and Trust to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As well as the provisions of Article 3 of Article 4 of Article 4 for the Protection of the Family and Avoiding Violence Against Women, we provide and propose the removal of its declaration from the text of substance. Oya Eronat (Diyarbakir) and her friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0143par0371	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0142par0372	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0144par0373	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0142par0374	I'm reading the reason: It is understood that the measures mentioned in the Article are not made by the judge, as it is stated that one of them, or some of them, or the appropriate measures can be decided by the judge. Therefore, there is no need for the provisions of Article III, as well as for the description of the article. In addition, this motion was made to ensure that these measures specified in Article 3 should not cause false comment that these decisions must be made by the judge and thus ensure that the measures be taken quickly and effectively. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted on Article 4, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 5 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in the 181st row, the 5th amendment to the protection of the family and preventing violence against women. Article 1 of the article. After the declaration of violence by those who practice violence, we offer and offer the addition of the declaration to those who are likely to use violence and those who help those who use violence. Ayşe Nedret Akova Hülya Trust Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Sakine Öz Aylin Nazlıaka Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 5th Amendment of 181 rows. Article 1 of the article. The addition of the declaration of violence to individuals who may or may not have applied after the declaration of violence, If there is to support the participation of the victim of violence in his working life, we propose that the cost be added to the care of the day care centre, provided that the law provides the payment for his children. Ayla Akat Sırrıyya Leader Ertuğrul Furçı Does the Commission agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0145par0396	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0142par0397	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0146par0398	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0142par0399	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0147par0400	Sebahat Tuncel.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0142par0401	Here you are, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0148par0403	Mr. President, Congressmans, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party on the basis of our amendment to the matter. I salute you all. In fact, the fact that there are so few MPs in the debate of this bill -- both from power and opposition -- shows how much we value the equality of men and women in Turkey, and how much we value women's policies. I'd like to remind you once again that we still have a lot of ground to cover. In other matters, lawmakers are more excited here, but this is a point that affects our lives. Now, in general, something has been said: "Let this bill be good for women. " Whereas men will be affected by it, a point that will change a whole life. Now, in general, the approach that we're dealing with here against the protection of the family is causing some criticism as to why we need to protect the family. Instead, let's protect the family, yes, but which family will we protect? That's an important point. You mean a democratic family? A family that doesn't abuse family members? A family that really means our future, or a traditional family? Congressmans, remember that for thousands of years the male dominant system -- it has a 5,000-year tradition -- has shaped our entire lives, politics, politics, culture, language -- a 5,000-year traditional approach, the family model, is not the solution to mankind's problems in the 21st century today. His traditional, taught roles in manhood and femininity are actually responsible for the painting we're facing today. As long as that doesn't change, as long as you're trying to maintain the traditional family structure, unfortunately, violence will continue. There is justice in the source of violence, power, extortion. Now, in the current case, this is exactly what's in the family institution. These relations that are to be changed are the relationship of power; there is no inequality within this foundation. Let's say in a family where men and women are not equal, children and raised family members are not raised equally. In that sense, rejecting this family institution is a new model of democratic, egalitarian, a family where family members don't impose on each other, they don't oppress each other, they don't crush each other, neither the age hierarchy, nor the male-female relationship, they don't exist in a place where they protect their inequality. Yeah, let's protect this family, support this family, but that's not the issue here. Another point: especially the struggle for feminism is an important point for making this point visible. So far, the male dominant system and mentality have always described feminism as male hostility. Feminism, on the other hand, is a woman's salvation ideology, a woman's perspective on society. In this regard, men need to reinterpret the system from a woman's point of view, otherwise it is impossible to talk about a change. From that point on, we're going to revisit the family institution. Let's say we're going to fight for the development of the democratic family together. But we can only create a new society by rejecting the roles of women and men that we've been taught traditionally, by redefining the roles of men and women, by creating a new language, by changing the language, culture, identity, mentality that we've been taught for 5,000 years; then this law will have meaning. Now, the law comes out, and we'll soon see, there will be no practical consequences, because those who apply it will still continue according to the male mentality. In fact, many women are in a position to maintain that mentality, unfortunately. In that respect, lawmakers, it's not enough just to make a law. The difference is, yes, let's create awareness, let's create awareness, let's create social change, transform; let's make the change, transformation of individuals in society so that these laws, laws that we've made, can make sense of it. In that sense, an example of Adana was given, and she applied eight times, but she was sent home eight times to protect her family. Most of the time, in the name of honor at work, most of the time, so there's no gossip, but how can my daughter be like this? Do you know how many women are killed by her approach? I mean, isn't that the mindset today that's killing women in the name of honor, in the name of decency, in the name of the beloved, and finding a motive for all of them, blaming the woman? He never blames the man. When it comes to decency, the first woman comes to mind, never a man. So, as long as this approach doesn't change, let's make as much legal changes as we want. It doesn't make any sense. In that respect, I say to all those in this parliament, especially to men, especially men, that there is no new change without the equality of gender, and violence, unfortunately, will not be eliminated, I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0149par0413	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. I submit to you the motion of Mr. Tuncel and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in the 181st row, the 5th amendment to the protection of the family and preventing violence against women. Article 1 of the article. After the declaration of violence by those who practice violence, we offer and offer the addition of the declaration to those who are likely to use violence and those who help those who use violence. Hülya Trust (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0150par0420	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0149par0421	Your Honor, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0151par0422	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0149par0423	Mr. Hülya Trust, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0152par0425	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the protection of Family Number 181 and to prevent Violence Against Women in exchange for the first amendment to Article 5 of the Law bill. According to studies, lawmakers have shown that at least 40 per cent of women in Turkey have suffered at least one period of their lives as partners. As the bill says in its motives, violence has also increased rapidly due to the unsubstantiated attitude and behavior that the government has shown over the past decade. In fact, the goal of the law is primarily to protect women and children with a human right to protect their lives from violence, so that other relatives involved in violence should be included in the measures that must be taken to protect women and children from violence. We can give many examples of this in our lives, in the newspapers, in many hearings and visual media. For example, a case of sanda. It's not violence. What is it? Those who condone it and encourage it share in violence. Our newspapers recently mention women who committed suicide because of the sand in Urbana. Another example is children's apprentices and children's brides. We encourage children's brides, children's apprentices, with 4+4+4. When children who have given up their education have grown up, they will apply the same violence to their own children and wives. In this way, an uneducated, non-violent population will grow and our country will go back, not forward. Today, again, I'd like to talk about growing children's brides in recent years. Parents marry their children at an early age, knowing or not, out of necessity. When they're pregnant, the mothers who give birth to children can't even hug their babies because they're underage, they can't even say they're our children, they register over their mother-in-law, and yet they're facing the real baby instead of playing with dolls. His health and the health of his baby, which, by the way, is disappearing. The main reasons for early marriage for girls are poverty, or poverty, and also traditionally the knowledge that obedience to a husband can be taught at an early age. Today, it has been revealed that one of the three women in Turkey have been married to children, and today children are married to 40 years old, 50 years old, 60 years old, even 70 years old. When we talk to mothers, mothers who get married at an early age say they certainly don't want their daughter to get married at an early age. They say, however, that they suffer from poverty and that they find no alternative because of unemployment, so they marry their children, their daughters. Again, we know that in our country, women are subjected to various forms of violence in every aspect of life. News of women still stoned to death in our country, victims of honor killings, mass rape, suicides in an uncertain manner is increasing. It is clear that the removal of violence and consequences against women will be possible primarily by responsibilities of the state and political authorities, bringing legal and social policies to life. Therefore, the first joke of Article 5 of the bill must also be added to those who may use violence after the declaration of violence and help those who exercise violence. He says thank you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0153par0433	Thank you, Mr. Trust. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Trust and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. There's a motion on item 6 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in 181 rows of legislation on the protection of the family and preventing violence against women. Article 1 of the article. We propose and release the following statement by removing the last notice of the joke. Ayşe Nedret Akova Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Hülya Güven Sakine Öz Aylin Nazlıaka Sena Kaleli It doesn't fit. A delay in crimes committed by violent offenders during the implementation of the protection measures of this law does not apply to a postponement of the sentence, turning it into money. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0154par0448	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0153par0449	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0155par0450	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0153par0451	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0156par0452	Mr. President, lawmakers, I would like to report to you now the regrets regarding the matter that has just been voted, because we have all spoken together in Article 4 of the Justice Commission, and we have decided that the 3th Amendment property states the powers of the chiefs and the measures that they can take, and the 4th article is the measures that can be made by the judge. We thought that the authority given to the governor should be given to the judge in the same way, because they thought the judge should have a broader authority on this issue, and we had added a provision in Article 3 of Article 3 of the Court of Justice, as well as a provision of the Court of Justice talks, but unfortunately a group of our friends -- the AKP Group -- was accepted in this way, in this way, regarding the removal of the material that was added to the judge. I think it's a very serious mistake, so if you don't give the judge the authority that you're giving the property to the chief, such as the right to housing, for example, to provide financial assistance, you're going to have a lot of serious problems in implementing it. So when his property is rejected by the supervisor, only the family court judge will be able to go to the appeal, and the family court judge will give it to him at his convenience, and then these powers that must be used urgently will not be used, and people will be unable to protect themselves from violence because of their exposure to violence. And therefore, I would like to say that it is not appropriate for this to be removed here, and that it is not appropriate for me to take it out of the Justice Commission when we've all discussed it, discussed it, and decided to take it out, that I don't like to take it out, that I strongly protest it, because it is not in accordance with the purpose of the law. Other than that, I have now made a promise to my dear friends and dear ladies, that if a crime was committed here during protective measures, for example, that man or father or brother or husband, came, knocking on the door of the house, cursing, cursing all sorts of things, for example, he injured the person there, the woman, the family, the child, and, in this case, the punishment that would be given to them, that I should not be reprieved, or that I should be delayed, or that the verdict would be put out during protective measures, because you're offering protection measures. What are the protection measures given by the judge or by the management of the property? You won't go near it. You won't go to your wife's workplace. You say, "You won't disturb your child at school." But then, when this is violated, and especially when there's an aggressive attitude, there's things going on until the wound or the killing, judges have not achieved their goal because they can reduce such fines, such as controlled freedom, money, or convert them into money. That's why I've just been talking about the general, which is why the subject of deterrent has not been brought up enough in this law. That's why I think we're against this, that our motion should be accepted, especially in order to make a note of history, that our female friends should accept this motion. And friends -- I may never get another word out of it -- the Istanbul Convention that we're basing on is also said that shelters should be established, and that the state should have the necessary investments in this matter, but unfortunately we haven't been able to get that into the draft proposals that we've made in the Justice Commission. We'll have our motions in a moment. And I expect the support of all our friends in that regard because if you keep the woman, the child, or the family members out of the house, if you don't open enough shelters, if you can't safely have those people there, then the measures you're taking -- whether it's by law or by the boss -- will mean nothing. Those who are protected must have shelters where women, children, and family members can be safe. Moreover, our agreements, international agreements, international agreements from parliament, it would be a grave mistake for us to ignore, ignore, and not make a statement to the law when the Istanbul Convention puts such a burden on us. Furthermore, the prime minister says the reason for this transfer of the Istanbul Convention to parliament is that women and violent people will be protected better. The one they were given...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0157par0457	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit to your votes the motions of Mr. Yilmaz and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 6th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 7 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in 181 rows where we're dealing with the 7th amendment to the protection of the family and preventing violence against women. Article 1 of the article. We offer and offer to release the notice of his joke by removing the notice. Ayşe Nedret Akova Hülya Sakine Öz Aylin Nazlıaka Sena Kaleli Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mr. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0158par0470	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0157par0471	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0159par0472	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0157par0473	Your Highness, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0160par0475	Congressmans, I have made a commitment to the Protection of Family Number 181 and Avoiding Violence Against Women under Article 7 of the Law Bill. I salute your high council. I congratulate Minister of Family and Social Policy Fatma Hawkah for his zealous work and for his compromise personality compared to other ministers, but I must also point out that this bill that went down to the General Assembly through commissions includes shortcomings. The bill did not specifically include gender equality, human rights for women, equality for men and women. It is not possible to talk about civility, human rights, in a country without being able to achieve gender equality. Dear lawmakers, our esteemed congressman, Mr. Engin Ozkoc, spoke for twelve hours at the National Education Commission. I congratulate him once again from the bottom of my heart for his performance. Many other lawmakers also discussed the wrongs of the 4+4+4, which you tried to bring to the General Assembly by attending this meeting and passing through the Commission. Women's problems and education are a country's above-party, ideologies, or policy-based concepts. That's the Republican People's Party's view of these concepts, but unfortunately, that's not the AKP's view. As the People's Party of the Republic, we will continue to say wrongly, wrongly, and resist for better tomorrows. We're not going to go right by doing wrong, we're going to teach wrong the right way. Yeah, we'll talk for 24 hours and 48 hours if that's what it takes. Dear lawmakers, even though the same progress line has not been achieved in the period after the rapid reforms in the area of women's rights of our republic, we have enough signatures in international contracts on preventing women's violence, and we have legal regulations in our country's legislation. Violence against women is the most common violation of human rights, but it is the least punishable. Today's situation is exemplary and sad. When human rights, democracy, equality of women and men, human development, women in politics represent us, we take our place right around the corner between the countries of the world. But we're not content with the existing laws, but we're making new arrangements, just like in this bill. Then why the numbers, the violence, the murders that we can't turn to our advantage? What's wrong with us? The unregulated contracts and laws on paper do not provide the solution to this problem, and it turns out to be a social bleeding wound. The government's duty is to improve the laws and enforce the existing laws. In fact, the root of all problems is male-female discrimination. Women face certain social and cultural challenges rather than laws. The rate of women who can't explain their violence to anyone is 48.5%. She can't even describe the violence, she's ashamed, she's afraid. Dear lawmakers, this shame is the shame of the state, which has not digested democracy, failed to complete its sociocultural formation, has put physics ahead of its mental power, and has failed to ensure that half of this community is not exposed to rights, safety, or abuse. Our mothers with kiss feet. We call them women. We call them women. But domestic violence is scary. Women are the building blocks of society, we say women are essential. But in social areas, we are between women and no women. Political parties say they owe their success every chance they get to the party, the women's arms in the field, the women's selfless work, but when you look back, there are no women in the leadership and decision-making bodies. We only have one female minister on the Council of Ministers, and she doesn't have a woman's name. Its purpose is to prevent violence, to protect the woman, to protect the family. You can say, "What's the point?" But it's just to lock her up in family and social policies, to ignore problems other than family life. It only makes the woman in the family look legitimate, the problems in the family. The name of this bill proves that its primary priority is not to protect the woman, but to protect the family. The woman is called whatever you go through, but protect your family. So, the real solution to the problem in our country is to fight this mentality that even prevents us from using the woman's name and the word "woman" and the social mentality. Hence, valid steps must be taken to ensure that the woman's name exists in every field, rather than erase its existence. In this sense, I celebrate all women's March 8th World Laboring Women's Day, especially our devoted mothers, hoping to live in Turkey, where there is no discrimination, where there is equality of women in all areas.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0161par0483	Your Highness, thank you. Your Honor, I submit to your votes the motion of your friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 8: The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, We propose and recommend that the third joke of Article 8 of Article 8 of the Law on Protection of the Family and Avoiding Violence Against the Woman be changed in the following way, and that the fourth and fifth jokes be removed from the text, and that the joke numbers be addressed accordingly. In order to provide protective measures, violence is not sought for evidence or documents. The preventive measures are made without delay. This decision cannot be delayed in a way that could jeopardize the purpose of this Law. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat İlknur Denizli A. "Sibel Heart Sermin Fish" Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 8th amendment to the protection of the family and preventing violence against women. Article 3. We propose and propose that the joke be added immediately after the declaration of "description" and "documented" and "also" be changed to "six months" in its second joke. Ayşe Nedret Akova Hülya Trust Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Sakine Öz Aylin Nazlıaka Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu The number 181 bill is 8. In the 1st article of the article, the addition of the word "also" to be added after the declaration of a decree. To change the 2nd joke in the following way. ▪ A decision can be made for six months, tops, for the first time. The decision can be made indefinitely, however, when the danger of violence and violence is seen to continue. The measures made indefinitely can or can be removed at the request of the protected individual or ministry officials. In his third joke, the addition of the word "device" after the sentence was issued, We propose that the fourth joke be taken out. Ayla Akat Secret Sırık Sırrıyya Leader Sebahat Tuncel Ertugrul Kürkçı Hasip Kaplan Mr. Commission, do you agree with the final motion?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0162par0513	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0161par0514	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0163par0515	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0161par0516	Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0164par0517	Dear lawmakers, with this motion, we're increasing deterrent measures. I just want to say that when it comes to family protection, children come first, women, of course, their mother comes first, and one of the most important problems is custody and child abduction cases. This is the area where the most pressure is applied, the most violent. I've been through this for 20 years and I've finally written your book, Mother Scream, here. I've drawn attention to an international contract here, the HUGE Convention, now referred to as The Hague Convention, and we've accepted it. Moreover, we were facing a minister of the government in this case, and we voted together. It doesn't take much to go through this kind of pain. I'd like to point out that violence, violence, violence... what about the violence of the state? In Turkey, where political representation has hit the bottom, where there are 14 percent of women in the parliament, where there are over 500 per cent political prisoners, I want to ask you what will happen to the city's mayors who are living alone breaking down the doors of the state's homes, the terror of the task force, the violence of the snow masking officers, the violence of the government? Here's what I want to explain: there's a soul missing, there's something missing from it. What's missing is that the government's attitude that promotes violence is that it's untouched. Where the first violent person goes is the police, the police, the police. Starting with the measures here, shouldn't the international contract be applied according to Article 90 of the Constitution? Mr. Minister, the rights of the Children's Rights Convention is all a coup, not a coup. How is this Children's Rights Convention tolerated? How do you put your identity, your culture, your language, when you're attracted to children who want to live? Isn't that violence and violence? This Parliament must lift this violence and violence. Again, the reservations of the United Nations Convention on Civil Rights and Political Rights are violence. These contracts, this law, unfortunately, are not in the law. There's no protection on the kidnappers, no custody. The reason why you can't see each other is because as long as there's 15 days of detention, a month of punishment, six months of punishment, no one shows a child to anyone. There's no countermeasure. This is very important, and it is important, of course, to prevent this The Hague Convention. I'd like to read from here the March 8th message from Büşra Ersanlı, who is in prison for the political violence of the state. I'm meeting him in a type-L prison in Bakırköy. He says he's an academic. Because a professor teaches at a political academy, because he wrote a book for KADER, for his education, for his science, for his knowledge, and for his humanity, can violence be applied to women in a country beyond that? Look, Fatma Survivor was the deputy chairman of the group, and the previous term was in this House. What it says: for me, it's the common enthusiasm of women. March 8th is our opposition to the male dominant system, injustice, injustice, destruction, persecution, mute, free speech. Isn't that just the violence of the state against Sakinah, Hatice Vural, Lütfiye Gürbuz, Gift Presidents Aksoy and many other women who are on hunger strike on the 20th day, Selma River? The legislature of this House is still under arrest. Isn't Gulser Yıldırım a member of parliament, by the will of the nation? In the hunger strike, the prisoner, prisoner, prisoner of this House is a paralegal; the will of the nation is handcuffed. In the squares... there's a Kurdish proverb. I'll tell those who want a translation of it: the lion is a lion, or a man or a woman. That's where equality lies. Look at the squares, the women in the circle of poverty. Do you realize that the squares are colorful and rallying in a hundred and thirty places, Parliament? Look at the colors... members of the KESK are inside, being claimed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Here are the pictures, here's March 8th, here's the will, the resistance, here's the life. It's time for the right speech in the House. There's no such thing as missing women's rights, no protection of family, no protection of children. The rest is a story... let's think it over, guys.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0165par0525	Mr. Kaplan, thank you. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Kaplan and his friends, those who agree... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 8th amendment to the protection of the family and preventing violence against women. Article 3. We propose and propose that the joke be added immediately after the declaration of "description" and "documented" and "also" be changed to "six months" in its second joke. Ayşe Nedret Akova (Fishesir) and her friends Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0166par0532	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0165par0533	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0167par0534	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0165par0535	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0168par0536	Sakine Öz.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0165par0537	Mr. Oz, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0169par0539	Mr. President, I have been promised the protection of the family and the prevention of violence against the woman under Article 8 of the Law bill. I salute you all. (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Minister. Violence against women is one of Turkey's bleeding wounds, but the wound has been bleeding much more during the AKP period for about ten years. Not a day goes by that there's no news in the press that a woman has been murdered. See, the bill on preventing violence on women needs to be the answer to such distress, but it will not be possible if some changes are not made in the draft. As you all know, some of the women who have been murdered are in danger. They have applied to the state, saying, "My safety is at stake." Yet these women have not been protected, nor have they been able to prevent violence, even though they have entrusted their lives to the state. Some women may not even be able to apply for protection measures because they feel threatened, but they often know that their neighbors, their neighbors, their relatives, have experienced violence. For that, I find the precaution taken with the previous tip sheet very important. An arrangement in this direction will prevent dramatics, attacks, and deaths from being seen. Again, we were opposed to limiting the measures to six months in the Justice Commission, and we submitted a motion, but our motion was rejected. Now we've been informed that this has been raised to eight months, but we don't think that's enough. Dear lawmakers, what conscience is it that a person who is in constant danger of violence waits for a decision to be extended every six or eight months, living with this constant anxiety? What needs to be done here is to ensure that the measures are made indefinitely, if necessary. It is possible that this indefinitely made decision will be lifted later upon demand. But this was not done, at this point the demands of women's organisations were ignored. Again, there is a decision in the article that the judge can make without trial, without looking for evidence or documents, but the victim may be running for time to protect her life, so it is very important for our women to support our proposal to add to this joke immediately. The judge must make this decision immediately so that the victim woman can be protected immediately. I'm sure all the MPs here would appreciate that there's nothing more urgent than this person's life. I don't see any reason why the AKP insists on the name of the bill. The order has been raised from public opinion and has been rejected by the AKP, who has insisted that the name of the organisation be a bill on the protection of women and family members from violence. Thus, the bill was cut from the focus of women, and the focus of the bill was put on family. Are you against the family? Of course, we believe in the sanctity of the family. Of course, we all have families, but we ask power: Are you against violence to women who haven't formed a family yet? Why didn't you say yes to such a simple change that would make women feel safer if you were against it? What does it matter if a woman is married or single to protect herself from violence? Tomorrow you're going to ask for a birth certificate to help a woman who's been abused in front of your eyes? Mr. President, if there are no necessary regulations on this bill, the government is trying to give women a gift on March 8th. It's no different than giving us, women, a shiny piece of paper, a ribbon, but an empty gift package. Let's give women a real gift by making these changes. The measures involved in this bill are important, but more important than electronic handcuffs is to remove the handcuffs from their minds. The best protection for women would be to bring them into life instead of locking them in, to prepare for their economic independence, and to work side by side with men in every aspect of life. He wishes the 8th of March to come as soon as possible in such a Turkey, and I celebrate the Women's Day of all working women. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0170par0553	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Oz and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and recommend that the third joke of Article 8 of Article 8 of the Law on Protection of the Family and Avoiding Violence Against the Woman be changed in the following way, and that the fourth and fifth jokes be removed from the text, and that the joke numbers be addressed accordingly. In order to provide protective measures, violence is not sought for evidence or documents. The preventive measures are made without delay. This decision cannot be delayed in a way that could jeopardize the purpose of this Law. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0171par0561	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0170par0562	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0172par0563	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0173par0564	Motive.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0170par0565	Reason, please. In order to provide protective measures regarding the person exposed to violence or in danger of exposure, there must be no search for any evidence or evidence evidence evidence. The reverse practices have shown that although demand has been made for protective measures, for example, being asked to report from a health institution for the sake of making such decisions, for example, for the sake of violence, results in continued violence and cause greater victims. For this reason, a protective precautionary decision must be issued at once, whether the judge or the property is given by the chief or even the law, without the need for evidence research or documentation. In contrast, in order for a preventive precautionary decision to be made, there must be facts that the person is in danger of violence or practice. In the opposite direction, it can lead to abuse. In addition, preventive measures constitute significant restrictions on individual rights and freedoms. However, the need for preventive measures to be delivered based on facts should not produce a mathematical result in delaying this decision. Otherwise, despite the decision of protective or preventive measures, the purpose set by this Law would not have been fulfilled. It has also been considered that since the law has been set against measures, the decision of the protected person without a request can be taken as well as that it is not possible to determine the consent of the protected person in any situation. This amendment has been submitted in order to address the specified inconveniences. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 8th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 8th article has been accepted. There are two motions on Article 9 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in 181 rows where we're talking about the protection of the family and the prevention of violence against women. Article 3. We offer and propose the addition of the declaration of the joke to come after the statement. Ayşe Nedret Akova Hülya Trust Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Sakine Öz Aylin Nazlıaka Sena Kaleli Sedef Little Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu It's the 9th draft of the 181th row. Article 1 of the article. And 3. We propose that his jokes be removed from the text and added to the following jokes. The court may ask the judge, who has been given a decision to take measures against Article 9: to remove or change the decision of the measure within seven days of the declaration. In the event of objection, the statement of those who have been protected is first taken, and it is based on the verdict as long as it is proven otherwise and not shown in the verdict on grounds. (2) A person who has been given a decision to take a precaution can always demand that a decision be taken from a judge who has made a decision, a lack of decision, inadequacies, new or additional measures be taken. (3) The judge can remove or partially remove the request or receptor measures, or temporarily exempt a person from following some of them, or, based on the nature of the objection, he can rule out additional measures against the objector. (4) The implementation of the precaution will automatically end with the end of the period scheduled for the decision or the end of the six-month period. Ayla Akat Sırrıyya Leader Levent Tüzel Hasip Kaplan Golden Tan Erol Dora Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0174par0595	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0170par0596	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0175par0597	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0170par0598	Here you go, Mr. Ancestor.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0176par0599	Mr. President, I have been given the right to a motion on the amendment to Article 9 of the law. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, this is the picture that was revealed in this courtroom today: political power has foreseen some regulations for certain substances, has passed amendments on that issue, but other than that, no arrangement by opposition parties has been accepted to present here. So that means we have a phrase, it says. I admire me, I'm a sacrifice. That's the point. That's the point. I know best, I do the best.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0177par0601	I'm a victim, I'm a victim!
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0176par0602	Now, many of our fellow lawmakers have taken the stand and said: The approach to violence should be above politics. We use the concepts of above-parties, above-politicism. It occurred to me that Mr. Nicemaya was objecting to this. He thinks it's a matter to consider, not over parties, but over politics. Why is there so much resistance and insistence on unresolvedness if we can come together and create a partnership? Minister, you know as well as we do, and the honorable lawmakers of the political power who sit in this parliament and act so indifferently know that the massacre of women in Turkey is not a reality that we can turn our backs on today, it's clear. The only conclusion we can get from you is that the increase between 2002 and 2009 is 1,400 per cent a year. 66 women were massacred in 2002, and in 2009 the number increased to 953, with an increase of 1,400 per cent. Now, you have already stated from this bench that violence against women has become known in our time. Therefore, there is an increase in this number. Why? Even if it's a woman, it's our problem, even if it's a woman who's been murdered, which is true, we can't make violence against her visible, we can't make it known. In front of that, social values are a barrier. In this case, policies that lock her in the house are a barrier. We know that, but the only way to break it is to make regulations in the law at first, which is, by the way, not just by the law. We all know that the changes made here in 2005, 2006, the reflection of the changes in society didn't work out the way we wanted them to. When we say that the head of the family is no longer a man, it has not been rewarded within the family. Why? Because there is a traditional family model, and in order for this to change, it may be possible with a political power and the will of Parliament that is first aware of the process, which can implement the policies of equality. We need to make it visible, known. Why is he not a man? By training, using all kinds of material, we should be able to use all kinds of instruments as tools, but we are in a very remote policy. Now, we're going to pass this law tomorrow. It won't come out in peace. But how? None of the women here will say no to the release of this law because there is a greater improvement to the situation, but, frankly, our conscience is not at ease when we pass this law. Can we say that we are innocent in the face of the massacre of a woman who is not a member of the family tomorrow? Are we gonna be able to do this? No. This means that I knowingly accept this conclusion, knowingly, I condone the massacre of women. These have happened, they have been seen by society, and since we can't even stop them, some tools have been spread out using instruments, but now that we have a measure against it, we will say no on purpose when the bill comes to Parliament. That means we prefer to remain silent in the face of massacres. We're actually aware of the problem, we're aware of what social resources the problem is, we know the way to change it. It's going to be difficult, it's a fact because we're taking a step up to the status quo, it's going to be difficult. Of course, a lot of people are going to get up and say a lot of things, but we have to take the risk because there's a human life at stake because there's a life at stake. Our choice is to take sides in human life, in the right to live, no matter who. Otherwise, we would be no different from those who slaughtered her and then found the motive, who slaughtered her and deserved it. Today, we all know that the perpetrators of women's massacres are often seen as heroes by the community. We're just gonna give in to this? And we're just gonna accept that? No. We'd expect a little more sensitivity to the amendments here, but no motion has been accepted. We are also highlighting one thing in this proposal. We've been fighting this for years. In cases of violence against women, the woman's statement should be based on. This should also be at the stage of the investigation, at which the objection develops, and the object of the person who has been put against him has developed. The woman's statement must be based on her judgment. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0178par0609	Mr. Ancestor, thank you. Mr. Ancestor and his friends' motion to vote: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 181-line family we're talking about is the 9th amendment to protecting and preventing violence against women. Article 3. We provide and propose the addition of the declaration of the joke to come after the declaration of confession. Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0179par0616	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0178par0617	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0180par0618	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0181par0619	Mr. Danishoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0178par0620	Mr. Danishoglu, please come in.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0182par0622	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the protection of Family Number 181 and the prevention of Violence Against Women under Article 9 of the Law Bill. I salute you all, your high council. As known as March 8th, World Women's Day has become a symbol of the women's struggle for equality since 1857. Today, it is not only the struggle for equality, but it is a day when all discrimination against women is being lifted, women are involved in decision making mechanisms, and violence against women is being stopped. Of course, it is not a coincidence that the adoption of the Law Bill for Protection of the Family and Avoiding Violence Against Women was brought to this date in the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. However, it is no coincidence that this bill, despite its prevention of violence against the woman, has been announced under the name ▪ it is no coincidence that it is focused on the family. This is an extension of the political policy of the mindset that can't digest accepting a woman as an individual. Turkey must adhere to international contracts with which it is on the side. The removal of the Ministry of State, responsible for women and family, and the establishment of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, is an expression of going back on behalf of women's work. Turkey's international contracts and the acquisitor of the European Union Turkey make it obliged to end violence and discrimination against women and to follow policies that strengthen women-men's equality. The mechanism for equality of men and women has been weakened, not as individuals, but as an element of the family, as a result of the removal of a ministry under the name Women's State Department into the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Dear lawmakers, our country needs efforts to prevent violence against women, strengthen women's status, but we also know that legal regulations are not enough to reduce human rights violations against women. The important thing to address the difficulties in the application is that fighting violence against the woman is put on the main axis by the government as a state policy. The equality of women and men can be carried out through the sociocultural structure of society, prevention and protection mechanisms. Our children's social gender, the equality of men and women, the young meeting of the concepts of human rights, will help eliminate the dominant male understanding of the current social mentality in future generations. It is also important that this education is not limited to the framework of teachers' perception, but also to be carried out under international contracts that we are on the side of. According to a study published a day earlier, 80 percent of women argue that justice has not been done in the face of violence. That's 78.6% for married people, 85.8% for singles. 87.4% of women who claim to have experienced violence also find punishments inadequate. The establishment of justice can take place if the protection measures are put on solid ground. This requires that judges, prosecutors, law enforcement officers be subject to regular and frequent training. Dear lawmakers, it is our political and humanitarian duty to fight violence against the woman. In order for us to carry out this assignment properly, we must first remove the woman from the concept of the family and not be afraid to see her as an individual. To see the positive consequences of fighting violence against a woman, changing social mentality should be our primary goal. The concepts of social gender, human rights of women, and the concepts of equality of men and women are steps that we must take to educate our children in this way. We can't protect our women and children from violence unless we can internalize these concepts, solve the problems in practice. I thank you and salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0183par0633	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Dilek Akagün asked where he lived for a minute. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0184par0637	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, I just said that in my speech. In Article 4, we limit the authority of the judge. Likewise, in Article 8 of the 8th article, as a result of the hearing of the protected one, if the judge approves, we made a decision regarding the continuation of the measures without calling his admission statement, as you know, as a result of long discussions. The Istanbul Convention clearly states that the principle of non-responsibility should be adopted in such matters of violence. On the other hand, I told you about the Opuz decision, as well as all members of the Commission. So why is it left to the person who was protected, to the person who was given the protection order, to be re-supplyed? I mean, I'm really expressing my sorrows. In both cases, we agreed on a long discussion, and I expected you to take care of them. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0185par0640	Thank you. Here you are, please, short of your seat...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0186par0642	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, we have already submitted this motion because of the sensitivity said by Dilek Hanım. There will be confusion in my conduct, the chiefs and judges will throw the property at each other and the woman will be victimized here. We did so to protect her understanding. Ms. Ayla has just spoken in her speech, but we, in the Commission, the Commissioner, all of our MPs in the Commission, have received all the positive opinions of our witness, civil society, and all of our friends in opposition. So, what Dilek Haným here says is that we've already submitted this motion to correct the problem of implementation.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0185par0643	Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0187par0644	Minister, something similar has been done in Article 8 of the article. The 8th article, in a similar way, was removed in the 4th, 5th article, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0185par0645	There are two motions on Article 10 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're talking about the 181th row of the law on the protection of the family and preventing violence against the woman. Article 7. We offer and propose the addition of the declaration of the joke in a month's time after the declaration of the person or the person. Ayşe Nedret Akova Hülya Trust Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Sakine Öz Sena Kaleli Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second sentence of Article 10 of Article 10 of the Common Family Protection and Avoiding Violence Against Women, we propose and propose that the statement be added to the following places. Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat A. Sibel Gönul Mustafa Elitaş Sermin Balık Nurdan Şanlı Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0188par0663	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0185par0664	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0189par0665	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0190par0666	Motive...
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0185par0667	Reason, please. The social facility owned by public institutions and organisations has been granted this motion to ensure temporary housing in dorms and so forth. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're talking about the 181th row of the law on the protection of the family and preventing violence against the woman. Article 7. We offer and propose the addition of the declaration of the joke in a month's time after the declaration of the person or the person. Ayşe Nedret Akova (Fishesir) and her friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0191par0676	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0185par0677	Government?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0192par0678	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0185par0679	Ayþe Eser Danışoğlu, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0193par0680	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the protection of Family Number 181 and the prevention of Violence Against Women under the 10th Amendment of the Law bill. I salute your grand delegation again. We all know that the number of women who have experienced or continue to see violence from their wives in Turkey has reached very serious numbers. In particular, violence is much higher in divorced or widowed women. According to subcommittee reports set up by the Turkish Parliament's Human Rights Review Commission to study violence against women and family members, applications in 81 count for domestic violence totaled 80,398. According to a recent study by a national newspaper, 41.5 per cent of women face violence from their wives in Turkey. Women who are housewives are up to 71.4 percent. According to the World Economic Forum's 2011 report, Turkey could only be ranked 132 put between 135 countries on women's participation in economic life and the equality of opportunity. Given that violence against women is largely due to the economic and social imbalance between men and women, the ranking is not entirely inappropriate. The low share of women's employment in Turkey is mentioned from time to time in various reports by the European Union and United Nations officials on international platforms. How, then, will Turkey, which aim to become a full member of the European Union under these circumstances, reach the European Union's goal to raise its employment to 60 per cent? In 1990, women's employment participation was closer to this goal by 34 per cent, while we are currently unable to achieve 30 per cent. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, as I've just stated, the rate of violence in housewives is 71.4%. A woman's high education, employment and economic freedom will help her to become stronger as an individual and reduce the possibility of violence. Unfortunately, in our society, some women don't think of themselves as individuals. One of the outstanding evidence is that women who accept being beaten naturally by their spouses are at an enormous 20.3% high. Mr. President, there's one last thing I'd like to share with you. As you know, this bill we're discussing is based on the text that NGOs, women's organisations have been working on for a long time and agreed on. The already participant democracy means that NGOs directly participate in legislative activities. However, changes have been made in the Commission talks that will affect the essence of the law and have brought with it the rebellion of the Final Platform for Violence, which represents the 237 women's organisations. In this framework, I would like to briefly share with you the main objections of the Final Platform for Violence, so that NGOs who are working on the bill can announce their reservations. In their statement: "As the last platform of violence, we object to the fact that the name of the law as it is now being organized to protect the family, not women, but women who have suffered violence, and that the centers that will work on the principles of help and protection and protection can be maintained by the agency, the task force, and the demands of women's organisations; that there are no shelters and sexual violence crisis centers in the law; that women's organisations are not allowed to be involved in violence and murder cases. All women celebrate World Women's Day, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0194par0688	Thank you, Mr. Danishoglu. Mr. Danishoglu and his friends' motion to vote: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 10th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 11 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in 181 rows where we're talking about the protection of the family and the prevention of violence against women. Article 2 of the following article We offer and offer to add to the joke. Ayşe Nedret Akova Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Hülya Güven Aylin Nazlıaka Sakine Öz Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu In the units of law enforcement, there are bodies of protection units for women and children from violence and sufficient women are employed in these units to carry out the services specified by the law. Does the Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0195par0702	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0194par0703	Government?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0196par0704	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0194par0705	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0197par0706	"Glory to the Heart..."
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0194par0707	Your Highness, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0198par0709	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the protection of Family Number 181 and the prevention of Violence Against Women Article 11 of the Law bill. I salute the grand jury. Segregation for a woman shows itself in different dimensions at every stage of life. This process, starting from the day the girls were born, goes on for the rest of her life. In our patriarchal family and community-generated country, the education of girls is second-guessed by both this thinking and economic difficulties. Our daughters can be forced to marry older men than they are when they're teenagers. They do not receive as much love and attention as their brothers do, but they are under pressure, violence, even abuse from family members. This discrimination that began the day he was born lasts all their lives. The woman, who has already not been able to benefit from her educational opportunities equally from men, is also subjected to discrimination, harassment, and violence at work. The woman accepts and is forced to accept the roles that she plays in both politics and in the family and in the community. It is difficult for a woman who has been exposed to so much discrimination in her entire life to succeed in working life, to have a say in management and decision making, to be happy in family life. In our country, women are still left out of their right to education, being subjected to oppression, harassment, violence, ritual, and murder under the name of honor. Today, if there is such a thing as a women's shelter in the age of science and technology, if it's not enough for women in shelters who experience violence, violence against women, stopping murders, trying so hard to increase women's position in education, it shows how far behind we are in the name of humanity, democracy, development. On the other hand, the woman is considered second class next to the man, and even by women, this is widely regarded as natural order, religion, tradition. One of the most important reasons why we can't achieve the goals we want in women's rights is that women are not aware of their own power, their rights, because they're deprived of the education to think about it, to think about it, to resist it, to be imprisoned within the family, within the four walls. Dear lawmakers, our family is our holy, our priority, our family, our home, our cubs, above all else. When it comes to family, the water stops flowing. We're selfless, we're selfless, but it's not a healthy approach to put all the responsibility of the family on women's shoulders, as it has been done over the years, as it has been done with this bill. Children raised in this family don't grow up healthy. Dear lawmakers, women need to recognize the fact that, yes, our family will not see a peaceful and peaceful environment unless our first priority is women, mothers, daughters, and men share a life based on the principle of equality and freedom, as long as they do not take their rightful place in this society. Therefore, we, women, will stand together against the exploitation of our labor, the disregard of women's rights, the violence of women, the imprisonment of women within four walls, our political opinion, our profession, our education. We will continue to struggle with the mentality of how many children she will bear and only the protection of the family. Dear lawmakers, March 8th is just a symbol of the meaning and value of our rights. I think of our shortcomings in this area as a way to think, to talk, to create awareness, to think about many reforms that we need to implement. Hopefully, in 2012, we can make the best use of this opportunity together. I give you all my love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-07sit02spe0199par0718	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Your Honor. Congressmans, I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Yüceer and his friends: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article is accepted. Since we have reached the end of our working period, it is 13 p.m. on Thursday (March 8th 2012) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
