tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 23rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes, and the government can answer those questions. The government's response time is 20 minutes. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Mr. Lütfu Turkkan who asked for a statement about the removal of live TV broadcasts from the Parliament at TRT 3 (TRT) after 1900 p.m. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath outside the agenda regarding the cutting of parliamentary television broadcasts. I salute your high council. The ruling party narrows down the hours when the TRT 3 (TRT) broadcasts the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which coincides with the times when Parliament TV is not on the air. In this way, the government considers the wrongs and flaws in the law to rise in the middle of the night without public knowledge and to lower the voice of the opposition. Although we have expressed this topic over and over again, our warnings have been ignored, our people have been deprived of watching Parliamentary television broadcasts. The laws are discussed in vital matters, but you interrupt these publications, preventing the public from receiving that right from the network, which is the easiest communication for the public. Mr. President, I find it hard to understand, and I can't help but think that by hiding from citizens the work of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which was at the end of the public trend polls, are we the ones who are making Turkey's Grand National Assembly head of untrusted institutions? Because of the biased news, citizens have misinformation about what's going on in parliament. In the General Assembly of the General Assembly, where crucial law talks on vital issues have been held, an image is being created that has been cut out earlier in the session of parliamentary television broadcasts and its perception that there are hidden jobs behind the scenes from citizens is spreading, which is disturbing to us. Now I'd like to ask: Why and why do we interrupt the Turkish Grand National Assembly broadcasts at certain hours in the evening? What's the point? What does it matter if a lot of our sensitive people in the country, my elected, my representative, are doing in Congress, and he knows that the broadcast is being shut down? I might add that it is possible to serve classified information to certain media groups and read from the corners of certain journalists the next day, but what is the significance and the importance of concealing key law talks from citizens in our country? Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as I see and understand, the dishonoration of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, are the practices of this government that gives the deputy distrust. Unintended images can also be seen in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. The government has no reason to use its numerical majority in every field, as it does in these cases. In these talks, you seek every means to prevent citizens from seeing the struggle of opposition in the most crucial laws, the right arguments it has given for the country. Why are you doing this? You're trying to cut into the disputes during the television broadcast and pass on the images that have caused misunderstandings to the citizens, just as you did in the talks of the Metropolitan Law. We, the National Movement Party Group, believe that every meeting held at the Turkish Grand National Assembly will reach the nation. We don't fight unfairly. Our fight is about the national interests of our country. The laws you are hiding from this nation are to do with the law what PKK cannot do with weapons. We object, we fight, we rebel. However, if there is, we're willing to pay a bill as it was in the past. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let our citizens come and watch what his deputy is doing at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, rather than some unnecessary series that are trying to adopt our foreign, nationally corrupt family lives to our citizens; let him watch himself, his country, and his future. Let him learn the truth, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Mustafa Ozturk, an MP who wants to speak on behalf of World Quality Day. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0004par0027	Mr. President, I have made a promise today for World Quality Day. The growing population in the world has developed and developed a sense of quality in products and services in a competitive environment that has risen in parallel with technological developments. The changing expectations and needs, the increasing level of prosperity, have triggered constant improvements in this regard. In fact, the basic philosophy of quality, to me, is that the right-set needs are met at the right time, so it's not about production, it's about returning to the economy of production for the need. And that means preventing waste in the world, right, and as soon as possible, at minimum cost, giving the best to humanity. And that's when I want to talk to you today about human quality as well as the quality of products and services, in accordance with the philosophy of the state. Yes, every human system in the world is a man who manages all technical and administrative systems. There's no need to discuss the importance of human quality for the world today. We're all investigating the bankruptcy of materialistic philosophy that perceives man as merely a means of production and consumption. Can we talk about human quality today, if people are still starving, starving, despite all the opportunities and improvements in the world? Even very recently, if people are excluded from their color or race, how can we express it? If today, countries are being exploited in front of the world, their resources are being used by someone against their will, so to speak, if they're being smoked, how can we express it other than human inferiority? Again, if there is freedom of faith, freedom of thought, obstacles to life, and a double standard, how can we explain it? How can we explain the wretched, let alone the quality, the lack of humanity, the destruction of human peace, the recklessness of violence and terror that led to the destruction of mankind directly? If he recently had two world wars, survived the cold war, but still local or regional wars, massacres, what else can we interpret this other than man's monstrousness and lack of quality? This year, for example, 2012 is the 100th year of the Balkan wars. In the Balkans, millions of soybeans and brothers have been pressured and forced into forced migration. Again, hundreds of thousands of people were slaughtered by gangs and governments during this period. A civilization has been destroyed in the Balkans. I strongly condemn those who did this. I'm talking about human quality to make sure there's no more suffering like this. The quality of a man is a good morality. A man of good morals is a man of beauty, a man of thought, a man of truth, a man who earns hearts. When Moses, the Grand Creator, commanded Pharaoh to speak softly to him when he commanded him to preach. A man of quality respects the lives, property, home, freedom, honor, and honor of men, which are forbidden in our religion. The greatest representative of good morality, and his example, Muhammad, has done well: the Muslim is the one who has not been harmed by the language and hand of other Muslims and people.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0005par0034	I'll applaud that.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0004par0035	A good man is fair, respectful, tolerant of the rights of others, peaceful, opposed to exploitation, favours sharing and cooperation, and does not cheat in scales and commerce. A good man is humble, before he dies, acting on the principle of death, avoiding ego satisfaction, freeing himself from feelings like ambition, hatred, hatred, and filling his heart with everlasting love. He lives not for himself, but for others. Quality people are equipped with knowledge, self-respect, real use of knowledge, so he thinks well. It is he who believes in men, and loves them without distinction. Great thinker, don't break anyone's heart, even if the heart is a heretic. To break a heart is to hurt God. He says. In short, love the Creator for the Creator. He says so, and so do we. Quality people blow the winds of good in society, they're respectable, they're pious, they're honorable people, so we've always been happy with the existence of those people. A beautiful and meaningful statement: ▪ Love a friend, and friendship knows a friend if he does not know one. Love beauty, if she doesn't know beauty, she knows beauty. Do good for good. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Don't take advantage, do good, for if people don't know, they'll know. That's why education is important, and we care about education. I salute all of you, the quality of a man says it's only in education.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0006par0040	Mr. Ozturk, thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Mr. Orhan Çakt MP, who asked for a statement about the problems of the police department. Here you go, Mr. Straight.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0007par0045	Mr. President, I have received a promise off the agenda regarding the problems of the law enforcement agency. On this occasion, I salute you all. Before I begin my words, dear lawmakers, I offer my condolences to the families of 17 of our soldiers who have been martyred in Siirt, and I would like to express this occasion as one of the most commonly used sentences in the High Assembly has been their wish for mercy and patience. I hope this will be the last wish, and the High Assembly will end this country's terror problem as soon as possible, and we will stop asking for mercy from this stand. Yes, my dear friends, the police force has 253,000 employees and one of Turkey's largest agencies. This agency has as much problems as its own size. You know, in Turkish, they have a touch, hear a thousand ahs! Let me simply tell you that all of these people, while we're home on holiday with our children in our homes, sleeping in our beds at night, they're all on duty, but they don't charge any additional fees for these extra missions. Again, my dear friends, the police, as well as our country's position -- you know -- are also fighting terrorism, but as they receive special service compensation, the police in Europe are taken into account. I'd like to ask you from here: What police in Europe go up to the mountain for thirty days and wait for their country in the field, in the snow, in the winter, in the apocalypse? I hope you'll fix the glitch in this matter. Again, my dear friends, being a martyr is a matter of honor in our country, in our religion, but the martyrs of both the police and the soldiers, unfortunately, in this country, are being paid below the poverty line. If you're worried that your wife will starve when you're a martyr, I'll leave it to your conscience to do what you're going to do. Again, my dear friends, let's say you do a very successful job as a police force, you take down a gang or stop a serious smuggling operation, the government will give you a reward. Who's the government giving the prize to, guys? He gives it to the person sitting at the table, not the one waiting in front of the bullet. You'll put the police in front of the bullet, but you'll share the reward with the chiefs of police, the chiefs of police. Yes, my dear friends, the problems of the police, the police department are not a problem that can be described here by a few minutes or so. Recently, the police wanted to form a union. You know what? Unfortunately, the Chief Constable didn't get his petitions. The only sentence to be said here is who you're going to complain to. The chief of police has committed a constitutional offense by refusing to file a petition for justice in the country. We are in favor of the establishment of the police union regardless of its political opinion, regardless of its stance. We'll try to support them in that sense. My dear friends, you may recall the question of why a member of the Republican People's Party, who is constantly sprayed with pepper spray in the square, is interested in the police's problem. I'd like to summarize this point with a few lines of our great bard: If half of our hearts are here, half of them are in China, But not the ones that flow toward the Yellow Nehr. He is among those who are oppressed in Tiananmen Field. We, the Republican People's Party, will continue to stand by all who are oppressed, whether they vote for us or not. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0008par0059	Thank you, Mr. Straight. Now, I'm going to promise one minute to our 10 friends who have entered the system. In first place, Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0009par0064	Mr. President, thank you. The demand of the new Burdur court in Burdur, the land of lakes, roses, and hearts is constantly expressed by our citizens. Current structure does not answer the need. Despite its location, location, land allocations, the funds have been split and no tenders have been made for the new location. I would like to address the Minister of Justice and government officials here: When will you set aside the funds for the new Burdur courthouse and proceed to the tender? I expect the government to answer my question as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0010par0067	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0011par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. Another late-night operation in parliament has been played on Şişli and Yenimahalle municipalities. When the AKP could not obtain the municipalities by voting, it began to perform such operations. He couldn't even apply the referendum from the most fundamental stones of democracy. He's going to get a public slap around here, just like everywhere else. The same M.N.A.P. had applied the same methods, never succeeded in any area. IN ANAP, the AKP, which implements all the methods of ANAP, will not succeed here, and we will see that in the first local election. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0012par0073	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0013par0076	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers lifted the death penalty of the United Kingdom again 14 years ago in November and saved the British nation from this disgrace. Turkey approved the European Convention on Human Rights (U.S.)'s 6th supplemental protocol, which envisioned the removal of the death penalty during peacetime, and the 13th supplemental protocol, which envisioned the removal in 2003 during the time of war and war, in 2006. Sadly, today we are dealing with a Prime Minister who intends to rescind the death penalty by rejecting his own word and signature. Erdogan, at the Bali Democracy Forum, we need to ▪check ourselves. We need to put ourselves back on the scales of justice. We need to put him down so that this peace of humanity can find peace. Yes, and I agree that the Prime Minister should make himself available, make a good deposit on the scales of justice, and salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0012par0078	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0014par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. In the morning, I attended a broadly attended meeting in Yeniçaka district of Bolu. Our tradesman there, unfortunately, was traumatized by the Department of Transport about two months ago by the Cantar. Because of Kantar, every vehicle passing by is stopped and each vehicle has a separate application. In fact, 15 times a day, some tools in Yeniça are introduced into the cantar. Now our tradesman in Gerede, in Yeniçah, is also being harmed, and people in Yeniça are also being harmed. Also, the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Transport had promised Yeniça his people that we would activate 400 cantars at the same time across Turkey, so no one would be a victim. However, Mr. Undersecretary didn't keep that promise. I'd like to ask you from here if Mr. Undersecretary's word will or won't Mr. Secretary? I'd like to know the answer to that question through you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0015par0085	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0016par0088	Mr. President, the AKP, who has been sitting at the negotiating table on the road to counterterrorism for years, has encouraged the terrorist organization with its actions and rhetoric and its latest Metropolitan Law, and has put on a new play in the eyes of the nation. This game is a game of the death penalty lifted by the 2002 vote and the use of the execution to reduce the reaction in the eyes of the citizens and to free the shame of the people who kidnapped terrorist criminals from death rows in 2003. Despite all objections from the National Movement Party, the AKP dismissed the death penalty, confirming the rights of the National Movement Party years later and confessing that it had made a mistake, retelling the execution. However, the AKP is not sincere, it has been re-absorbed. If he is sincere about this, the National Movement Party has maintained its political position years ago and is addressing the AKP Group: If you are sincere, we will stand behind him as the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0015par0090	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0017par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. Our police department and police have a lot of problems. With the rights and seizures at the very beginning of these, I wish to inform you that these rights, seizures, and all your troubles should be arranged and taken care of immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0018par0096	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0019par0099	Thank you. The Esendere Border Gate was returned to 8 million VATs from an imaginary 200 million lira export. This place, this Esendere Border Gate, has now returned to its inn, even though it is within the knowledge of the Minister. This 2012 date -- as a result of this investigation in Investigation Report 106-2 -- has been determined by this investigation -- has not been approved by the Secretary General, as well as by the Chief of Staff, as well as by investigators in the General Directorate of Customs and the Chief of Staff, who have been in charge of misusing the duties of bureaucrats. Why is Mr. Secretary guarding these, and at the same time, has there been a change of personnel in this gate of Customs, which is the inn, and has there been an investigation into these personnel?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0020par0103	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0021par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. The Kandira State Hospital is a hospital capable of 80 beds. For one-and-a-half years, the internal doctor has not been here, nor has he been appointed, he has been sent to Kandira, to do a temporary clinic every Wednesday from Hosheli, Izmit State Hospital, or any other hospital. I'd like to announce to the Ministry authorities that an internal expert should be employed permanently in Kandira, where there are about 80-100,000 people in the summer population. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0022par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. I also take advantage of the presence of Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay, saying that since an attacker and our ministers fired very close to the door during the last Council of Ministers, I want to make sure that they all get well first. However, the attacker, with similar prior criminal record, has been completed, transferred, and released for trial without arrest. However, students who had never had a criminal record before and who wanted to study without money have been detained for 11 months -- necessary -- for suspicion of evidence being blacked out and running away. What kind of intel is there on this attacker, but their conscience is at stake that this person, who was previously a criminal, would not harm anyone, condemn the evidence, or run away? I'm interested in the Minister's personal opinion on this matter, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0023par0115	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0024par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. Recently, the government is bringing defences in the main language, talking about educational openings in the native language, discussing issues such as opening a local language institute. With the Metropolitan Law, it is clear what it means to be done with fortified municipalities. These are the details of a big project. Turkey's national and unitary state faces a new threat. The people of the government are separatist, separatist and aberrant, based on ethnicity, religion, the region. Once again, I urge the government to abandon ethnicity, sectarian, segregative policies based on the region. We invite the government to try not to reconcile social groups, but to bring them closer, not to collide, but to reconcile. O Government, you must take all society and all its differences in completeness as an acquish. You must embrace the nation completely without ethnic, sectarian, regional or gender discrimination. It is wrong to think of Alevi without Sunni, without the east, without the west, without the women, without the men, without the nationality, without the spirituality or without the Kurds. You don't bless the differences, you don't count them, you don't count them.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0023par0120	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. My dear friends, we apologize to the other friends who have entered the system, 10 have been completed, so I'm sorry. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it:
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0025par0123	Isn't the Minister going to answer for a minute, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0023par0124	It doesn't exist, you know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0025par0126	Our hearts are in our throats. They've already released him, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0023par0127	When the time comes, we'll ask a government member. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0025par0129	Sir, I'm really curious.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0023par0130	Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the world, sports have become a huge industry with a large number of species and its financial power. For this reason, governments go to special arrangements for sports. Since sports are involved, one of the most important elements is athletes. Athletes have an impact on the announcement or widespread knowledge of many sports branches. The jockeys are also considered in many countries around the world. The horse races, one of the world's oldest and most common sports, are considered to be the first in the former Turkish states, and the first horse races in our country are known to have been held after Ottoman Padishah Bey's purchase of Bursa. Later, 17. Horse racing has been held in Edirne and in the Yildiz Mansion garden in Istanbul in the century. 19. In the century, there were horse races in Makriköy (now Bırırköy) in Veli Efendi's territory (now Veli Bey's Hippodrome) and in the Paperhouse. The first regular races in the Republic period were held in 1924. Today's most famous race, the Veterans Run, was launched in 1927. In addition to racing in cities such as Istanbul, Ankara, İzmir, Adana, Bursa and Şanlıurfa today, the Presidential, Prime Ministership and Turkey's Grand National Assembly Cup is held. The Veteran Run has been held since 1927, and has been the longest sport in our country for a continuous period of time. The problems of jockeys, athletes of such an important sport, have also reached the level to address. In our country, jockeys are not considered athletes because they are considered part of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. In other words, he is unable to benefit from the benefits of athletes. Although athletes in other branches can delay military service until they are 38 years old, jockeys are serving at the age of 20. During military service, weight - gaining jockeys are unable to perform post-military sports. Although the taxes they pay from their earnings are more than other athletes, their failure to benefit from the same rights raises major problems. The situation in our country of jockeys will be clearer, given that a jockey can get the best athlete award in England. In case they fall off the horse during the race, the jockeys who have to spend the rest of their lives paralyzed or platinum all over their bodies have a special significance in this sense. However, the collection of around 270 million liras into the Ministry has sparked great controversy among the jockeys. Although new regulations have been claimed to be fixed in the conditions of the jockeys, it is an unfair practice not to include the jockeys who had recently had an accident. In this regard, the Constitution of the 98th Amendment is to investigate the problems of jockeys in our country who are not considered athletes and who are trying to deal with many different kinds of problems and what needs to be done to resolve them. And TBMM Internality 104 and 105. We respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research. [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 5) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Adana]] 8) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Tekirdağ]] 10) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Antalya]] 12) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[Erzincan]] [[Mughle]] [[Antalya]] [[Mughle]] 18) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The government has made significant changes in the ministry's organizational structures, using the authority to remove the KHK from the TBMM. KHK No. 659 has been wronged by Accounting and National Real Estate Controllers. Tax controllers working under the same legislation and the same status, under the Ministry of Finance, who have the same powers as Accounting and National Real Estate Controllers, are entitled to 3600 additional indicators of duty and office compensation. Accounting and National Real Estate Controls are not entitled to that. While the status of 4,000 people has been raised, it has not been granted to accounting and national property inspectors, only 400 people. In addition, Accounting and National Estate Controllers have been combined with officers they've investigated and investigated, and have been appointed Bookkeeping Experts, under the orders of the superiors they've audited and filed reports against them. The rights of accounting and national property inspectors are also frozen. Accounting and National Real Estate Controllers, law, political, business, economics and equal, graduated from four-year-old education schools, receiving higher scores from the KPSS-A exams and taking the National Realty and Tax Investigator's assistant examinations from the Ministry of Finance. At the end of heavy training and three years of co-operation, a gap was created between Accounting and National Property Controllers who passed their mandatory competency exams and the Tax Controllers at the same status of the Finance Ministry. It was merged under the title of Tax Inspector No. 646 in the Ministry of Finance to unite the multilateral tax audit under one roof, under the title of Accounting Investigators, IRS controllers and Tax Controllers. Accounting controllers who inspected, investigate, investigate, and assess public damage and inspect public property were combined under the title of Finance Expert, along with National Real Estate Controllers who were not trained in this matter. Accounting and National Real Estate Controllers, who served in the country as an employee of the Ministry of Finance, and who did almost the same work in the country, were also merged under the title of Accounting and National Realty Controllers, under the discretion of the administration, who had substrate status and overseeed their transactions, and were co-ordinated with Accounting and National Realty Experts. The Accounting and National Real Estate Controllers and Accounting and National Estate Controllers, brought up by the Finance Ministry as supervisors, will serve under those they've already overseeed and investigated before, and who have been combined with experts with different reflex and mission-wise experts whose agreement and work are incompatible. The Ministry of Finance has created this injustice, when almost all ministries have changed the laws of the organization, while no ministry has been implemented, such as combining supervisors and experts. Our Constitution is 98, with the aim of identifying, uncovering, and resolving the problems of accounting and national property inspectors. Article 104 of our content. And 105. By establishing a Research Commission according to the requirements of the matter, we respectfully submit the investigation of the matter in all its dimensions. [[40s.]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 3) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 4) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Adana]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 9) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Erzincan]] [[Mughle]] 12) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] 19) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the revelation of the events of the December 19th Prison Operations, we propose and demand that Parliamentary Investigation be opened under Articles 104th, 105th Amendments of the Constitution, in order to determine and bring to justice the perpetrators who planned the operation, ordered the operation, and who were in charge of the operation, and to be brought to justice for 11 years, in order that justice be served. On October 20, 2000, 816 prisoners in Turkey's various prisons launched a death fast demanding that F-type prisons not be opened, the Anti-Terror Law and the removal of the Triple Protocol. The action, which soon spread to all prisons, found a huge echo in the public. A series of talks between the activists and the government began. But these talks were cut off shortly after December 19th. On December 19, 2000, a simultaneous operation was carried out in 20 prisons. During the period, Justice Minister Hikmet Sami Türk explained the purpose of the operation on screens as "Finishing hunger strikes and saving people on a death fast," and said they called the operation 'Back to Life'. 30 prisoners and two soldiers were killed in an operation to prevent death fasts. 237 prisoners and prisoners, 6 soldiers were taken to hospital injured, about 1,200 prisoners and prisoners were transferred to other prisons. The number of prisoners on pre-op death fasts increased to 357 after the operation at 259. State officials and the Minister of Justice at the time claimed that the law enforcement forces had been fired on, holding activists responsible for what happened. However, according to forensic experts, there was no armed resistance, no fire from the wards, and no weapons were found in the coal wards. The gas bomb was used on the lethal dose during the intervention. Women in the C-1 ward in Bayrampaşa Closed Prison were determined to have died in the fire of tear gas and nerve bombs used by security guards. The coroner's report stressed that the women who were burned to death were found with flammable leftovers in their clothing and skin. According to the report, five of the six female prisoners burned to death and one died from gas poisoning in the C-1 ward where 12 people lost their lives. The report stressed that 20 grams of the active material used in the operation killed people in 38 minutes, saying " 35 grams of bomb material was found in the C-1 ward." Forty-five unexploded bombs were found next to dozens of gas bombs that exploded in the same ward. The allegations that the prisoners killed each other with a gun were refuted by the coroner's report that the prisoners died after a long-distance shooting, and the report also revealed some discrepancies in the police report. On December 19th, we faced a state terror that tested all inhumane roads under the guise of a return to life operation, destroying the dignity of humanity and ruining hundreds of lives. On that day, the true face of this event, written as a black mark on the history of this country, has yet to be revealed and justice has yet to be done. Ten cases after the intervention have been dropped one by one. Two of the cases have turned against the prisoners, four have become time-consuming. Today only Bayrampaşa and the seven-year 'Umraniye' cases continue. In these cases, the only people who have already been discharged have been accused, and no officer has been brought before the judge. A soldier who lost his life in the shootout was cited as responsible for what happened in Bayrampaşa. In the Umraniye case, only 94 of the 267 defendants were able to testify in seven years. It is possible that Turkey can really democratize and get rid of all the dirt that's gotten into the state, only to face the facts of its past. However, cases involving operations carried out on December 19th have been suspended for 11 years and the perpetrators are tried to be exonerated. Ali Suat Ertosun, an architect of F-type prisons, was awarded the State Superior Service Medal by the AKP government in 2004 by State Minister Cemil Cicek during the operation. The government and the judiciary, tasked with uncovering the facts, hand in hand with those who will bring justice, reward and protect the perpetrators. In light of these statements, a great task falls to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to uncover the full reality of what happened before and after the December 19th operations. Congressmans, you have been briefed on parliamentary research motions. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal for the 19th Amendment. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Tuesday 13,11,2012 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. At 02,10,2012, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was recommended by Artvin MP Uğur Bayraktutan and 58 MPs to be read to the Turkish Parliament in the same date of the Assembly Research Front (527 rows), which aims to investigate allegations that many institutions and institutions in Ardanuç district of Artvin have been closed and the district has been reduced. In favour of the proposal, Mr. Ugur Bayraktutan, Artvin MP. Mr. Flagtutan, please.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0026par0278	Mr. President, we've submitted a parliamentary inquiry motion, which we've submitted to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is supported by 58 MPs, concerning the problems of our Ardanuk district of Artvin, about the closures of many institutions in Ardanuç district, and our concerns about the economic potential of Ardanuk district has gone back. 58 of my fellow lawmakers signed this motion with me, and I thank them, first of all, at the beginning of my speech. My dear friends, our Ardanuç district is 40km away from Artvin, where the population of the district is 6,500, the population of the village is 5,500; in the summer we have a cute town where our population is up to 20,000, which is over 20,000. Over 80,000 Ardanuchs live all over Turkey, my dear friends. Our Ardanuk district has suffered a tremendous decline in political power during the past decade in particular, and all public institutions and institutions within the Ardanuch have been shut down, and they are experiencing a very serious economic depression. Now I'd like to share some of the main points of this with the Turkish Grand National Assembly and Turkey. My dear friends, Ardanuch is not on the main artery, which means our Ardanuk district is still in the area. We have a river that connects Ardahan to Ardanuch, and turns into a snake story, my dear friends. The construction of this road began in 1993, so about 20 years ago, a 62km road was built, and the 31km part of it lies within Artvin's borders, and the other 31km are within Ardahan's borders. My dear friends, in this day and age, people are going to Mars, and they are going to the moon, and we have not been able to make the 62km river road that connects Ardahan to Ardanuch. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, look, I'll tell you something about this: our 23rd term MP, Mr. Artvin MP Metin Arifakaoğlu, is making a motion to ask the Minister of Transport about this path. He says: "When will you complete this path? " The date of the minister's question motion is 5/10/2007. On 5/10/2007, Mr. Metin Arifağaoğlu asks Bülkaoğlu Bülkl Yıldırım (I share with you) the response given by Bülli Yıldırım, Minister of Transport, with its routes -- these are its details. Finally, he says: "There are problems in the publicisation of this road, in general, in the area of the forest, in private property, but right now we are dealing with details of the issues related to publicisation. By the end of 2009, we won't have a problem with this route, we'll open this road. When does he say that? That's exactly what the Minister of Transport said on November 27, 2007, in a speech he made in parliament. My dear friends, the Ardanuchites are waiting, hoping for this conversation, hoping that the road will be opened in 2009. Time goes by, and when it doesn't open, the same MP asks the Minister a written question again on 27/10/2009, saying: "Mr. Minister, you said you would open this road in 2009, you didn't open the road. Why didn't you open the Ardanuk-Ardahan creek? The same Minister answers in 2010, which he signed this time in writing: ▪ My dear friends say the Artvin segregation, which is 31km long, is intended to be completed in 2010, at the level of sathi coating 19km of the road to Ardanuç 12. Look, he said it would open in 2009 a year ago, and now he says it will open in 2010, Mr. Secretary in 2009. Now, time passes, and I become a congressman, and I see that when I go to Ardanuç, they ask, "When will this creek be opened?" I'm asking the Minister a question this time. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] I said Mr. Minister, I'm asking a written question. On the written question I'm asking, Mr. Secretary, I'm reading the end of it, my dear friends, and it's planned to be completed in 2014, in line with the project of the Ardanuk-Salon Road. Now, all Ardanuchians listen to me, all Artvinians listen to me. We ask the minister three separate questions. When will this road be opened? In 2009. Or a year later, we ask: 2010. Time passes, we ask: 2014. Now, what do they call that in law, my dear friends, what do they call it in law? Isn't that lying? I'm asking you if it isn't! Mr. Secretary will come and say that what I said was wrong, and I will apologize to the Minister in front of this Grand Assembly. My dear friends, this river path turning into a snake story is the vital source of Ardanuk. Please, I must ask your government to open the Ardanuk-Ardahan creek immediately, because it is necessary to open this road to prevent the ongoing migration in Ardanuch, which is urgent, which is vital to the county. My dear friends, we didn't pave the way to Ardanuk-Ardahan, but we did other things. Today, in the Plan Budget Commission, Mr. Justice Minister announced that he is building palaces of justice in Turkey. In many places, more than 150 places, he crowned Turkey with palaces of justice. In 2012, we closed the courthouse in Ardanuk, my dear friends. In Ardanuç, our people, our Ardanuch people, go to the town centre of Artvin, which is the nearest town centre to get a criminal record, and get a criminal record 42km away from it, where the republic's prosecutor's office, the civil law, the original law, follows his work in criminal courts. What are we going to tell these people? The furthest village of Ardanuç is 40 to 45 kilometers, 40 kilometers from Ardanuch-Artvin; it will go from 85 kilometers, it will be sued, it will be explored; it is not possible to accept it. Unfortunately, all the applications we've made on this subject have been inconclusive. From this angle, I strongly condemn the closure of the Ardanuch Courthouse. I ask the government to return from this error immediately, my dear friends. If you close the office in a country that can handle judicial issues, in the county -- I'm calling from here -- close the Ardanuç subsidiary, my dear friends, if that's the case. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There's more to it than that. Look, there's a state hospital in Ardanuch. We have a state hospital that was built in 1994, founded by the Prime Minister in 2005; it's called State Hospital. I'm afraid there are no attendings at the 50-bed state hospital. He had an O.R., all kinds of agencies, all the technical equipment sent to other counties over the course of time, my dear friends. Ardanuk is a district without a hospital in Artvin. Now, I ask you, from here to all Turkey, why are we punishing Ardanuch, my dear friends? What's wrong with Ardanuch? Isn't it my right as a congressman to ask that, dear friends? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Again, in Ardanuch, wild forest areas are being made, and the yearly forest area of 15,000, 20,000 cubic metres, unfortunately, is up to 60,000 cubic metres today, up to 70,000 cubic metres. We're dealing with a very bad painting. Again, my dear friends, since I'm a lawyer, we have a very deep wound in the cadastro studies. The cadastro studies have been sketchy, the claims of property have been left aside, the plans for air photography and amenagement have been put forward, and in Ardanuch, the places left by people's grandfathers and fathers, unfortunately, have been condemned to the forest. The crossover was also tried to be erased. Other than that, schools are in dire condition. Rivers Middle School closed in 2010, Ardanuç Middle School in 2006, Aydın Village Middle School in 2010. In all the districts of Artvin, the level-determination exams have been conducted at the district centers where they are located, but the children of Ardanuç are going to Artvin County, my dear friends, to the level-determination exams of our children. Again, there are Anadolu upper secondary schools in all the districts of Artvin, Anadolu teachers' upper secondary schools, but unfortunately there are no Anatolian upper secondary schools in the district of Ardanuç, and there are no Anadolu teachers' upper secondary schools. Although livestock is the most important source of income for Ardanuch, animalism has been regressed because of one of the common problems in our country. My dear friends, from the day you were government, you have closed the courthouse in our district of Ardanuç in ten years; you closed the Ardanç Middle School in 2006; the ORUS lumber factory was the most important industrial establishment; you closed the People's Bank in 2004; you closed the Ardanuk Health Occupational High School in 2004; you closed a large coup in the Bulanık village; you closed the hospital of the Rivers, the village of the Rivers; you closed the Rivers Middle School in Aydın village; you closed the public clinics; you struck a large coup. At the coming point, the Ardanuchite says: "What sin do we have? Look, I want to make it clear that the Ardanuchites, the Artvinians, are people who have absorbed the principles of the light revolution of Mustafa Kemal. Do you say to the Ardanuchites in such a geography: "Go on a hunger strike, go up the mountain, and speak out your problems? Are you saying to the Ardanuch, my dear friends? [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Therefore, in the name of the Ardanuchians, the city of the patriotic people, who have embraced the principles and revolutions of the republic, I am honored to tell you about these problems, to shout to you in this House, in the temple of Mustafa Kemal. I also offer my love and respect to the Ardanuch who are all over Turkey and whose heart is beating here today, and I say, "Thank you, thank you."
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0027par0302	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Now, to the contrary, Mr. Israel Barracks, the MP of Artvin. Here you go, Mr. Barracks.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0028par0306	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's Council of Investigation motion. I salute your committee. Mr. Uður, I want to thank my colleague for his opportunity to tell us, at least, about the investments in Artvin.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0029par0308	Ardanuch, Ardanuch.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0028par0309	I'd like to say a few words in general before we get into the matter of Ardanuch. THE understanding of the politics of the EC PARTY is essential. The AK PARTY has never had a political position in populist politics and partisanism, from the day it was founded and from the day it was in power. The AK PARTY has no idea of punishing people who don't vote for themselves in the politics of politics; it has chosen its service, its service, its service, and the entire country's service, with an understanding of politics in line with the needs of the country and the truth of the country. In this sense, in Artvin, the AK PARTY has made serious investments since it was established, since it was power. Artvin is the head of the provinces that receive the largest share in public investments. Today, Turkey's highest dam -- which we will open at 12/12/2012 -- was held at the Deeper Dam -- Artvin. Today, the Hopa Tunnel -- the longest tunnel in Turkey -- will be opened in 2014.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0030par0312	Mr. Congressman, fix this.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0028par0313	Artvin is a province in the capital of the provinces that migrated after 1980 -- as in many cities in Turkey -- but if you look at the last year, the population of Artvin -- especially Ardanuk -- has stopped migration, and in 2010, the population of Ardanquk, 11.613, rose to 11.822. What's important about all the services we've done in the time of power is to improve the quality of life there and stop the migration. Studies in this sense have yielded results, and the migration from Artvin has now stopped, and even regressions have begun. Artvin was also mentioned in Ardanuch that the health clinics were closed. Dear friends, you are all aware of health policies throughout Turkey that have been under the EC PARTY rule for ten years. We have 75 million people watching where health policies come from, where health care comes from. Of course, in structural changes, you tend to replace certain institutions with new, modern institutions. Here, the care of family medicine has made it necessary for the closure of health clinics in many places, villages. Now, with family medicine, each person has a family physician, and this system is being implemented in a very modern way. Again, Artvin was mentioned in Ardanuch, that the educational institutions had been shut down. Health Care School continues its services in multi-program high school, but the closing of Artvin Ardanuç Middle School is to the credit of all viewers and audiences. You know, in February 28th, elementary schools and secondary schools were merged after the release of the Elementary Law. It's not right to make it look like the Ardanuch Middle School, which was closed 15 years ago, was closed today.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0031par0320	What about the courthouse, the courthouse?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0028par0321	I'll get to the courthouse. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, your appointment of HSYK, has come to the agenda in the past days, and there have been talks about this -- in accordance with its criteria, courts have been closed in a certain number of districts throughout Turkey, which do not comply with those criteria, but in the criteria of HSYK, you can't imagine that the district, Ardanuk, is the Republican People's Party, looking at the issue.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0031par0323	A little bit.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0028par0324	You all know that most of the closing counties are AK PARTI (AK PARTI) and that the courts have been closed in Rize, Tripoli, and many other provinces. The court is closed in Ardanuch, but instead, we are giving new institutions, new establishments to Ardanuch. Our ministry, responsible for family and social policy, today, has completed a state-of-the-art health and rehabilitation centre, which cost 96 beds in Ardanuch, which cost 3 trillion dollars, and will open up a very modern facility, and may it be good luck to the Ardanuchans this year. Once again, when I became a MP, one of the first complaints I had been told was that for thirty-five years -- look, I sincerely express it -- there is a dream of Ardanuch. The road to Ardanuk-Ardahan has never been completed, it's 30 miles. Ardanuç is a town with no access and no way out, and in our one-year working period, during our parliamentary term, a tender was made for the 14km road that was missing, and in 2014 the road would be fully completed. In fact, a month ago, I came down from Ardahan to Ardanuch, and I personally examined the work there. And again, the Bell-Ardanç road was also tendered by the District Directorate of Erzurum Roads, and his work continues. During the AK PARTY rule, Ardanuk will have opened two new life vessels, two good transportations. And again, in Ardanuç, one hundred and sixty-eight dwellings were made and distributed to citizens by the TOKI channel. At the moment, our attempts to open a university of applied sciences in Ardanuk are being carried out by both the rectory and the NGO. We have initiatives at the point of opening the open prison. At that point, our Undersecretary of Justice personally examined the location, and several alternatives have been set. Hopefully, the fact that we have given Ardanuch an open prison in the coming period will be one of the important institutions that will lead him to a much more lively, active, and much more beautiful position. And again, the project, which was made by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security at the point of the prevention of immigration in Artvin, is being employed within our districts and provinces as part of the project for the benefit of the community. The important thing is to increase employment here, to avoid unemployment, and at this point, Artvin has taken a very serious distance. In health investments, our Artvin Hospital has been completed, our Arhavi Hospital has been auctioned, its construction continues; our Hopa Hospital has been tendered, and, hopefully, health investments will continue in Artvin. So I'll tell you this: Artvin is getting a very serious cut from the public, from public investments. In short, from yesterday to today, Artvin was prettier, and he says tomorrow would be better, and I salute you all with my deepest respect.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0032par0336	Thank you, Mr. Barracks. The third speaker, in favor of the Slap Congressman Reşat Right. Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0033par0340	Thank you, Mr. President. I have received a pledge from Artvin MP Uður Bayraktutan and 58 MPs in favour of a research motion issued in the District of Ardanuç, Artvin Province, on the charge of closing several institutions and institutions and reducing the district. I salute the High Council. Artvin Province is one of the most beautiful provinces of the Black Sea region. Ardanuch County, of course, is one of the most rare, beautiful parts of our beautiful province. This motion, issued by our friend Uğur Bayraktutan, has basically expressed a very important wound in the Black Sea Region, both in the Central Anatolian Region and in the Eastern Anatolian Region. So there's a very serious migration in these areas. People leave their territory and migrate to other places. Therefore, we face very big, serious problems. Imagine what it's like for a man to leave his territory and move to another place. There are serious problems at present in many counties in the inner Anatolian region in particular. Animalism is over. See, there was a very serious history of animalism in the Ardanuch region, in Artvin, but recently we see that animalism has ended in Ardanuch, as in many parts of Turkey, in Artvin, so the animal manufacturer has given up production. Of course, this is also interesting: for the first time in our country, the import of hay has begun. Here we see the most obvious sign of how agriculture is finished. So they've finished animalism. And by that, it's the government's work and policies that have ended up here. Animalism is rapidly ending. In the coming years, perhaps, at work, in summer, sheep will not be able to feed, or the lamb meat will almost be missed by the Turkish nation. We see the most obvious examples in the Eastern Anatolian region, we see them in the inner Anatolian region, and we see them in the Black Sea region. Of course, in the Black Sea Region, especially in the Artvin region, it is true that agricultural land is very small because agriculture in those areas is very difficult, as it is steep. Human life is very difficult, but besides, if you don't support livestock, if you don't support animal production, then you're facing a lot of serious problems in that area. We call it many places of Asia Minor. Here is Tokat. It is Sivas. It is Yozgat. It is Giresun. It is the Army. People in these areas leave their territory and migrate to other places. We have to find a solution to this. In the province of Tokat, for example, the province of Tokat, where we are members of the state of Tokat, it has been reduced from 7 MPs to 5 MPs, and has fallen from 800,000 populations to 600 thousand populations. You see the same painting, past it, you see it in the Army, you see it in Giresun, you see it in Tripoli, you see it in Artvin, you see it in Hopa. This motion, given by the Congressman at the moment, should be an example of why people migrate in the inner Anatolian region, why they leave their land and go elsewhere, why they leave their agricultural land altogether and go elsewhere? This must be investigated. It's particularly about wheat... look, it's the wheat producer, beet producer, and I can't plant it anymore in the days ahead of us. Imagine, the hay imports have begun. The fact that hay imports have begun means that animalism is over. In the coming days, livestock will perhaps crawl on land in the Eastern Anatolian region, in the Black Sea region, and thus be imported and headed off. Although, as of right now, there's been a huge reaction and no reaction to the past, to import animal intakes, but I'm afraid that in the coming period, animal imports will begin again, as well as the end of animalism in these regions. Come on, let's support these motions from here, and let's make sure that we have the reasons for the migration, the reasons for the migration, and what kind of migration is going to happen again. See, right now, right now, recently, here's a very important law the day before that is law in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This law has many flaws, especially when it comes to the dissolution of our nation's national unity and unity, where, you know, there's a very big problem that's going to get to the federation, to the process of politicalisation, where there's started. Another important issue is the closure of municipalities, especially in the Central Anatolian region. With the city shut down, the migration will begin again, dear MPs. Hence, such matters need to be considered. In this direction, at some point, the Great National Assembly of Turkey needs to be prevented from migration, re-routed from those major cities to those areas, to work and research at the point of arrival. But what we've seen is that this is the painting that we're afraid of: unfortunately, the closure of those municipalities or the closure of the municipalities will speed up the migration, and therefore the people in that area will not be able to make a living. He doesn't make money in agriculture, he's got livestock, people don't make a living where they're born. So what are these people going to do when they can't make a living? They'll leave their territory, go somewhere else. Where's he gonna go? He'll go to Bursa, he'll go to Istanbul, he'll go to Ankara. Where he's been, do you think he's out there waiting for these people, work and work? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, They go out there, they try to live in the slums, they try to live on minimum wage, they try to make a living under very difficult circumstances. That means that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must certainly extend its hand to the people of that region and to the people who are leaving their territory and going to other provinces. So it is imperative that such proposals should not be ignored in such a simple way, that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should stand on these issues in a serious sense, and that the return projects that would be able to reassess the paintings that appeared afterwards and make them attractive to the people of the region must be presented. Of course, this incident, which is now in Ardanuch, is also seen in the Zile, in the Zile of Tokat, and also in the Reshadiye, which is seen in the Sushehri of Sivas. When we're in these parts, the people of this place are leaving and moving to other places. So, let's all support this motion for Ardanuç and form research commissions, and then the Anatolian people will feed where they were born, where they were born, and I say we're in favor of this motion, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0034par0354	Thank you, Mr. Right. The last speaker is Mr. Recep Special, the MP of Isparta. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0035par0358	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have made a promise to the Republican People's Party that Artvin MP Uğur Bayraktutan has been asked to investigate whether public enterprises in Ardanuç district of Artvin have been reduced or closed. Because, today, we're going to have a very serious discussion of the general generalization of the National Movement Party, which has taken place in our Constitution, which is a very serious place in the Civil Code. Of course, we don't say anything about the problems of that county not being discussed here, like we do underestimating any county. The more things are done to Ardanuch, the more we all stand behind him. There are nine hundred or so districts in Turkey, and if there are such motions to investigate each of them, there will be no more MPs here to give to the research commissions. Let's also discuss these questions during the hours of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's work on the TRT 3° open. Let's make it clear to our citizens what they're being given on the subject, so they can listen.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0036par0362	Congressman, have you ever seen Ardanuch?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0035par0363	...but unfortunately...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0036par0364	Have you ever seen Ardanuch?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0035par0365	...our opposition party is probably jealous that the other opposition party wants to catch up with him, so he doesn't want to discuss it during the hours when the TV's on. That's why he's making these motions.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0037par0366	Have it published by morning!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0035par0367	After that, according to the Civil Charter 37, they have a demand, according to 37, that the law be taken directly into the agenda, so that there will be no discussion of the geneorization on TV time alone. I don't think they're...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0038par0368	Have you ever seen Ardanuch, Congressman?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0035par0369	We went to Ardanuch, we saw, we traveled.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0038par0370	Where did you see it?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0035par0371	Like Ardanuk, all districts of Turkey are important.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0038par0372	When did you leave? When did you see him?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0035par0373	The problems of all the counties can be discussed here in five minutes off the agenda. That's how I see the seriousness of the gene, given the motions for research, and the fact that a congressman is being brought up here just to get him to speak. We're going to discuss the questions we've been given about our three ministries, according to the decision we made on the General Assembly on November 6, 2012, on our agenda. Therefore, I would like to extend my regards to all of you by informing you that we do not agree with this motion for research, in the idea that the watered-down gene will be diluted further.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0039par0377	No, no, please, it's rude.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0040par0378	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0041par0379	Mr. President, nothing discussed in this Parliament is watered down. It's also disrespectful to Parliament. Mr. Orator will take that back. (AK PARTY RINGS)
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0040par0380	Thank you. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0042par0382	Mr. President, he said that the petition has been filed to the Parliament's research motion that I've submitted. I want a two-minute promise to fix it. Tell him he's sorry.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0040par0383	Please, not to challenge anything else.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0043par0385	Get the water off that stand, the water. Let the Kavas take the water off the stand. Get the water from the watered-down podium.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0042par0388	Mr. President, the most valuable MPs, the MP in his statement earlier said that the Parliament's motion for research related to the Ardanuç was submitted by me. Dear Congressman, the court is closed in Ardanuk. People are going 50 miles to get a criminal record, Mr. Congressman...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0044par0390	It's closed in my county too.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0042par0391	And you know what they call it as a reason to shut it down? What do they call it as a reason to be shut down? They call it low-work capacity, low-intensity work. I'm calling from here to all the Ardanuchans. Ardanquists, if you committed a crime, your courthouse wouldn't be closed. What kind of a disgrace is that? What kind of a disgrace is that? [[CHP's "Bravo" rows, "Bravo" lines, "Bravo" lines, "AK" lines, "Bravo" lines, "Bravo" lines, "Bravo" sounds, "Bravo" sounds, "Bravo" sounds, "Bravo" sounds, "Bravo" sounds.]] My dear friends, the court has been shut down for not committing crimes. When I held a press conference on this, they said: ▪Artvin MP encourages people to commit crimes. Our court is closed in Ardanuch, my dear MP. At what time did you go to Ardanuch? Look, Artvin just spoke to the MP, with all due respect. Can you tell me when you went to Ardanuch? Only on the map can you find the Ardanuch, my precious congressman from Google Earth. Have you ever found Ardanuch on a map where he is?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0045par0396	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0042par0397	Ardanuch is the city where patriotic people live. I pay my respects to all the Ardanuchans.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0045par0400	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan, thank you. Dear friends, I submit the Republican People's Party motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, there's a motion that the motion for the gene question has been withdrawn, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We withdraw Gensoru Proposition 11/16 on Mr. Bulent Arinc to ensure that General Assembly Studies be published over the TRT and later renewed. We reveal to you all that you know and all that you need. MHP Group Deputy Chairman of the MHP Group Members of parliament (11/16) the primary Gensorial Admission has been withdrawn and removed from the agenda. Now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration; I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It has been 45 days since you were transferred to the Commission by the President of Law Proposal 2/273, but has not been discussed and concluded by the Commission. I demand and demand that my Law Proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly agenda under Article 37 of the Turkish National Assembly. Now, as the bidder, Mr. Hope Oran, the Istanbul MP. Mr. Oran...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0046par0426	Mr. President, let the second speaker speak.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0045par0427	No, sir? Well, then, we have another congressman who wants five minutes to talk, and he's here. Mr. Altay, come in, Sinop MP.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0047par0431	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. I have received a pledge from our Istanbul MP, Hope Oran, on the legal proposal for student passes. Before we move on to the proposal of the law, I would also like to point out that we are all, of course, upset that there have been a number of incidents that did not suit Parliament during these recent parliamentary talks of the Metropolitan Bill of Law, which have been discussed in this Parliament, but on this occasion, I would like to point out that it is the duty of the legislators of Parliament who run the session before all of us. I believe and knowingly say that the members of the Parliament, who led this session, have repeatedly and regularly violated the articles 61, 64, 67, 68 and 69. Parliament Speakers are entitled to the initiative and austerity of the Civil Code. In one article, for example, the president can make promises. Mr. President, then you'll appreciate your authority to make promises, give them or don't, but if the Civil Code says, for example, in any case and in any case, the last word is the MP's. You, sir, the group's vice presidents have agreed, and I can't make that promise. You have no right to say that. As a matter of fact, in the special session of November 10th, I requested a statement in accordance with Article 61 of the Civil Code. I need you to make that promise to me, absolutely and absolutely. If the members of the group of the four political parties with the group are taking this parliament by agreement, get out of there. From now on -- on my own behalf -- I want you to know, Mr. President, that I will show a more sensitive reflex in violations of the Civil Code. Dear friends, the need to eliminate a major misdemeanor by the motion of our Istanbul MP was known to us as a matter of many complaints. I hope, today, with your free will, we will all find the opportunity to undo this great error, this setback, together in this Parliament. The nature of the proposal, in summary, is that students, for example, are allowed to remove all the passports given to students regarding the discount they use in the transport vehicles of municipalities, and the student identity card, which is obtained from every school, should be used all over Turkey and every municipality. As a matter of fact, the identity documents of our security forces, for example, should be valid in all the municipalities of Turkey as well as in all the city buses, as well as in the student documents our students received from school. That's a new pass, that's a separate cost of passing... kids who read with the father allowance you call a student. E, you've already condemned their father to the wages of hunger and misery. A fundamental problem that concerns 23 million of our students in Turkey will also be solved if this Parliament is provided today that Mr. Hope Oran's proposal of the law should be brought directly to the agenda by Article 37. Our students' problems... speaking of students, of course we can't end up counting them. The government removed the fees, a positive approach, and we find it positive. Look, it means we're good at what's done well. We say it's good, but it's incomplete, of course. So you think the second-school students prefer second-guessing kids because you're a rich kid, Mr. Secretary? These kids, they have to choose here because of the quota problem. It is clearly against the Constitution's principle of equality to remove the tuition in the first course and not remove it in the second course. The government cannot violate the Constitution. You can come in here and replace it with your numerical majority, but you can't get a job in the middle despite the Constitution. Likewise, on this occasion, knowing the opportunity, the age of departure from universities is 28. This is not appropriate for Western norms, with military grounds, etcetera, and so on, I'd like to warn the government and the ruling majority and demand that the age of leaving the university should be 30. This is a very fundamental problem in Turkey. This needs to be resolved soon. If I get into dorm problems... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...it's not enough time, and it's not enough time. I call on the government to be a little more careful and sensitive, especially at the point of the immediate fulfillment of middle-school student dorms, including higher education. Mr. President, I'm dying. Now, soon one of you would come out and we'd just opened up 40 dorms........ half of those dorms have been open for quite some time already. Thank you, though, but it's not enough. Students are miserable, we want a cure, we want a solution. That's the solution. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0048par0448	Mr. Altay, thank you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, I've had to make a statement on a statement from Mr. Altay. On November 10th, as you know, it was the anniversary of the death of the Great Ataturk, and in the work schedule we were given, there were people, including presidents, who wanted to speak, MPs, and we made a promise to MPs and to the President General. Now, other than that -- of course, there's a rule in normal negotiations called the last-word MP. There's a rule -- that Mr. Gök was the last word in your writing. He was in the system before your application, but we couldn't promise other friends, in addition to him. Otherwise, of course you're right, the last word in any other meeting is your congressman, and we'll comply. However, not only the presidents, but our fellow lawmakers must comply with the Civil Code, which must be completed within its time. We'll work better if we don't have to, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0049par0453	Mr. President, it's an option. That's where your authority is, so you could use that authority and give me an extra minute.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0048par0454	Well, I don't think I have that kind of authority because groups mean...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0049par0455	Yes, there is, Mr. President, you have authority there.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0048par0456	Wait a second... Groups means the whole House. We kept it up for ten minutes on the schedule we were given. That was it. In normal times, we're always ready to give, as long as you want to talk.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0049par0458	Fortunately, it was a special agenda that day, and I didn't object.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0048par0459	Now, the bidder is Mr. Hope Oran. Mr. Oran, please.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0050par0462	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute you all. I've already read the proposal. Our Sinop MP has expressed our views on this proposal. I think it's a matter for all of us. So, as a result, if our young people are our future, if we care about our young people, I think their demands, their problems are all our problems. So this is a separate request for AKP people, a separate request for Republican People's Party members, a separate request for the DP, not a separate request for the BDP. It's a request for all of our young people, all of our futures. I'd like to point out that at this point, I expect you to have common sense. When you look, each city has different applications, and when a student travels through Turkey, he needs different permits. When we remove the pass, our students can travel freely all over Turkey on a discount, with a single student ID card, or a single card. We need to give them that. In the same way, we have old people who have common value, pensioners. This offer provides the opportunity for our elders, both over 60 years old and our chief crown. If we're saying social state, if we believe in social government, if we feel it's not a word, it's in essence, then I'm asking you all to give us a positive opinion on this application. It's a problem involving about 20 million people, one of four, and these people, young people, elderly people, expect us to make that decision. We need to give them the equality of this opportunity; we need to give them these rights, these basic rights, in teaching, in education. The right to education, as a result, is freedom, and we need to look at it that way, and in society, we need to have every link in the chain. Because a chain is as strong as its weakest link. If we strengthen that ring here, it'll be a strong Turkey, a strong country, a strong society. Congressmans, this request -- as I have just stated -- is being expressed and requested by our young people from all over Turkey, all over Turkey. When we look at these young and old people in particular, almost 20 percent of them have social security rights, others have no social security rights. These, our students, our young people, they don't just have this problem, they have transportation problems with it, they have nutrition issues, they have housing, they have dorm problems, they have scholarship problems. We need to solve these problems together. Our Sinop MP, Mr. Engin Altay, has just stated that we call what is right. There's nothing concrete about tuition in the RD bill, but there's a step that needs to be made clear, so we need our students to take advantage of it next year. We're looking on one side, and now, from time to time, it's the students, the young people, our future. Let them have more say. We say, "Let them have more say." But we have to find solutions to their rights, and we have to take care of them. One of the most controversial issues on our agenda is that we have students on trial, under arrest for demanding free education, students in prison. Thus, we need to fulfill the requirements of the social state together; we need to maintain the social state not only in a word but in essence. I believe, on this occasion, that the High Assembly will handle this matter in a sensible, sensitive manner, and I expect you to raise your fingers positively about the decision you're going to make regarding our young people's rights of transportation. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0051par0474	Thank you, Mr. Oran. I propose to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Congressmans, we're moving on to the special agenda's part of the agenda. On behalf of the 1st group's Nationalist Action Party Group, we are starting talks on whether the group's Deputy Chairs, İzmir MP Oktay Vural and Mersin MP Mehmet Shandir, will be brought to an end of Turkish agriculture and livestock sectors with the wrongly implemented policies, and will cause farmers and producers to suffer. Government? He's in position. I do not re-read the motion because it was previously distributed and was read in the 16th Union of the General Assembly, dated 6/11/2012. Members of parliament, according to Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the Council of Ministers, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers will be promised in this meeting. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motionr, 20 minutes for the group and the government. Now, Mr. Kemalettin Yilmaz, MP of Afyonkarahisar. Mr. Yilmaz, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0052par0489	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable lawmakers, as the National Movement Party, I have made a commitment to Mr. Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. I salute your high council. Mr. President, I'm afraid there's nothing more to be said or said in the sad state of Turkish agriculture. As the farmer moans, as the production falls, there's nothing left to say. We've been on every platform for ten years, but on every platform, we've been talking about problems, but we have a government that's blocked our every word, an insensitive Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. We gave Mr. Secretary a question, why did we give it to him? I'd like to briefly express it to you in essence. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has not been able to co-ordinate, order, stability of production in the country, and our production is shrinking day by day. I'm afraid the bill for three years of import policy in livestock has been very heavy. In Turkey, about $3 billion was spent on carcass meat and animal imports, as well as the support of foreign producers, Tony., Johnny. Unfortunately, our local manufacturer was extremely victimised by this import, and it is estimated that the damage to our local manufacturer, our Becisser, is about $5 billion. In the last three years we've had low-interest loan applications to support our animalism, and there's over $6 billion in support of these loans and these loans. The amount of support is over $5 billion. The consumer and producer are unfortunately not satisfied because of the imports in the market for loan taps, which are so supported. Besiciers have lost carcas meat, which cost 15 to 16 lira due to the height of input costs, due to imports. Mr. Secretary, if we want to briefly sum up the imports, how did Turkey get to this import point... in 2007 2008, the price of food has increased by more than 100 percent, while the price of raw milk in Turkey at the same time has dropped by half. Carkas had a serious fall in meat, but there was a significant decrease in meat for three years. These were signs of a crisis, so to speak. I'm afraid the Department of Agriculture didn't manage the process very well. Just as he had not managed the bird flu and swine flu attacks before, unfortunately, he did not manage well, even though the signals of this crisis had come. He ignored the industry's recommendations and warnings. Instead of taking additional measures against drought, he changed his policies on animal support and went directly into the payment system per animal. In this wrong policy process, more than a million dairy animals have been slaughtered, giving 20 or 30 kilograms of milk a day. Without Ana, there's no calf, precious MPs. This crisis in milk was not well managed, and it began to appear in meat in 2009. Karkas meat suddenly rose from about 9 to 10 liras to 17 to 18 liras. The ministry interpreted this situation as speculative, and we have enough animals, no need for imports. However, with Mr. Prime Minister, who knows everything from education to health, justice to the economy, and the only decision-making prime minister, I do not feed my consumer meat for $30. With his approaches, Turkey met with imported meat, so to speak, Hicazi. At this point, our country has also been condemned to imported meat, imported milk powder, imported animal and imported sacrifice, and even recently imported hay. Meanwhile, the Meat and Fish Foundation has been given import authority. The changes in customs taxes have been made both dizzy and questionable in terms of timing. As of August 1, 2010, those investing in livestock were given zero interest loans, which was a really nice approach. However, there has been a serious increase in animal prices due to demand for zero interest loans. Many of our producers, many of our entrepreneurs, even though these increases are high, have invested in animals at high interest, using zero interest loans, regardless of the prices that go up from $4,000 to about $67,000. With the increase of imports, the animal prices were regressed, the price of meat declined, causing animal animals to do at least 2,000 lira per animal. Even giant companies who can't compete with imported meat, cheap meat, because of high input costs, have chosen to withdraw from the market or import it, import it. It happened to our local manufacturer, my dear friends. The decision of the Council of Ministers issued in the Official Gazette on October 30, 2012 and the customs tax on carkas meat has been increased by 100 per cent and the customs tax on importing live animals has also been increased by 40 per cent. With these increases, the price of meat has risen again. The Association of Meat and Fish sold meat for today at $18.5, which is $16 as imports started. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, is this the best kind of plant production? Agricultural inputs, which are diesel, seed, fertilizer, medicine, and electricity used in irrigation. The cost of these is so high that, as in other countries that have advanced in agriculture, Turkey needs to be really subsidized in addition to subsidised subsidiaries, at least the VAT (KTV) and the EVP should be seriously reduced. In fact, the high cost of these production entries, the height, the cost, is also negative. Which is the indispensable tomato of our tables -- in a recent discovery, we have a data from the Virtue Chamber of Agriculture -- that costs 61.5 cents a kilo, but that's 55 to 60 cents a pound. So that the valued lawmakers, the tomato manufacturer from 1 yard, only the tomato manufacturer, are losing $277 due to the height of input costs. And there's nothing else to do, but we have a farmer, a manufacturer, who has to produce them even though they're damaged, and he continues to produce them patiently, stubbornly, with faith. Respected lawmakers, I'd like to briefly compare the status of the current input prices with the input prices of 2002, which you consider to be a national. We don't need another example, while in 2002, our farmer delivers 10 kilos of beets to buy 1 litre of diesel -- one of the basic products -- is now delivering 30 to 35 kilos of beets to buy 1 litre of diesel. You know, where they're from, where they're from, their stories, short, simple and clear. Honourable lawmakers, not only are the beets producers so miserable -- which are often on the agendas, the television screens, the newspaper headlines -- because they don't pay for the potato, because they don't pay for the onion, because a lot of people are willing to kill themselves to get rid of debt, interest, credit, and even pawnbrokers -- and many fields, lots of land; while many tractors are supposed to be in production, unfortunately, they're waiting in seven warehouses. A lot of our land waits for them to be sold with mortgages. Mr. Secretary, these are the circumstances of our farmers, but you're responsible for organizing them and sustaining them. These are events that must have happened with the staff. Minister, are you aware of the discomfort of your staff, the unhappiness of your staff? Our minister of veterinary medicine has given us some comfort, things are going well. A expectation, unfortunately, caused the mountain to give birth to mice. The Ministry of Agriculture and Village Affairs staff -- especially recently -- are deeply disturbed by political pressures. Mr. Secretary, even transfers from the spouse's situation don't come without permission from a TOC-SEN. Agricultural volunteers are having a hard time making union choices, you know? The ATM officers, who have been formed as a result of regulations under the rule of law, are also concerned about the unhappy and uneasy use of authority. With unhappy and restless employees, our country's agriculture and livestock sector cannot survive the crisis. It's not possible for him to handle mandatory crises well. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0053par0504	Mr. Yilmaz, thank you very much. Now, in order, we'll meet your commitment demands on behalf of the groups. In first place, Mr. Vahab Sefer on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin MP. Mr. Chooser, please. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0054par0510	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. I have made a commitment to the National Movement Party's motion to open a gene for Mr. Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. It's not just in our country, it's a strategic sector agriculture industry all over the world right now. So don't let our frequent discussion of this matter bother anyone. At times, the Prime Minister, the ministers, the ministers, the MPs, has a serious service. We accept that the gene is a serious institution, but the issues we're talking about are serious issues, and this is a serious place, serious people talk serious issues in serious places. Now, populations are growing around the world, populations are growing in our country, environmental problems are increasing with it. Global warming, a number of environmental problems, droughts, all of which, of course, affect agriculture, agriculture. In developing countries around the world, prosperity in developing countries is increasing, so demand for agricultural products is increasing. These are the most important factors that affect the direct agricultural sector, agricultural production in the world and in our country. So, is Turkey really an agricultural country? Is the Hinterlant of Turkey available for agriculture in Anatolia? What's the history of that, what's the history of that? In this ancient land, where has agriculture been since before, how has it been done? Of course you need to know that. Turkey is an area of approximately 78 million hectares, and 28 million hectares of this can be produced agriculturally. The area we're now producing is about 24 million hectares, not a bad number. There are eight gene centers in the world, three of them in Turkey. Turkey has 4,000 plants that only grow in this ancient land. 12,500 different kinds of plants can be produced, grown on this land. He has significant advantages, as a country, in the agriculture sector. So, what mechanism is running and running such an important structure, such an important sector? Of course, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. So, what does the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism do? You have 74-75 million people, this population needs healthy and balanced nutrition, needs food security, needs food credibility, needs producer's well-being, needs consumer benefit, needs environmental health. So, with all these mechanisms co-equipped, the ministry that delivers and manages healthily, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, that means it's an important ministry. 25 per cent of employment -- policies, employment, 25 per cent in working life -- affect people. In total, directly or indirectly, 25 per cent, one-quarter of the population from this sector, we can understand how important this ministry is in its function. My dear friends, where is agriculture in Turkey? Why is the opposition at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey so sharp in opposition to agriculture; it is a question of the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism? At the end of 2002, 2012 -- we're coming to the end of 2012 -- from what points did Turkey's agriculture come to, we need to explore them. Since the end of 2002, AKP governments have ruled Turkey, so the AKP-based Ministry of Agriculture manages the agricultural sector. He took office in June 2005, and has been the highest human since June 2005, leading Turkey's agriculture. What happened 2003, 2011... as a result, if we do a numerical assessment, the Turkish economy has grown slightly above 5 per cent in general, while Turkey's agriculture has grown by around 2 per cent. So, what happened in production? Turkey has significant production resources, grain production. Turkey is a country that can grow more or less each other, especially if it changes the years it has consumed, especially with its production of wheat. See the 2002 production of 19,500,000 tonnes of wheat produced in Turkey. Today, in 2012 Turkey, more than 19 million, 19 million, 500,000, 20 million tonnes of wheat can be produced. Arpa production: In 2002, Turkey produced 8,300,000 tonnes of barley, and today barley production was reduced to 7.1 to 7.2 million tonnes. There's been an increase in corn production. So, do we import wheat? Of course we import wheat. For years, 1 million tons, 1.5 million tons, 2 million tons. So, should we consider this wheat import as part of the processing regime, as the Minister said? So Turkey is the number-one exporter of flour in the world, so we're importing from exports. Do you have to look at it like that? According to the Minister, according to his assessment, but not to me. Turkey needs very, very clear wheat imports every year. At least Turkey's numerically produced wheat has a quality wheat shortage, even if it can support the wheat it consumes. Why is there a quality wheat shortage? It's the most important pest that affects the quality of wheat, so you can't fight it enough, or you can't produce the quality seed, you can't invent it, so you can't do your job as a Ministry. Egypt production has increased. There's been a dramatic increase in the last nine years, but you're looking at Turkey's feed industry, the starch industry, the corn it needs, the corn it produces, it doesn't cover its consumption. Again, according to the years, Turkey is an importer of corn. The most important production pens in Turkey, especially in the Southeast Anatolian region, have been significantly reduced during the AKP administrations in the Eastern Anatolian region. Turkey was a net exporter, Turkey exported chickpeas, Turkey exported lentils, but today Turkey became a clear importer of the balance. Look, I want to give you a few numbers: Turkey was producing about 650,000 tons of chickpeas in 2002, and today, in 2012, it dropped to a production level of around 500,000 tons. There were 250,000 tons of baked beans produced in 2002, today we produce 200,000 tons of beans. We had a total production of 565,000 tons in lentils, which dropped to 438,000. There's a dramatic decline in tobacco: we produce 153,000 tons, we produce 45,000 tons of tobacco today. There's no improvement in the beets, no fall, and we're producing about 16,16,500 tons of sugar beets. Snow is an important industrial plant. Turkey was a net exporter before 2002, exporting cotton. During the AKP administrations, our cotton production fell rapidly. In 2002, Turkey produced 2.6 million tons of blunt cotton. In 2009, the figure dropped to 1 million 725,000 levels. Now, for the last two years, it's been a proper application of the Havza Bazlı Production and Support Model. Especially in products where Turkey is a net importer, there are higher rates to pay for these products, especially in industrial plants where we are net importers of oil like cotton. In the last two years, cotton production has reached 2 million 580,000 tonnes in 2011 and about 2,300 thousand tonnes of cotton this year. My dear friends, the fatty seeds were a major problem for Turkey before 2002, but the measures taken by AKP governments in this ten-year period have briefed us on a recovery, not after 2002, but even before 2002. See, we're paying about $3 billion a year for imports in fatty seeds right now. In 2002, we were importing 613,000 tons of soybeans, an important fat seed, used in bait industry, used in food industry. Today we import 1.3 million tons of soybeans. Look, that number went up to 1,750,000 tons in 2010. Kolza: We only import 1,000 tons in 2002, today we import 122,000 tons. In 2010, the imports of colza again increased to 207,000 tonnes. Sunflower: An important oil seed in both the food industry and derivatives of the food industry. In 2002, the year before the AKP came to power, Turkey imports 129,000 tons of sunflower seeds, while today 91,000 tonnes of Turkey imports sunflowers, and as a total, Turkey imports 798 000 tonnes of oiled seed in 2002, while today we import 2 million 330,000 tonnes of fatty seeds as of late 2011. And the money we paid for imports in 2002 was 223 million dollars, and in 2011, that amount was up to $1,358 billion. Again, our crude oil imports have gone from $340 million to $1,338 billion. In total, Turkey's annual pay for fatty seeds and derivatives reached nearly $4 billion in 2012 today. So, my dear friends, these numbers I've given are the points in 2002-2012 that I said at the beginning of my speech, where policies in this important sector bring Turkey. The vegetable and fruit industry: Last week the Republican People's Party had a motion to open a parliamentary investigation on this issue, and we talked here again. Unscheduled, unscheduled, unscheduled, short-term, mid-term, long-term, long-term projections result in problems in the vegetable and fruit industry. One year -- you know from your country -- the most important production pen in your region -- that year, production is less or more exports, but the next year, when different factors come in, you see that the product doesn't pay. Why is that? Now, of course, vegetables and fruit are given field benefits; make fruit plants, give plant support, give field support, give plant support... production is increasing in Turkey. As a result, since we can't open up to foreign markets on this issue, the ministries on this issue cannot work as a co-direction, these sectors are also coming to a standstill. Look, the state of Turkey's foreign trade in agricultural products: we exported $15.3 billion as of 2011, we import $17.6 billion, open $2.3 billion. So the difference between exports and imports in 2010 is also minus 203 million dollars. My dear friends, the issue that producers complain about most is the input costs; the price of diesel, the price of agricultural electricity, the price of fertilizer. These are three basic entries that hurt the manufacturer, that made the manufacturer scream, that brought the manufacturer to the point of rebellion. The diesel is over 4 TL, over 4 TL. How much was the diesel when the AKP came to power in 2002? It was 1 TL, 4 times the price. Let's look at 2002 wheat prices, 2002 vegetable prices, 2002 cotton prices, let's look at fruit prices. The entry prices have a minimum of 3 times, 4 times, 5 times the price increase in agricultural production from 2002 to 2012, but you're looking at a price increase in agricultural production, 2 times, 2.5 times, the most dramatic increase is 3 times. Now, in such a balance, how is the manufacturer going to make money from the product he produces? How is this going to keep production going? So, who's going to set these balances? The government will set it up, but the government is watching, and the government says that we support agricultural production. We gave $7.2 billion last year, we raised $8 billion, we predict over $8 billion this year, we're doing our job. Whatever the manufacturer did, I let him go. Now, with that understanding, you can't bring agriculture to a point in Turkey. The most important problem of the last few days, even the last few years, is specifically in the animal industry. My friend, the speaker of the National Movement Party, has made some statements. Look, especially since 2007, it's been like a team of animals, one down, one up, one up, one up, two forwards, one back, this is the animal industry. First, dairy producers went into crisis -- 2007, 2008 -- bait prices went up, couldn't produce, milk animals were cut off. Then, in mid-2009, the meat producers had a crisis, and again, some of the measures of the period... were distributed without interest of $7 billion, and in the process, billions of pounds of animalism were paid to support. So, what's the point today? Frustration again, remorse again, bankruptcy again! Again, people are screaming, selling 1 kilo of milk, not getting 1 kilo of bait, not paying off their debts. Because he's got a mortgage on zero interest, an attractive loan, an incentive loan, he bought a milk pet for $7,000, he bought a milk cow for $3,500 today, so he can pay off his debts for $3,500. In various ministry institutions -- I'm not leaving anyone under suspicion, we're all following this -- corruption has taken over. The Ministry did not or did not do what was necessary. Some allegations of corruption are on trial, but the Ministry needs to take drastic measures. Look, for four years in Diyarbakır -- a pyramid scheme has been set up there -- one of them has been collecting money from the manufacturers, the public, in an official institution; the Ministry of Ankara doesn't know about it; the Regional Manager doesn't know about it, the General Manager doesn't know about it. Things aren't getting any better. See, animal diseases: Kütahya, chap disease in Ardahan, blue language disease in Ragla, Antwerp, Mersin, Adana, Osmaniye, and brusella for three days. An illegal animal enters from Syria, and in this way the disease enters; no control, no rights. These are major problems of agriculture in Turkey. Look, the manufacturer's a mess. Manufacturer, before you -- I have friends here of farmer's origin -- the truck would buy fertilizer, and now it's buying weight. He used to buy gas for his farm in pre-season tankers. Send 3 tons, 5 tons, 10 tons of diesel. Now he drives his tractor to oil, 10 liters, 15 liters, buys whatever he can afford. Young people in villages, single girls. Now the peasant can't marry his daughter, his son. Look, go to the villages, full of single boys, full of single girls. Now, we have to find a cure; Turkish agriculture is getting worse. I say we support the motion from the National Movement Party, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0055par0543	Thank you, Mr. Chosen. Second speaker, Van MP Nazmi Gür on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Gür.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0056par0547	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, honored MPs, I will speak for my group on the motion. The goal here is to criticize and criticize the government's policies of agriculture and animalism, and hopefully our Minister will take some serious notes from this talk and act as soon as possible. Of course, the gene is one of the most important control mechanisms the House has, one of the ways the opposition manages the work of power, not unnecessary. It's always a necessary mechanism, every step of the way. Therefore, we will share with Parliament the views of my group on this genotype -- in terms of trade policies, in terms of animalism policies -- and in terms of issues in which our people are having problems. Dear friends, it's always said, it's always known that Turkey is an agricultural country. That, of course, speaks of an important contradiction. On the one hand, it's a country that wants to grow, it's a country that wants to improve, it's an agricultural country on the other hand; it's a population that lives in cities; on the other hand, it's a population parite that lives in the country and in rural life; on the other hand, it's an approach to what we call very much development. Of course, as we evaluate all of this, we will still address our criticism, our thoughts, especially when we bring up the fundamental issues of our country's -- which are on the rise -- of Turkey -- of agriculture and animalism. Of course, dear friends, all over the world, agriculture, agricultural production are facing serious crises, serious problems. Not only in our country, but in many countries around the world, especially in developed countries, there are serious problems. One of the most important problems is that agriculture, which is made with mechanization, serves industrial agriculture in order to improve the efficiency of this agriculture, and a large part of the agricultural field, in order to feed the human population in the name of ecofut. I hope our ministry in particular will pay attention to these matters in our country. The priority is to feed and feed our people, not to supply the industry with raw materials. That's what we want our land to be used for. Of course, Turkey is an agricultural country. Its determination also represents a reality, which is that at one time all our products were self-contained, when we imported very little agricultural products from the outside, politicians used to say: "Here, we are agriculture countries." We're one of the rarest countries capable of self-sustaining. In this way, we as a country serve agriculture, agriculture development. These policies were always called this, but on the other hand, there was a major contradiction, an industrialised country, an urbanized country, an agricultural land, and a contradiction to urbanization. If Turkey is truly to continue its existence as an agricultural country or understands the importance of agriculture, it must first prevent agricultural areas from being pursued by the plundering of agriculture, industrial institutions under the name of industrialisation, and eventually by the name of urbanization, urban transformation, our agricultural land. Dear friends, of course, our population is improving. The population of 40-50 million people in the past has reached 74-75 million today. The healthy diet of this population is one of the main tasks of governments to meet the needs of this population with agricultural products and especially agricultural products. This is primarily the protection of the soil, the proper and proper construction of agricultural planning, and also the healthy supervision of the agricultural production, animal rights of the workers, and the part of the product that they have acquired until they reach the market. It is very clear, dear friends, that at the moment over 8 million people are working in agricultural areas, but while the population is working, all kinds of health and social rights continue to function without them. Dear friends, of course, the farmland is extremely important to us. In a country where erosion is intense, forests, forestry is destroyed, it is particularly important to protect the soil. I won't lose a piece of my land, I won't lose a pebble, I won't be protected by the words of the eunuch. Erosion is a very important problem for the preservation of farmland. Look, in recent years, there have been less than 2.5 billion hectares in particular, in order to narrow down agricultural areas. There are many reasons for that. One of the reasons, as I said, is that the industry is deforestation, the unhealthy urbanization, the loss of land, eventually the destruction of forest and agricultural land in part. Dear friends, agriculture is unfortunately one of the most unstable sectors, one of the most important sectors in need of protection. While Turkey is a self-sufficient country in agriculture, it has now become a country that imports both agricultural and animal products from the outside. In 2011, imports of agricultural products reached the record level of republican history, dear friends. The most agricultural and animal imports in the Republic period were in 2011. Of course, it is already clear that 2012 will overcome that record. Again, dear friends, especially in corn, 8 million tons of imports have been paid $1.5 billion. It's important to stress that this corn is also GMO, dear friends. Again, imports have been involved in cotton. Again, there have been significant increases in imports of fatty seeds and derivatives. It is also important to stress that all of this is GMO. Dear friends, there is another addition to the agricultural products we import, which is hay. As you know earlier, the burning of memories in the field was widely used in Turkey, and is still widely used. But now the farmer can't find the straw to burn. Thus, for the first time in history, Turkey may have imported hay as animal bait. Dear friends, of course, we boast that Turkey is the world's 17th largest economy. But on the other hand, we are all witnesses to the fact that the agricultural sector, which has a significant contribution to this 17th largest economy, is almost unclaimed, and how these problems in the agricultural sector remain unresolved. I'd like to give you a few numbers, dear friends. In 2000, there were 7.8 million farmers who lived on agriculture, and in 2010, this went down to 6.1 million. Of course, on one hand, we might be able to cause urbanization, from village to city, but the main problem is that agricultural production, agriculture, and our people who are concerned about living, are no longer able to farm. Again, dear friends, in 2000 the share of agriculture in employment was 36 per cent, while in 2012 it was 25.5 per cent. And maybe you can make that fall as progress or economic growth in the industry, but, dear friends, a significant point of this decline is to create a cheap and uninstructed labor force in the industry by reducing agricultural areas. This is also remarkable in this respect. Again, dear friends, we see our people living in the countryside, the farmer, the villager, as policies created to make it a cheap labor force in the metropolitan area. Agricultural production today tends to be very high on the monopoly of large companies. We all know that in the GAP area, waterable areas with Ataturk Dam are being pursued by large corporations, international companies, plantations. Again, dear friends, I'd like to give you a little number about sugar beets, especially one of the most important agricultural products. The production of 22 million tons in sugar beets has dropped to 16 million tons. This, in particular, leads farmers, who farm sugar beets, to break down from this branch of production, to either leave the land or migrate to the city to seek bread. Dear friends, especially in the region, producers in Mush, Ağrı, Bingöl, Bitlis, Bitlis, and sugar beets producers sell the weight of their production at 152 cents in extremely difficult conditions. Sugar beets weigh 152 cents a pound. You all know how high the price of diesel and fertilizer is. Especially in 2002, in Turkey, the wheat was 30 cents, the diesel was 1 lira, dear friends. A manufacturer who sells 3.5 kilos of wheat could buy a liter of diesel that day. Today, diesel is $4, wheat is 60 cents. I have to sell 7 kilograms of wheat to buy 1 liter of diesel, my manufacturer. Dear friends, on this side, the AKP has handed over the government to the farmer with agricultural and animal policy. Today, the difference between manufacturer prices and market prices has reached 400 per cent. That is indeed unfair. So an agricultural or animal product produced by the farmer causes an increase of almost 400 times as much to us, until we reach consumers. This is the most important proof of how large the interest is and how AKP's policies in this area actually serve these Rants. I'd like to give you a few numbers as a product group: this is 498 percent of the age of vegetables and fruit, 286% of the dried products, 252% of the groceries, 199 percent of the rice and 206% of the animal products. So we're using up our farmer's hand labor, eye shine, the product produced by the sweat of the forehead, with huge differences that reach 300 times, 400 times, and 500 times as much as we consume it in the market. Dear friends, no serious steps have been taken as part of agricultural reform or land reform, and our farmer is left with his fate. Again, it's good to give a few numbers. At the point of 30 years of animal policy, the number of cattle, 16.5 million in the 1980s -- so this year -- has dropped to 10 million -- my dear friends; the number of sheep is 50 million, and the number of small animals has dropped to 25 million. Again, Turkey's population has increased, of course. The population of Turkey, which rose from 44 million to 74 million, of course, as the population rose from one side to the other, as agricultural production fell, of course you would make Turkey dependent on the outside, and of course you would have to import Turkish meat, milk and other agricultural products. Dear friends, Turkey, who boasted as a country of agriculture, unfortunately had to provide most of our people's meat supplies from America, Australia, and even Chile. Again, dear friends, it's very remarkable that our people have brought in and released this meat, especially when it's important to bring in an idiot in the red meat consumption of our people. Dear friends, because the farmer is no longer able to get along, he has started sending dairy animals to the slaughter homes. Again, there are serious problems with precious friends, age, vegetables, and fruit. It is important to stress that most of this is imported from the outside of our country. In our provinces, such as Van, Hakkari, Şırnak, Ağrı, Kars, who have the potential for animalism in the region, especially for security reasons, we all know that their victims are severely victimized and have increased daily. Dear friends, valued lawmakers; of course, the policies that gradually narrow down this area of agriculture and livestock, destroying Turkey, making Turkey dependent on the outside, show itself in other areas. In particular, during the last week, the Prime Minister's re-opening of the execution, discussing the execution in Turkey, and the fact that we've been waiting at his door for the European Union, both the Council of Europe, and the principles of the United Nations, which we want to be founders of, have been very unfortunate in terms of international contracts. In fact, the government's approach to this issue, the Prime Minister's approach, as well as Turkey's public opinion and international public opinion. Bringing the execution doesn't solve problems in Turkey; bringing the execution brings Turkey back. If the AKP and Prime Minister want to take Turkey into the middle of the Middle Ages, they will no doubt see us as Turkey's democratic forces. Again, dear friends, especially Mr. Prime Minister, at today's group meeting, there have been very unfortunate statements. He expressed the heart of both our party and hundreds of our friends in prison who are on hunger strike, and the hearts of the people who are dying for a hunger strike, in a very hurtful, extremely hateful speech of people. It's not the Prime Minister's responsibility, it's the Prime Minister's responsibility to stop these deaths, to address these problems. As a party at all times and on each platform, we have repeatedly said that we, BDP, are ready to put our hands and our bodies under the stone, not to solve problems. We have always expressed on every platform that the hunger strikes in prisons will end with the fulfilment of democratic rights, legitimate rights and demands. But it's Mr. Prime Minister who closes the door, who imposes unresolvedness on the issue, who plays with human life. Once again, as a member of parliament, I call upon the Prime Minister: it is up to you to stop these deaths, and it is up to you to end this hunger strike. The isolation you maintain in the Imralı is an illegal isolation, an illegal isolation, an inhuman isolation. It's irresponsible of you to ignore the legitimate demands, the right demands, the legal demands of the hunger strike. Mr. Prime Minister, we invite you and your government once again to be responsible, and once again, we invite you to a solution. Our party will take any step you make to resolve it, take it, care it, care it. With these feelings, I salute the General Assembly, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0057par0583	Thank you, Mr. Gür. The third speaker for the groups is Adana MP Ali Halaman on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Halaman, come in. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0058par0588	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion for the geneorization of our group regarding the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, who has failed to fulfill their duties by putting agricultural producers in distress. I salute you all on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. We're going to talk about the last ten years of agriculture here today. Agriculture is as important to the country as it is to humanity. A significant part of our country deals with agriculture, most of it works in agriculture. Therefore, it is not right to assess the agricultural sector at the point of economic profit and loss alone. Knowing that agriculture's importance is indispensable to all mankind, all developed countries today view agricultural sectors with a social, economic perspective. In the last ten years of AKP ruling, agriculture's non-national product has fallen, our agricultural exports have been unable to cover our agricultural imports; the farms that have been planted and harvested have decreased, the land has been abandoned, the agriculture has accelerated, the number of workers in agriculture has fallen, our villages have been emptied, our farmers' income has been reduced, and the village's income has been reduced every day. The government condemned the agricultural community to poverty, despair. The people expressed in the agricultural sector lost their jobs, was cut off from agriculture and fled from the countryside to the city, bringing burdens to the state budget as well. Agricultural input prices are overextended, and our farmers can't buy fertilizer, they can't process their land enough. No measures have been developed to prevent overprice increases in fertilizer, pesticides, bait and fuel. During the three-year period of power, the National Movement Party has done this in agriculture, while the AKP government has failed to carry on in ten years: 1) A serious restructuring programme has been implemented in agriculture. 2) The Farmer Recording System Project and our farmers have been registered. 3) Direct support payments have been made. Although it was the first time in Turkish agriculture, it was a successful practice that allowed the small farmer to breathe through direct income support, which our farmers called tar and money. 4) Like cotton, sunflower, soy, colza, fatty seeds and olive oil bonuses were always supported as bonuses. 5) Turkey's most important natural potential and the indiscriminate nature of its animalism, the study of the mera detection, the process of compensation and rehabilitation, was initiated, and successful practices were accelerated. 6) Our country's animal presence was being recorded with a species and registration system project, and all the cattle were being earmarked. 7) An effective fight against animal disease, the quality of the vaccines produced by the state had been improved -- drug campaigns -- has been eliminated. 8) Animalism was effectively supported, the Genocide Project was introduced, and its nutritionism was supported separately. 9) In the import of agricultural products, our farmers have been arranged in favor of our farmers, and our farmers have always been protected. 10) Successful steps have been taken for agricultural-integration cooperation and agricultural-integration integration, effective intervention by the Office of Earth's Mahulses, and the grain markets have been rescheduled, the farmer's product has been paid, and the market's price of wheat has been kept under the price of the Office of Earth Mahulses. 12) The alternative product project, the detection project of troubled agricultural areas, the detection of optimum business sizes in the cities and regions, the development of animal races, the integration of inputs in agriculture, was first introduced to the agenda, shared with society, prepared and implemented for the most part. Trafficking has been successfully fought, animal trafficking has been stopped, and agricultural products have been removed from the border trade. During the National Movement Party, there was a successful fight against animal trafficking, and during today's government, smuggling has been opened up. A few days ago, media reports caught a truckload of small animals... in and around Gaziantep Province and Syria. Every day, thousands of sheep come from the Syrian border to the provinces of Şanlıurfa, Gaziantep, Hatay, the sheep come illegally, selling for very low prices, the market for livestock is broken. And because of these imported animals in the Çukurova region, animal diseases, which we call disease for three days, destroy the animals of our country. I would like to ask all of my fellow lawmakers under the roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly to set up an agricultural commission to prevent this animal trafficking and find a way to prevent this animalism. As the National Movement Party, we never took the problems of our farmers out of our minds and our agendas. We've been there and behind every attempt in their favor. From now on, millions of agricultural sectors will continue to support our employees, and their every problem will be our primary mission. In the past decade, sectors have become unable to pay off their debts, and farmers are now waiting in bank credit lines just to meet their needs, trying to negotiate their economic life by trying to mortgage their fields, by trying to sell the field team. The problems in the agriculture area, where operations are rapidly increasing, where bankruptcys are breathless, are growing like an avalanche, while the government and the Minister remain insensitive. The people in the agriculture area, which is about a third of the population, have been handed over by agricultural loans and banks. The price of the animal is determined by Iran and the Middle East, the price of the wheat is determined by Argentina, the price of the narcissist is determined by Russia, Ukraine and Iraq. In the last ten years, our farmers have been in a difficult position... that, when the AKP comes to power, the wheat manufacturer who sells 3 kilos of wheat buys 1 litre of diesel, and today buys 1 litre of diesel that sells 7 kilos of wheat. Narcissian gardens aren't doing well. Yesterday, the farmer worked hard to plant the citrus garden, every year to make the garden, but today the garden lost its charm yesterday, because its input prices were high. In Giresun, the nuts, and the tea makers in Rize, closed the roads, and scattered the nuts on the roads. In Nevşehir, electricity, potatoes, onion manufacturers who could not pay their loans, blocked the road and rebelled. In Mersin, Bolu, Antalya, farmers who couldn't even sell the product they worked for, they rebelled against the Minister of Agriculture by putting their products on the road because of the low market - cucumber, tomato, eggplant, and pepper -- written and visual media -- again; we gave them these genes from them; their pictures were here all the time. The agricultural sector is a vital sector for our country. Why is it important? Because about half of our people live in rural areas, more than half live directly and indirectly on agriculture. Agriculture is still an important market for the manufacturing industry, energy, transport and service sector. Half of our industry provides entry from agriculture. The most important element of domestic trade is agricultural trade. Ten percent of our exports are agricultural products. Despite problems in the agricultural sector, the industry continues to produce for the needs of food and clothing of our people. These titles are the most fundamental issues in maintaining social balances and maintaining development in a country. In the ten-year period of AKP power, we'll stop promising the farmer before the elections, we'll remove the quota, everyone will plant whatever they want on their land. But you're in power, not in sugar, tobacco, and beets, but you've raised the quota, forbidden the hash. You wiped out the basic corporate personality of the peasant and the farmer, and you destroyed it. In the process of bidding, Adana Imamoglu Yedgöze Dam, agricultural dam... you have dulled the islanders' thirty-year dreams, you have delivered them to the Anthepli Sanko. You shut down the Departments of State Water and sold out. You've turned agricultural irrigation troops into trade unions. You destroyed direct income support. You said, "We'll support you on the product." In eight or nine months, you've made it a bureaucratic institution that collects files at the Agricultural County and County Offices. You've turned the Agricultural Bank into commercial banks. And ye have shut off the great TELEM, and are about to close it, and will ye sell it to the children of Israel? Again, you shut down the FISKOBIRLIK, which seems to have worked for agriculture for thirty years, 40 years, and is considered an agricultural enterprise; you reduced it; you reduced it; you reduced it; you reduced it; you reduced IT; you destroyed IT, and you destroyed IT. You've sold the existing Samsunn Nitrot Industries, you've shut down the Elazýg Fertilizer Factory, you've shut down the Izmit, you've reduced the Fertilizer Factory to the Kütah, you've destroyed it, you've destroyed it. So you delivered the fertilizer to a few traders, to a loan shark. Today, fertilizer is sometimes said to be absent, sometimes sold at a high price. You've closed the land crop office in half, you've rented the place, you're a warehouser or you're renting half of it. You've shut down weather stations on agriculture in many places. You destroyed the Village Services, delivered the farmer to floods and raids. You shut down the corn dryers, destroyed the agricultural utilities. And in Adana, and in Samsun, and in Sinop, and in Kastamon, and in Corrum, and in Hatay, and in Kahramanmarash, and in Thrace, and in the fields of rice, and in the fields of rice, and in the midst of them ye have destroyed, and delivered their imports unto the merchants. You didn't take care of these manufacturers. You still haven't paid the bonus for 2011, especially in Adana, Hatay, Mersin, and many of our provinces. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, agriculture has fallen, unemployment has increased. Local businesses in all sectors, mainly agriculture, have been taken over by banks and insurance companies, and they have handed over the loan shark to global forces. You are looking for new markets to be sold to provide financial resources for the solution to economic problems. He is a rural person who earns less than national income and earns a living from agriculture. The problems of agriculture are not solved, so they've come to the suburbs of the city. They're in line of work to get a job, and in the evening, they go to the relief tents. In the livestock industry, livestock has become difficult as meat and animal imports from abroad come, food and hay prices rise. For the first time in our recent history, the stem has been imported. You have forbidden to raise animals in the mujavir area by saying that the European Union wants it, and instead you have not established organized agriculture and livestock areas. That's what you needed the people who gave him two or three cows for a living. We'll become a government, we'll get to work, we'll find a solution to the farmer's problems. What have you done for ten years as a government in agriculture, in livestock? You've finished the lifeblood of this country, the farmer, the peasant, the feeder. For a hundred and fifty years, you have occupied the watery, dry land of our farmer's land. You have taken it from him, saying, "You have sold it." With your new law, we destroyed the peasant, the farmer, and made you from the city. Let the earth feed your eyes. Since the Turkish farmer who has been scolded is no longer able to bear it, he expects your conscientious support for the minister of agriculture, which has brought the agriculture and livestock industry to its end.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0059par0629	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. On behalf of the groups, the last speaker is Adıyaman MP Mehmet Erdogan on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Mr. Erdogan, please.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0060par0633	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group regarding the motion that the MHP Group has made on the Minister of Food, Agriculture, Animalism, Mr. Mehdi Eker. On this occasion, I salute you. Dear lawmakers, this nation has an experience that will know very well what is in favour of Turkey. I don't tell you to remember the interest rates of 7,500 per night, the three-digit inflation figures, the bankrupt banks, hundreds of billions of dollars being siphoned. They've spent years in this country on a purse. There was an order that said, "The sea is the property of the state." And that was the end of the sea.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0061par0635	It's a government property Lighthouse now.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0060par0636	All those crises in the past showed that the sea was over, that the government ship had landed on land. So, just as this ship was about to land, this saint nation made a historic decision, saying to the AK PARTY, Al, this ship is a hundred.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0062par0637	You're taking the ship to the Lighthouse!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0060par0638	After 2002, the Turkish ship began to glide like a bride. This ship has been on a great journey, and despite its remarkable achievements, its path and journey are not over. So, today we're going to talk about our achievements in agriculture, change and transformation. With this gene, we have the opportunity to share our work with you once again, with our beloved nation.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0062par0639	It's called the ship, and it's headed for the Lighthouse!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0060par0640	When we came to power, there was a Turkish agriculture and a farmer described as a black hole in the economy, but now there is a government in Turkey that sees the truth, understands its people well, values production. We saw the Turkish farmer as an indispensable actor in our economy. The Turkish farmer is the best of the economy. We owe these people a debt of heart, and we are determined and determined to pay it.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0062par0642	When will you pay for the farmer's harvest? It's been ten years.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0060par0643	We shouldn't have the luxury of taking populist approaches in determining and implementing agricultural policies, putting political interests ahead of the country's interests. We must pay well for every penny, and we must never neglect to see the full picture when we do the math. We have seen many, dear friends; I give twice as much as he gives. We have seen many who say, "I will not sit on the mud." We have seen many who say, "If I give, I give." So, we're here to set these balances straight, to set these balances on solid ground.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0062par0645	Take your mother. We also saw those who said, "Let the earth feed your eyes."
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0060par0646	Mr. President, lawmakers, the crises have passed like a cylinder over a Turkish farmer. When we came to power, we erased the $1.5 billion debt from 765,000 farmers who were in the foreclosure clamp, and we were able to pay $1.2 billion in three years.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0062par0647	Where? Did you give it to him from the treasure, Mr. Mehmet?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0060par0648	If you listen, I'll tell you, be patient.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0063par0649	I thought you weren't a populist.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0060par0650	Dear friends, in whose time did 765 thousand farmers become unable to pay off those small sums of loans? Inflation is 45 per cent, agriculture is 59 per cent, agricultural loan is 69 per cent.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0064par0651	Why don't you go to the executive offices?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0060par0652	Today, those of you who are from agriculture, those who need to look back, they need to think about the texts that have their signature under them. What are they?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0653	Are there any peasants who don't owe the bank money? I'm coming, be patient. Look at the letter of intent dated December 9, 1999, turn to the letters of intent dated December 18, 2000, and see what commitments were made there. 15 laws in 15 days didn't come out of this House? Now, I'm asking you: who was it that day that said grain prices, sugar beets prices, tobacco prices, the amount that was promised in that letter, in such a way that they wouldn't pass?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0066par0656	The farmer's looking for those days, the farmer's looking for those days.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0657	Under the name of reform in agriculture, the saint farmers of this country have been given a poison, dear friends, but this nation has not forgotten them. The promise that loan subsidies would be removed, direct income support instead of indirect support, commitments, commitments, all of which were included in the IMF's letters of intent. September 21, 2001, whose period is it? It's you again. What does Official Paper 24530 say? We've removed the chemical fertilizer support used in my field. 31/12/2001, again in the Official Gazette, number 5254: "We have lifted the law on loaning seed to needy farmers." What is it, dear friends? The farmer, of course, faces disaster, has a problem, doesn't have insurance, needs, says to the government: "Be supportive."
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0067par0660	Why didn't you bring it? Why did you need it? Why didn't you bring it?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0068par0661	Why haven't you done it in ten years, ten years? Why haven't you done it in ten years, Mr. Mehmet? Someone holding your hand, why haven't you done it in ten years?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0662	The Anasol-M power at the time is removing seed support. On whose orders? The removal of fertilizer support, the removal of the loan interest subsidies, the Land Products Office's commitments that the price support will be removed -- all of which will be replaced by direct income support -- all of which are written in IMF letters of intent. The people called it the tar and his money. It had nothing to do with produce, production, efficiency. Well, friends, this happened during your time. That's what you're going to do, now, you're going to get up and say something about agricultural politics!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0067par0663	The farmer's been looking a lot for those days, a lot!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0664	Those who speak recklessly to come to power, those who promise what is behind the camp, those who justify every path, when they look in the mirror, their faces don't turn red.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0069par0665	That's enough, come back to our era!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0666	But those who are embarrassed in the public mirror will continue to be mortified as long as they continue to do so.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0070par0668	Let's go to the farmer, wherever you want to go!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0669	For years, we've been a country of agriculture. We need to ask those who have been distracting us by saying, "Where is the law of agriculture of the Republic?" Where was the seeding law? Where was our agricultural products insurance that would save our farmers from being victimized? As a result of the EC PARTY's will and determination to resolve problems, we have reached an important point in Turkish agriculture today. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0071par0671	Mr. Erdogan, this photo was taken during your time!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0672	We're saying what you did.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0071par0673	There's no point in talking about the past! This photo was taken yesterday, yesterday!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0674	Now, by the will of God, I will speak of what was done in our time. This is our beloved nation...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0072par0675	You've been on the job for ten years, in a state of...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0676	We're going to share with our people what the AK PARTY has done in its power.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0073par0678	He doesn't look this way when it suits him!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0072par0679	Look, look at this photo!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0680	Agriculture is the head of the most important sectors in our country's economy and social structure.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0073par0681	Mr. Mehmet, you don't look this way when it doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0682	It's an important sector based on strategic and competitive... Who brought the Anguss, who brought the idiots? With decisive policies and support, we have made significant contributions to our economy over the last decade.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0074par0685	Mr. Erdogan, look, this is the result!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0686	The agricultural sector was discussed not by such dreams, but by strategic plans, not by envy, not by ignoring problems, but by solving them.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0074par0687	Answer this photo, Mr. Erdogan!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0075par0688	Mr. Mehmet, take a look, for God's sake!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0689	25 per cent of our country's population is in this sector.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0075par0690	Mr. Mehmet, for God's sake, we're showing pictures!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0691	Our national income in agriculture is 8 per cent of our interest in exports is 11 per cent.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0076par0692	Over here, over here!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0693	We are among the top five countries in the world in exporting more than 20 main agricultural products.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0077par0694	Mehmet Erdogan, look at this, look at this photo! It's a picture of your period!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0695	Agriculture is one of the most negatively populism areas on it. We are witnessing significant improvements in this sector during the EC PARTY period. Dear friends, with support, the growing agricultural sector's contribution to national income increased by more than 3 times, from $36 billion in 2002 to $103.6 billion in 2011.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0077par0698	That's my boy! Why is the farmer spilling this cucumber?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0699	With new projects and support for the sector, the agricultural sector has grown to the most stable period of half a century in the last 7 years. We are a country exporting 1.536 agricultural products to 186 countries. With an agriculturally illegitimate domestic product reaching $62 billion...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0078par0700	Tell me about the imports, the imports!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0701	... Our country is ranked 7th in the world, ranking 1st in Europe.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0079par0702	It's the farmer, the farmer! "Why didn't you pay the 2011 bonus?" He says he's calling from Sungurlu.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0703	The average agricultural growth of 27 countries in the European Union was 0.9 per cent, while the average growth of agriculture was 2.1 per cent during the same period in our country.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0079par0704	Pay the farmer's premiums!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0705	How much land has foreign banks seized from the farmer? Our exports of agricultural products went from $4 billion to $15.3 billion. Our exports are over $4 billion,317 million. So Turkey is now a net exporter country in agriculture.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0080par0707	Angus is imported, straw imported, weed imported, you're still talking!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0708	Agriculture as strategic sectors... It's your art, it's your art. You've cheated these people for years. People have taught you a lesson, but you can't change your tune. (MHP rows) Look in the mirror, you'll see yourself. We passed 14 fundamental laws, including the Agricultural Law.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0081par0710	Erdogan, look at this photo, this photo.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0082par0711	That's how all these Erdogans deceive people, I guess that's what the Erdogans have in common!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0712	Dear friends, in 2002, we reduced agricultural interest rates of 59 percent over the years. In 2012, interest rates were applied between 0 and 7.5%. The total loan, which was used by the Agriculture Bank and its agricultural loan co-ops, reached $529m in 2002, reaching 22.3 billion in 2011.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0083par0713	You brought a cow for $7 billion, you can't sell it for $2 billion... You've made your followers rich, you're talking out loud!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0714	Dear lawmakers, you will lend at 59 percent interest, and then your bank will lose it. What's his name gonna be? There'll be damage to the mission.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0083par0715	What about the cows brought in with zero interest, Erdogan?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0716	What's his period? There'll be anal-M...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0083par0717	What about the cows you brought with zero interest, the ones you ripped off? They're all sick, he can't sell them. Make your followers rich, then come and play politics here.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0718	But today we're lending between zero and 7.5%, and Agriculture Bank is profiting because the AK PARTI is cut off, the fugitives are closed.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0084par0719	The precaution didn't work, the patient died. The farmer's dead. I don't want the farmer to...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0083par0720	The hoses turned into pipes. It's going as a pipe to the allies now, the resources of the state.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0721	That's what you're crying about. The agricultural loan return rate was 38 per cent in 2002, while 38 per cent of the loans you gave on that day are returning. You gave me $500 million in loans, but today you're going to give me 22 billion dollars and 22 quadrillion credits in the AK PARTI administration as of 2011, and 99 percent will come back. You didn't leave the village, you didn't leave the villagers, you didn't leave the farm.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0085par0723	Why do people borrow money? He borrows because he can't afford it.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0724	In 2002, $1.8 billion was given agricultural support, while at the end of 2012 it reached 7.7 billion TL. A friend of ours says: "You never update your conversations about my organization, you say $1.8 billion in support in 2002.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0086par0725	How much is the diesel?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0087par0726	May the earth feed your eyes...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0727	The opposition isn't changing itself, the opposition's case about power, about walking to power, about worrying about people's problems, has no idea. All they care about is insults, envy, hostility. In the last week, unfortunately, we've been able to get a closer look at them.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0088par0728	Mr. Mehmet, you're a populist, you're playing for the bleachers.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0729	In our ten-year rule, we've given over 50.7 billion agricultural support. We are a humble servant of this nation.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0088par0730	It's not your turn, Mehmet. It's not your turn.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0731	You say what you don't have. It's the first time he's given our farmers the power of the AK PARTY. The AK PARTI government was the one who continued to support chemical fertilizer. Who sells the most expensive diesel to farmers? In 2002, only 83 million liras of livestock were given, while in 2011, $1.7 billion was given, and in 2012 we support $2.2 billion.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0089par0735	How much did you get from the farmer over the diesel? Tell me the tax you got on the diesel, the tax you got on the diesel! Drop the backup!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0736	The total share of animalism is 4.4 per cent in 2002, 28.5 per cent in support of the EC PARTY ruling. We supported a total of $9.5 billion animalism in ten years of AK PARTY power. We've taken livestock as a zero interest loan. From August 1, 2010 to the end of October 2012, we had 170,000 manufacturers use 6.7 billion non-interest loans. We've raised the number of products given bonus support from 4 to 17. That's what we call a difference payment. It was a structure designed to pay the manufacturer the difference between the cost of production and the price. How much was the prim support, these fat seeds, and so forth, in 2002? $186 million.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0090par0739	Half of it goes into the pockets of thieves, Erdogan! Don't you read about it in the papers?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0740	$2.2 billion as of October 2012. During 2003-2012, our total bonus support was $15.2 billion.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0091par0741	How much tax did you get from the farmer over the diesel? Drop the backup!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0090par0742	Don't you know that the biggest corruption is in support? Tell me all about it!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0743	According to efficiency, 30 agricultural basins have been identified.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0092par0744	Baim, explain the fertilizer prices, Mr. Mehmet! Compare 2002 with 2012!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0745	In which region in Turkey, how to get the best yield from which product, these have been measured, and agriculture's power has been increased further.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0092par0746	Explain the number of animals, where have you brought them in ten years!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0747	Agricultural insurance policy against natural disasters has been launched that protects the farmer's labor. Our government also covers 50 per cent of the agricultural insurance policy. The rural development move has been initiated. For the first time, entrepreneurs who have established agricultural industrial facilities such as the processing, storage, packaging of agricultural products have been given 50% grant.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0092par0749	What happened to tobacco in Adıyaman? Don't tell me anything else, tell me what happened to tobacco in your own country! Is there any tobacco left?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0750	For the first time, our farmer's savings, increased production, drips and rainwatering systems were provided with zero interest loans and 50% grants. More than 2,000 agricultural development co-ops, plant and animal production facilities were given a total of $2.1 billion low-interest loans for farmers to combine and produce efficiently. Compounding efforts against the land-small and disintegration problem have been accelerated. By 2002, there were only 450,000 hectares of land collected, while over 3 billion hectares were finished in ten years.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0093par0753	The people of Adıyaman ask me, and they say, "Ask me what happened to our tobacco?" Look, Adıyaman is making a phone call to me, and tell this priest to tell him about the tobacco in his hometown.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0754	My brother, Adıyaman, gave me a slap in the face with an increase in every election. You keep your voice up, people, we're looking at what they're saying.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0094par0756	Everyone's on the phone!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0093par0757	On the phone, he says, "Mr. Mehmet, what happened to tobacco in Adıyaman?"
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0758	Our food legislation has been harmonised with the EU. A structure was created from field to table, where all processes were processed and controlled. We've made the largest certified seed use in the history of the Republic. We started selling prescription pesticides. We supported domestic seedling. This is really, really important, dear friends. In 2002, the use of native hybrid vegetable seeds reached 50 percent from 10 per cent to 50 per cent. Our seed exports have increased by 540 percent. We opened the world's third largest plant gene bank. The water is covered in support of products. The Thracian has been transformed into an ari area from the smack disease. In the livestock industry, reforms and bait plants were considered important in order to meet the need for brute bait.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0095par0761	We're importing imported hay, talk about it.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0762	We have 28 and a half million tons of hay, imported 460 tons.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0095par0763	Hay, hay! Then why did you bring it?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0764	Speak up! You don't know what you're saying!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0095par0765	You didn't even leave grass, you didn't even leave hay in the country!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0766	Our supports for livestock, our milk powder supports are encouraged to the contrary; the manufacturer, as protected by the application of price, is covered from the internal market by our industrialist, the world price of milk from the equivalent price.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0095par0767	Why don't you hand out milk in schools? What happened to the project?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0768	During the 2009-2012 period, 33,000 tonnes of milk powder were produced, and 141 million dollars of milk powder was supported.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0095par0769	I guess your followers didn't get much milk!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0770	Dear lawmakers, these supports are free of charge.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0096par0771	Yes!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0772	These are not the only supports given to the agricultural sector.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0097par0773	What about the milk project, Mr. Mehmet, the milk project?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0774	Other than that, land collection studies...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0097par0775	Why did it stop in a month? What happened?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0776	...supports through commercial product purchases, investments by State Water Affairs for irrigation, subsidies of agricultural loans, support for exports of agricultural products; that's $14 billion,95 million when we add them up. This corresponds to 1 trillion 208 billion dollars, 1.09 percent when we divide it into illegal domestic product.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0098par0777	Tell me, tell me!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0778	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I've read the gene. And there's a part of this genome that says: "Our village, our farmer, is miserable. " I've talked about what was done in their time, what was done in the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0098par0779	This is the end of the EC PARTY period, Mr. Erdogan! Look at this picture!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0780	Yes, it's a real mess, but it's not the miserable situation of the manufacturer, it's the disgrace of the opposition's reputation with the nation.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0098par0782	That's my boy!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0099par0783	Can you go and visit the villagers in your own country?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0784	The World Bank is writing the ranking of Turkey. You're in the seventh place in the world, and Turkey is number 1 in the European Union. Who says that? The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) talks about Turkey's success in agriculture. That's what he's talking about.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0100par0785	Let's go back to your hometown and ride with the farmer!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0101par0786	They won't let you in, Mr. Mehmet!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0787	The opposition's eyes are closed, he can't see, he doesn't know.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0102par0788	He sees...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0789	He can't hear with his ears closed. You can't close your eyes at night. He who closes his eyes makes himself a night.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0102par0790	We see this, we see this picture.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0791	That's part of what we did in the AK PARTY, but we have more to do. Dear friends, we haven't said anything we can't do. But we didn't forget what we said in our time of power, we did, because we promised our citizens, our beloved nation...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0103par0793	Did you or did you not say that we will remove the tax from the mazot? Is that what the Prime Minister says or isn't it?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0794	We said, "What are we to be deceived, what are we to be deceived?"
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0103par0795	Did you fulfill the Prime Minister's promise? Didn't he say in 2002, "We'll remove taxes from Mazot?"
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0065par0796	Dear lawmakers, the gene question is a serious mechanism. Governments shake with their youth. But the opposition is competing with itself. It says, "Your problem exceeds my problem." They want to play yeast in the lake with the foundation of Dursun. They come to the edge of the lake. The foundation says: "Who are we going to sell all this yogurt to?" I'm afraid that's what you're going through. Don't insult Nasrettin Hodja! I say we will vote for the watered-down gene, and I greet you with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0104par0802	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0105par0803	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0104par0804	Now it's your government's turn. Mr. Mehdi Eker...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0105par0806	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0104par0807	Wait a second... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0105par0809	Mr. Congressman has given me a good summation of agriculture, livestock, the farmer's condition, and I've learned a lot from him. I just couldn't figure out if it was a Turkish farmer or an American farmer or a New Zealand or a Netherlands. I'd be happy if he could explain to her the name of the country.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0104par0810	Thank you, it's contained.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0106par0811	The Minister will now explain.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0104par0812	Mr. Mehmet Mehdi Eker, our Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting. Mr. Secretary, please come in, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes. Mr. President, members of the High Council, I salute you all. We're dealing with another generator, a new one.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0107par0818	As long as it's you, we're fine with it! GIDE, AGREEMENT AND ANIMALITY IS A GEHMEDI MEHMEDI EKER (Secondly) GlDA, A baseless, unrealistic, and, unfortunately, a non-responsive genome. A little respect! Show some respect! No argument of this gene is based on truth, knowledge, accurate statistics, and truth. It's not the Fulcrum, it's the arena. A tactical action aimed at preventing the work of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which has recently been written and drawn in the media, is not only lowering the dignity -- unfortunately -- but also a waste of resources in the Parliament by actually trying to block the work of the Grand National Assembly in vain. In fact, I think it's probably a new interpretation of nationalism.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0108par0824	You don't understand nationalism. Say something else.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0107par0825	You wouldn't understand.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0109par0826	What do you know? What you understand is Kurdish nationalism, nothing more.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0108par0827	You can't consider this matter here. Because I asked the Parliament, I asked the Grand National Assembly of Turkey - General Secretariat - I said, "Turkey is a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0110par0829	Don't talk about things you don't know, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0111par0830	You've turned Kurdish nationalism into an execution scene, Ministry. Even that's enough for you to resign! How much does it cost for this nation to stay open one day? I mean, how much money does the Turkish National Assembly get a day's work, an extra day's work, a day's work, from the nation's budget?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0110par0832	We also asked what your ministry cost, how much does it cost if it stays one day longer? They said: 250 thousand liras a day, 250 billion liras a day, except for the employees' fees. Besides your cost, there's nothing left. The cost of an additional day of work. Now, I can't... Then let's close the coven. That's how you closed the villages, that's how you closed the cities, and that's how you shut down the House. I'll leave it to the members of our community and the valued Assembly. You come here with serious suggestions...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0112par0839	Mr. Secretary, how much does your Ministry cost, diary? How much burden do you have on Turkey's budget? You come here with serious offers. You bring in really full suggestions, you put in a file, you share them.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0113par0841	It's not your appreciation, Minister, it's not yours! And as we AK PARTIES, we've always given the greatest account to the Lord God and our nation...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0114par0843	You won't be able to give it to me anyway. We always give, we're always proud to give, we're always proud to give. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0115par0846	You made Sami search for the Strong, Sami the Strong. Now, if the MHP representatives who gave the geneorization, if they hadn't done a critical reform program known to all the world around the world in their power, I wouldn't have brought up the information of that period today if they hadn't come to this stage and said, "It's a serious reform program."
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0116par0848	You don't have any other capital. GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY SEEMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Tillen years ago) took over from MHP (Ten years ago) and also took over the debris literature...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0117par0850	At that time, the agricultural population was 35 percent; what did you reduce it to, 10 percent now. Where did these villagers go? I was just going to tell you about the improvements in the agriculture industry, as in other sectors that we've built and built, without even having to appreciate it. But his disaster and surrender as a major reform...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0118par0852	You're the most unsuccessful Minister of Agriculture in the history of the Republic. The farmer is dead, farmer! As soon as GIDE, THE AGREEMENT AND ANIMATION SEEMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (PEOPLE) tries to make a comparison with today, with the AK PARTY... The farmer's out of the mix, the phones won't stop. In the face of this excitement, it was necessary to re-introduction some information to your knowledge. It's for you to cook! Mr. President, the esteemed MPs may have a very poor memory.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0119par0858	Who of the Anguss has become rich, Mr. Secretary, explain them! How much money did you transfer from the government's pouch, from the assholes? They may have forgotten their own past. When they redo the ten-year-old AK PARTY activities, they may think they can make their own painting invisible...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0120par0860	This is your painting, Mr. Secretary. This is your painting in ten years! If everything that's going on is recorded, then the desire to forget only works on those who want to forget and people never forget it, they never forget it. He won't forget. This is your painting, Mr. Secretary, this is your painting. Because the records of the state and the memory of the nation are not as weak and weak as they think.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0121par0864	You'll see. Our nation has never failed in its sincere efforts. And those who were loyal and tender toward him, our people also dealt with him with the same loyalty and sincerity. As a matter of fact, it was one of the indicators that the EC PARTY increased the vote in each election. The whole nation knows what the party that's been doing to the country in its reign. I'm going to bring you to my valued lawmakers, with a brief tour of the state's official figures in the time tunnel, where we've taken over agriculture, how we've built and built it, where we've moved it, where we've raised it to in our ten-year power. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the revenue that agriculture has brought into this country in the reign of the MPHP. Look, I'll tell you something: $33.8 billion in GDP in 1998.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0122par0868	Don't pick apples and pears! GIDE, ACTIVITY AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (still) - MHP is taking over a $33.8 billion agricultural sector. What's he doing in three and a half years? 30% reduces that to 23.7 billion dollars. Where did we get it? We took over at $23 billion. What did we do?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0123par0870	You didn't leave hay, hay! What did the government have to do with the minister you gave the loan to? By increasing 161 percent, he raised 23.7 billion dollars to 62 billion dollars.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0124par0872	Mr. Secretary, explain the imaginary loans you distributed in Diyarbakir. Explain to me why the D.A.'s office is investigating! Now, you've reduced 30 percent, we've increased 161 percent, that's the difference between us.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0125par0875	The farmer's in jail... the farmer's in jail... answer them!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0124par0876	Answer corruption, corruption, in your time! Dear friends, in your time, according to the World Bank data... look, I have the numbers, I have the books. This is the report of the OECD (OECD); this is the Turkey's Success Report of the United Nations Food Agriculture Agency; this is the report that the International Institute for Hunger Fighting wrote the success table on Turkey; all of this is written here. It's not just us, the whole world knows about this success story.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0125par0878	Your own citizen is dying of pain, leave the world. Dear friends, now, since 2008, at this level of production, with our agricultural involuntary product, with our domestic product, we've ranked the 11th place in the world that we've taken over from MHP. In Europe, it was 4, Turkey is now number 1. That's the difference between us and you. You've taken down 30 percent of agriculture, we've increased 161 percent, and we've made it the world's seventh largest agricultural force. I guess that means giving him the gene.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0124par0880	You've tripled the national income in one night! Roll the numbers, improve the agriculture! Dear friends, in your reign, look, I'll say one more thing... What about the number of animals? Where did the animal numbers come from? GIDE, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEKER - These are all numbers, registered figures of the state. Now, between 1998 and 2002, agricultural exports dropped from $5 billion to $4 billion during the MHP administration.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0126par0884	He's lying. GIDE, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER - How much less? 20%. What did we do? We've taken over $4 billion and raised agricultural exports to $15.3 billion. Mr. Secretary, the farmer's in jail, he's in jail. Four farmers are currently under arrest in Yerköy, thanks to you. 30 farmers are in prison in Eskişehir. Look, what's the percentage increase in that? Twenty-seven percent. So you cut 20 percent, we increased 277 percent.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0127par0888	What about the diesel, Mr. Secretary, the diesel? What happened to diesel, fertilizer, bait in your reign? Explain them. Today, my dear brothers and sisters, Turkey is feeding our 75 million citizens, 31.4 million tourists, plus $3.5 billion in food supplies, foreign trade surplus. The cows you sold for $7 billion are now $2 billion. Everybody's screwed. So after so many people are fed, we export $3.5 billion in food products in this country, and Turkey comes here.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0128par0892	They put four people in jail last week in Yerköy. There's no cheese boat with empty words. We'll know the facts, the facts, the numbers. Since you're used to running the ship... talk about the ship, the ship, not the cheese boat, the ship. Now, as we've just been told here, sir, we've made great reforms in agriculture. Look, it's a letter of commitment to the World Bank of Kemal Dervis, signed under the Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of the National Movement. Look, what's been done here with this? This is English, and this is Turkish. I'll give you both of them.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0129par0896	Oh, that's nice!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0130par0897	You've read it to us before. You've been showing him there for ten years. I gave it to you, the other day you wanted it, but you didn't understand.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0131par0899	It's the only argument you've had for ten years. Look, dear friends, do you know what this letter says to the World Bank? It says: "We will remove chemical fertilizer support. They remove it on 1/1/2002. Elhak, they're in your words. Two, the fight against Zirai and the veterinary drug support... have already been paid up to 30 percent of the bills. We remove it on 1/1/2002. In such products as beets, tobacco, nuts, and cotton... ▪ We will remove market price support and base price applications applied to these products. They say. They're taking him down in 2001. Electricity support used in agriculture is being removed in 2002; see here.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0130par0901	Minister, during your time, agriculture was divided, agriculture was divided! Reform, reform, extreme reform! You've rained on your own constituency, you've ruined other places! The Turkish people know that! The practice of seedling aid and a postponement of loan loans to farmers who are suffering from natural disasters is being lifted in 2002, according to this commitment. You gave loans to nerds who didn't exist, and in Diyarbakir, you made them sell cows somewhere else in the country! Everybody knows that! There used to be interest subsidies in agriculture, in favour of farmers, farmers; they take it away, they raise it to the level of normal commercial interest. Minister, what happened to milk, milk, food, diesel, fertilizer? Why don't you explain this to me? Now, my dear brothers, look, you've removed all of this. This is your reform! You screwed up, and then you come in here and you talk! FOR WHO? World Bank. Who? You're telling the World Bank. Why? You say: "Give us some money." They say: "We don't give it to you, you squander it, you don't manage it well." They say so. What about the milk project, Mr. Secretary? The milk project ended in a month. If you make these commitments, if you convince us, we'll lend you money. And that's the story of this letter, these guys, they do this.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0132par0913	Mr. Secretary, don't sweep this man into the hole, use this. Who is it?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0130par0914	What about the milk project, milk? The milk is out of order! The milk is broken, the project is over! Now, when I got up like this, I came here, blah, blah, blah, blah, that's not cool, that's not true. Dear lawmakers, you haven't given the farmer his sweat or his rights. 2002 election year, that year you support $1.8 billion of farmers. Fine, but look, populism is here. In 2001, there were 593 million, 344 million in 2000 -- all MHPs in them, MHP running the Department of Agriculture -- 226 million in 99. So when it comes to 2002, when it's election year, it's called the right income support, which is what people call the tar and the money. Now, we've supported agriculture, we'll continue to support it. We've raised our support from $1.8 billion to $7.7 billion, and in 2013 it goes up to $9 billion, 9 billion.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0133par0918	They're calling from everywhere. There are farmers who want to pay their respects!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0130par0919	Pay for the bad milk! What's wrong with the milk project? Now, I'm asking you to think about $1.8 billion and compare $9 billion to this. How many more floors? We value that many times more farmers and agriculture than you do. Now, you've raised interest, we've reduced interest. You cut the support to the farmers, we brought new support. You made it smaller, we made it bigger. And now you've finished your work, your animalism.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0134par0922	We're going to sing a song, don't worry about it. Well, that's a fine example of enthusiasm, and I'll leave that to the discretion of our respectable nation. You took the farmer out of the mix, the farmer. The farmer's on the phone, crawling in jail, thanks to you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0135par0925	Look, look, the farmers pay their respects, their respect! They call from Şanlıurfa. They call from Harran. They call from Adıyaman, and to the MP who speaks. Now, Mr. President, valued lawmakers, agricultural interest rates in 2002, Agriculture Bank 59 per cent in agricultural loan co-ops, 69 per cent in agricultural loans. So, what's today, in the power of the AK PARTY? Zero to seven-and-a-half, zero. They're paying their respects!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0136par0928	It's Adıyaman, Adıyaman. Last year, 6.6 billion pounds of interest-free loans were given to farmers.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0137par0930	What happened when you did? Now you want a reverse commission. Now, dear friends, $530 million in agricultural loans, plus, Agriculture Bank lends to farmers 58 per cent and 59 per cent to 68 per cent. This went up to $22.3 billion in 2011.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0136par0932	Minister, can you tell me the number of farmers in prison? The ones who went to jail for failing to pay now, the violations of the commitment, how many? Tell me about them. Now, we're going to say, look how much of that loan of yours, that $530 million, has gone back. How much of the loan does the farmer give back? The return rate of agricultural bank loans is 38 per cent, 99 per cent today, 99 per cent today. So, 22.3 billion farmers get loans. Tell me the number of people in prison. But he's paying back 99 percent of it, he's paying back. So this loan was used in the right place, given to the right person, employed, produced, and then paid off.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0138par0936	Mr. Secretary, we have farmers who pay their respects! Mr. President, valued lawmakers; now, investment in agriculture at fixed prices, which is also very important. So, was there an investment in the agricultural sector or not? Look, 1998-2002...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0139par0938	Explain it to me. You lent $7.5 million in interest-free loans from the Agriculture Bank. Explain that. Sit down, sit down. Listen to me. 7.5 million liras... When you talk, you come here and talk. It's down 44%, 98-2002. It's up 160 percent in our time, 160 percent.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0140par0943	Mr. President, it's a citizen calling to see if they can tie us up.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0139par0944	Why did you give it to me?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0141par0945	Mr. Young, please take your place...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0140par0946	The citizen is paying his respects to the Minister! GEDA, MEHMET MEHDI EKER OF TRAVEL AND ANIMALITY What's up? Increased fixed capital investments in agriculture have increased by 160 per cent.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0142par0948	How many, 7.5 trillion liras did you give your followers from the Agriculture Bank without interest?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0143par0949	Mr. Secretary, if you'd like to go to Diyarbakir, Bismil. These numbers aren't right.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0144par0950	You didn't leave hay in the country, hay. There is an increase in investments made by private sectors by 99-2002 at 844 per cent at current prices.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0145par0952	Here's the truth, look, he's calling, he's paying his respects to the Minister! Now, my production has been abandoned, production has fallen. It's been said here a moment ago. None of those numbers are based on the truth. There'll be more questions, there'll be more questions, and you won't be able to escape. Just so we're clear. Mr. President, the valued MPs, they've been told, "Here comes the throne." It's said, "This one." These numbers have no connection to the truth, no connection to the truth.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0146par0956	Mr. Secretary, just explain the diesel. From 98 to 2002, grain production was reduced by 7 per cent, from 33 million to 30.8 million tonnes to 98.8 million tons. From 2002-2012 to 8.3 per cent, up to 33.4 million tons.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0147par0958	Don't worry about them! How many pounds of wheat buys him a liter of diesel, give him an account. There's been talk of fat seeds here, not real numbers, I'm correcting them.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0146par0960	Explain how many times hay prices have gone up in the last year. How much do you charge for the hay? GIDE, AGIM AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Secondly), 1 million 72,000 tonnes per 98; 1 million 57,000 tonnes per 2002; 1 million 756 thousand tonnes per 2011; 66% increase. It's in fatty seeds, canola and sunflowers.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0148par0962	You made me forget the math I know, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0149par0963	Mr. Secretary, citizen respect... Thank you, Mr. Chosen said there is an increase in the production of Egypt. Look, Şanliurfa, Adıyaman, they're calling from all over the country. GIDE, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER (still) rose from 2.2 million tons to 4.6 million tons. It's over 100 percent. But in your time of power, corn production has decreased by 9%.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0150par0967	We'll defend your rights to the end, don't worry!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0149par0968	Don't worry! You're a mess! Now, fruit production has decreased by 4 per cent between 98-2002 -- they show photos -- from 13.9 million tons to 13.4 million tons. We've increased 37 percent, up 37 percent to 18.3 million tons. Now, production has not decreased, but efficiency has increased. It has just been said in wheat, dear friends, Mr. Chosen; 50 percent of wheat imports are specially inferior in Turkey because they are processed and exported into Far East markets as biscuits, biscuits, flour. When Turkey was 14th in the world -- we took over -- it's now number one in the export of wheat flour.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0151par0972	Minister, come to the milk, come to the meat, come to the mazota, eat, come to the fertilizer. You're not talking about any of this, that's what's wrong with the citizen. Turkey, net, exporter of wheat in the world. Turkey needs 18 million tonnes and Turkey has produced 20.1 million tonnes of wheat this year. That's right, it imports, but it's being processed and exported to create an additional value for the industry's raw material. Mr. Secretary, explain to me how many cows you've sold to your supporters for $7 billion, now how many of them are left. If not, there is no reduction in the quality of the veil or in the quality of the altar, nor is Turkey's quality of wheat being met from within. A claim such as that is true, these are not true.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0152par0976	It's all about the money, the mind. Look, this is very important -- we're taking over 2.5 million tons now, with 45 per cent increase. Now, it's said: "Turunçgil is left behind, it can't be marketed." See, now, let me tell you about marketing, I'll tell you about exports.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0151par0978	Mr. Secretary, explain to me what happened to the milk cows you sold for 7 billion. Look, we have the answers to everything. What about the cows you sold to the allies for $7 billion? There's an answer to everything, don't worry about it. How many cows have you sold to? This is the end of the nation... Look, in 2002, Turkey exports 811,000 tons of 2.5 million tons...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0153par0984	Minister, just one question: how much was the wheat in 2002, how much was the diesel now? Explain how many pounds of wheat can buy a liter of diesel, and I'll forgive you. GIDE, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEKER (Secondly) - But Turkey is exporting 3.6 million tons now. I mean, what's the increase? Export value up to $1.1 billion.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0154par0986	How much was the hay, how much was the bait? He's telling a story.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0153par0987	Get over it, get over it...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0154par0988	Mr. President, the citizen is going crazy! The council's phones are blocked, they're looking for the group. In 2002-2011, exports increased by 84%, and financially. Don't they tell you that on 99-2002...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0155par0991	What did the Prime Minister say to you? He said, "You made me forget the math I know." I think the Prime Minister's right. Did the Prime Minister say that, Mr. Secretary? Did the Prime Minister tell you to forget the math I know?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0156par0993	Thank you, Mr. President. Let's not, sir... Thank you, thank you, thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0157par0997	Mr. President, it's a citizen, the House's phones are locked. ▪ That is not true. He says, "Please let us talk there." Tie him up. They say it's impossible.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0156par0998	He's on hold. Sir, you know we don't have that kind of procedure.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0157par1000	I mean, they pay their respects! Would you speak, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0156par1001	Wait a second... Interviews...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0157par1003	Mr. Secretary, can you speak?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0156par1004	One second, one second, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0158par1005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0156par1006	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0158par1007	I've been told there's been false, unsubstantiated allegations. They said the numbers were wrong. I'd like to take your word for it.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0156par1008	He's got your number right.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0158par1009	Sir, there's teasing. He accused us of insincerity, he accused us of insincerity, he accused us of lying, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0156par1010	Okay, just a minute, please.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0159par1011	Mr. Secretary, it's our farmer. Can you talk?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0160par1012	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0156par1013	Your Honor, I'll give you one, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0161par1018	Now, Mr. Secretary has talked more about agriculture-related politics, policies, than his own actions during the 57th Government.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0162par1019	There's nothing more to say.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0163par1020	Mr. Secretary, can you talk to the farmer on the phone? We're talking to farmers. We don't need your help.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0164par1022	He accused the opposition of insincereness, of insincerity, of slander.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0163par1023	On the phone, on the phone. We talk to farmers all the time. He's getting away, he's getting away!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0165par1026	Now, I represent the nation here, and if I'm insincere, the Turkish nation is insincere, and if I'm not serious, the Turkish nation is not serious. We don't make up these complaints. The producer of the narciatrist in the Mediterranean, the wheat producer in Central Anatolia, the breeder of animals all over Turkey, and the sunflower maker in Thrace. Isn't there a crisis in livestock? With a kilo of milk? Can you take 1 kilo of bait?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0166par1029	Mr. Secretary, look, the citizen says: "Give me the phone and I'll talk to him."
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0167par1030	He won't take the phone, he won't take it. He's looking for a citizen.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0165par1031	Are animals sold for road money? Do these complaints come to you? Then we're not lying, the people aren't lying. It's not the people, it's the people who are twisting it; it's the people who are telling the truth. The Minister can't manage the Department of Agriculture, he's excited.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0168par1035	Mr. Chooser, thank you. Mr. Chancer, here you are, sir. In a minute, please...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0169par1038	Just a minute, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0170par1040	Mr. President, don't say too much, just a minute. You've been running this country for ten years and you're Minister of Agriculture. At the end of the decade, you import animals from abroad, for the first time in the history of the Republic. You started it, too. I'll figure out the numbers. It's not enough animals, you're importing carcas. Mr. Secretary, look, this is the result of your power, the press are filming, it's the result of your power. Photos taken a few days ago in Anatolia are shown here how the farmer dumps his sweat; this is the picture taken in Kumluca. Dear friends, these are not from 2002, but from the state of your power, the state of the farmer during the Minister's term. Look, let me tell you something. Dear friends, no matter what you say, you can't describe yourself by taking refuge in yesterday. The lemon was 1 lira in 2002, the diesel was 1 lira; today the lemon is 30 cents, the diesel is 4 lira; this is the work of your power. It's an injustice to the farmer, Mr. Secretary, and God will answer to you for it.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0171par1048	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Negotiations on the gene are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes on whether or not the motion to be brought up.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0172par1054	Wait a minute, sir, wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0171par1055	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0172par1056	There are calls again, Mr. Secretary. Someone's calling again.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0171par1057	He's on hold, sir. Thank you. All those who have agreed to the motion of the gene... those who have refused to accept... the motion for the gene is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0173par1060	Mr. President, why did you actually take the stand today? Mr. President, I'm asking you a question: why did you take the stand today? There are four Deputy Speakers here.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0171par1061	Now, the motion for the geneor number 11/16, which is found in the second part of this part, has been withdrawn according to the motion that has just been read.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0173par1062	Will you just listen to me? Wait a minute, will you listen to the Vice President...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit01spe0171par1063	We'll move on to the next motion. I'm gonna take five now.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0171par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 23rd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We are starting talks on the opening of a gene for Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc (11/17) on behalf of the National Movement Party Group's Group Chairs, İzmir MP Oktay Vural and Mersin MP Mehmet Şandir, as to the terrorist and separatist terrorist organization's statement, claiming that it has weakened the morale and tenacity of security forces fighting terrorism. Government? He's in position. I'm not having the motion re-readed because it was printed and distributed earlier and was read in the 16th Union of the General Assembly, dated 6/11/2012. Members of parliament, according to Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the Council of Ministers, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers will be promised in this meeting. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motion holder, 20 minutes for groups and government. Now, I'm reading the names of the members in question... Mr. Sinan Okan, the Iğdır MP. Mr. Oğan, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0174par0012	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0171par0013	Your time is ten minutes, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0174par0014	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0171par0015	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0174par0016	We're MPs here. When we talk about anything, you keep your head down, you don't look. You have to respect your congressman, one. Why were you on that stand today?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0171par0018	Our friend...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0174par0019	Today... no, sir...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0171par0020	Hold on... hold on a second.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0174par0021	Why do I have to sit down?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0171par0022	Let me answer your question. Why did I leave? Our friend is uncomfortable, so he asked me to leave. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0175par0025	If it's uncomfortable, then there'll be the other deputy president of the opposition party, and then there'll be the parliamentary deputies who'll be the only ones who'll be in charge of the party's pleasure?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0171par0026	Our friend asked me.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0175par0027	This Court was not created according to procedure.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0171par0028	You're speaking fictionally.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0175par0029	No, the Court is not a one-party.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0171par0030	My friend asked me, and I said, "Okay." Go ahead, ask. There's no such thing. Please take your seat... please take your seat.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0175par0032	You can't move like that. You can't just push your hand like that.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0171par0033	Please take your seat.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0175par0034	You didn't have the court treated the way you did. There are three AKP people on the court, who can't lead the Court. You have to get the court to thank you accordingly. Look, it's so much fun...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0171par0035	We've arranged the court, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0175par0036	We won't let you sit there if you're so cheerful!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0171par0037	Please take your seat, your words have been contained, and if you have anything, you will object.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0175par0038	Please, here, observe the procedure.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0171par0039	Mr. Oğan, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0176par0040	Sir, can you turn the clock back on, ten seconds...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0171par0041	Sir, I did, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0176par0042	Thank you. Dear President, the esteemed MPs, first I would like to remind you that there is no good in lying. Mr. Secretary just told me what they're doing here in agriculture. Our citizens from Iğdır have called, asking me to tell the Minister of Agriculture, who has finished his sugar beets in Iğdır, not to lie, and I am fulfilling this request from my citizen. We've taken dozens more similar phone calls from me and our friends, but, Mr. Secretary, of course, there's got to be a face and a heart to answer those phones, so they just took off.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0177par0045	You'll understand him in the election.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0176par0046	Now, today we heard the Prime Minister's speech at a group meeting. He asked the opposition, who, in its own way, underestimated the genesis of the National Movement Party, in a way that tried to buy a lecture, in terms of american terms, an odd question, such as why do you give the opposition, which is one of the most important tools given by the Parliament and the opposition, the Constitution, the Interior Charter, to the nation's authority? Dear lawmakers, why is there opposition? The opposition exists to correct the wrongs of power, to guide the right path to power, and to show the people this face of power, but the Deputy Prime Minister prevents it. Why are you obstructing the citizen's right to information? Why are you trying so hard to prevent the citizen's right to information? If you're so confident, you'll see that we'll get into these issues in our other, tomorrow's genome. Dear MPs, there are millions of dollars' worth of islands in the world, but in Turkey, there is the island of the terrorist leader Abdullah Ocalan, who has set fire to millions of people's hearts. As if that weren't enough, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Brünt Arinc says Abdullah Ocalan could go under house arrest. So I'm asking Mr. Deputy Prime Minister -- if the minister of Turkish Cypriots is here -- you're going to give the order to the minister of Turkish Cypriots, and you're going to put Abdullah Ocalan's villa under house arrest? Mr. Deputy Prime Minister's recent speeches, actions, good police with the Prime Minister, bad police -- Vice Prime Minister for being responsible for crying -- and once in a while the crying mothers of the Turkish nation, as well as the occasional crying of the terrorist, as often as he makes a mockery of the crying, believe it alone, deserve this geneor. When it comes to terror, of course, you can't help but ask where we come from in ten years. When we handed power over to you as the National Movement Party in 2002, when you came to power, we had six martyrs in just one year, even more. Six martyrs in a year are more than enough. The heart wants us not to have a single martyr. The heart wishes that not even one person's nose bleeds, but in the co-ordinator of destruction in your time of power, the Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister in charge of crying, unfortunately, daily reports of martyrs have arrived in Turkey. The Finance Ministry's Financial Crimes Research Board MASAK says the terrorist organisation raised $28m last year under the name of the decision-making tax. The BDP states that part of the mayors' salaries have been transferred to the PKK; I read from the MASAK report. Don't forget that you are serving the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in some way by increasing the authority of the mayors now and by this law you passed. Just a moment ago, a speaker said that the cost of the Parliament's work in one day is this. Parliament's normal working time today. So, why did you run the House for division law on Sunday, Saturday, other than working days? Isn't this being billed for? You show up here without a reckoning, shamelessly trying to block the opposition's challenge today. And you're saying it costs money. Are you aware of the cost of your wrong policies -- Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, your wrong policies -- to praise terrorism, to give moral support to the terrorist organization, even indirectly, to the Turkish nation? You know that, but I'm afraid it's not working for you. On the day that we had 10 martyrs in Bingöl, Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc says that the terrorist organization was wise. That's all that was left. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister left the terrorist organization with no brains and no morale. Of course, you used to use a phrase like this, and you don't use it lately: the dream has come true. Yes, it used to be a dream that a Deputy Prime Minister would give advice to a terrorist organization today. Another Justice and Development Party spokesman said we can't gather the Assembly because some Mehmets are dead. Even this word alone is enough to show the dire state of your power. The day you brought the division law, we insisted that the House be interrupted for a while, to attend the martyr's funerals, but you even opposed it. Because a few Mehmets are dead, are you going to go to a martyr's funeral? Since you're in your senses, you're going to face the account of the Turkish nation both in the afterlife and in today's account because you called the martyr a martyr, and unfortunately you went to that blessed prophet's furnace and prevented us from supporting our martyrs. I don't know what else to tell you but the humiliation of the Justice and Development Party's anti-terrorism adventure in Habur, and the misery of Oslo. Many things are said, the Prime Minister said, "What is it that proves that we are meeting with the PKK (PKK)?" He used a word we couldn't even say here. He later claimed that he was in charge of the National Intelligence Agency. Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc said that if need be, you will see him again. The terrorist organization and I always see each other whenever we need to. He said that even in Islam he would have to lie to find a relationship between his wife and her husband to prove his point. I'd like to remind Mr. Vice Prime Minister there's no good in lying. But, of course, since your life is a lie, I don't know what to remind you of. In last year's budget talks, the emphasis that the Deputy Prime Minister made on identity again has been a source of moral support to the terrorist organization, almost. The Vice Prime Minister's support for the police chief, who uses his statements, is not out of the question, if he does not cry for the terrorist in the same way. In all your speeches, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you support the terrorist organization, and with all your talk, you've become, like, a source of morale for the terrorist organization. While you give this support to the terrorist organization, our Mehmetchik is still fighting the terrorist organization at this hour. Of course, you're competing with the Parliamentary branch of Kandil. So from here, I'd like to say to the AKP, who screwed up everything, that instead of integration, you're making discrimination, the greatest separative. I wish you'd focus yourself on zero terror instead of that famous zero-problem policy you screwed up. I wish your foreign policy, your domestic policy, were the main agenda of zero terrorism. If zero were terrorism, at least people like you, Deputy Prime Minister, wouldn't have to give the terrorist moral advice. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0178par0061	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Now, on behalf of the nationalist movement group,
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0179par0064	Mayor, what did you do with the ranking?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0178par0065	We did it according to the order of the pledge. However, the National Movement Party has made a request, which will be carried out after its motion, as they themselves have the motion, and after that...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0180par0066	How could you do such a thing, Mr. President? There's a pattern here. The word is written and demanded, and the order is followed according to that demand. Enjoyance management?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0178par0067	With your turn...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0180par0068	Don't! Shame on you! Shame on you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0178par0069	There's nothing to be ashamed of.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0180par0070	Shame on you, Mayor. Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0178par0071	It's not your turn right now anyway.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0180par0072	It's a shame, don't do it!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0178par0073	There's a Republican People's Party Group before you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0180par0074	Don't!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0178par0075	We didn't do anything, sir. Mr. Group, I told the Vice President.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0180par0076	How do you change your line when you're in a good mood?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0178par0077	It's not about pleasure.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0180par0078	Mr. Baluken has applied here.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0178par0079	Only friends asked me, and I told the Deputy Director of the Group. Not at all. It's not your turn anyway.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0181par0080	Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0178par0081	Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0182par0082	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first I salute you all...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0181par0083	Mr. President, then you told me, and then you told me.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0178par0084	From now on, it's yours.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0183par0085	Can you tell me which Group Vice President you asked?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0181par0086	Only after I came and asked you, you passed it on to me. Nothing's been delivered before.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0178par0087	That's right. I explained it to you. They had a request like that, that they would talk together. He has no other purpose. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0184par0089	What does he want?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0185par0090	What request? You'll get some slack. Have a heart, Mr. President!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0186par0091	In the Republic of Turkey, it has been known that from time to time, statesmen and government officials' speech and speech have had very large and impressive results. It's been observed to be the same policy from the beginning. You have to draw the bottom of this with a thick line that statesmanly means that the word that comes out of his mouth has to be a promise that knows where it's going and that's what his ear hears and that's what it's meant to be after he's been filtered through. It has been known to everyone in the past that Mr. Demirel, Mr. Mesut Yilmaz, has brought the country to what point the resistance of terror and terror in Turkey. In this context, Turkey has a relationship with terrorism and its attitude towards terrorism. So the attitude with terrorism is like two scales of a scale, one doesn't go up without going down. If your attitude is negative, meaningless, at a level that could be harmful to the country and the community, then it's just as positive that the terrorist or the terrorist on the other side is rationalizing himself, legitimizing him and making him active, it's so effective. So it's not just a matter of people on the mountain, but it's also a reflection of the way politicians behave against terrorism. Now, before I come to Mr. Bulent Arinc, I'm going to come to the point after I've revealed a panorama about terrorist and separatist activities. There were no victims of terrorism in 2001, six of our soldiers were killed in the terrorist attack in 2002, and in 2003, in 2003, in 2003, 21, 2004, 73, 2005, 92 in 2006, 121 in 2006, 118 in 2007, 150 in 2008, 135 martyrs in 2009. According to ministry data, 223 TSK personnel were killed and 537 soldiers were injured in all domestic security incidents from January 1, 2010 to July 16, 2012. The terrorist organisation Iran, Syria, Iraq and Turkey have recently concentrated their terrorist activities and attacks, causing many citizens to be killed for it. Now, for the first time in the Republic of Turkey, terrorism has become so indexed to so many foreign relations. I'd like to express that in particular. As it is known, the Justice and Development Party launched a project under the name "democratic expansion" to solve the Kurdish problem he called "No." During the same time period, the separatist organization launched talks with its leader in Imralı, and with its members in Oslo. As talks continue, the government has halted military and security operations in the process of reconciliation, according to its commitments to the separatists. The military garrison, the governor's province, the police are also confined to the police station, and orders have been given to the terrorists to perform a preventive operation, in a manner of speaking, forbidden and veiled, not to do so. The separatist organisation, which took advantage of the opportunity, has gone a long way to complete its organization, penetrate the public, and establish authority in the region. As of 17 May 2005, the process revealed the construction of a parallel state against the Republic of Turkey. Article 3 of the ACK contract defines the flag of the ACK. The 15th article describes the Supreme Court of Justice, consisting of 7 original, 4 alternate members selected from the TK citizens. This court is declared the highest-ranking appeal of all courts in the TK judicial system. The KCK is a state model of the Republic of Turkey, whose flag is set with a length of regulation. The TK contract is the constitution of this state-run structure. It is known throughout the world that this structure appeared in 2005, during your reign, as a long-standing democratic civilian initiative, that it was ignored, that the negotiations were not over, that the sentence was addressed. Honourable lawmakers, meanwhile, the AKP's Powers have launched an almost permanent hunt against members of the TSK, claiming that there have been numerous coup attempts since its arrival in 2002. Today, a very serious number of officers who fought to the death of the separatist organization have been arrested as a result of these operations. TSK's elite officers were left alone in Silivri, where years later they could learn what they were accused of. 1) Oğuz Kalelioglu is the commander of the resistance of the Turks who were taken into custody by the Greeks during Operation Peace in 1974. He is a retired colonel, who, for the first time in history, was able to drive off an army of 8,000 men, using 229 rusty rifles, with 250 heroes standing at the height of six and a half metres in life. He has been under arrest in Silivri for months. 2) The commanders of the Kardak team, Ercan Kirectepe and Ali Turkşen, who went up to the island and shot the Turkish flag in Kardak, were arrested in prison. 3) Engin Alan is a blood-soaked, fascist, heroic soldier who has been directly involved in the assassination of Mehmetchik killers, such as Shemdin Sakık and Abdullah Ocalan, who has been restricting northern Iraq to separatist elements. He is a member of this Parliament and is still under arrest in Silivri. 4) Colonel Attila Uður is on the team that questioned Ocalan. He's still under arrest. This means that Nene Hatun was arrested in Erzurum. Hasan Tahsin was arrested in İzmir. Those who arrest their heroes are without heroes. Following that, former chief of staff Ilker Başbug, a commander in command of NATO's third-largest army, is in prison for building an illegal armed terrorist organization. Police Commissioner Hanefi Avcı, who dedicated his life to fighting terrorism, was arrested as part of the terrorist organization he was fighting. Nowadays, the number two name of the bloody terrorist organization is Şemdin Sakık and the PKK's Marmara chief is being heard by the courts as a confidential witness. I explained all this to compare the morale and motivation of the PKK with the morale of the TSK. Is this all a coincidence to you, O government? Is there anything wrong with all this? Whether the increase in terrorism is closely related to the morale of the TSK, or not, I leave it to your consciences. Operations that have been wronged or rightfully carried out against members of the TSK, and criticism of them, have greatly undermined the reputation of the soldier as it demoralises him. Mr. Bulent Arinc's speeches have upset the TSK, and have given the separatist organization a direct or indirect moral boost. A variety of statements made by Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc have given the separatist terrorist organization morale, hope-enhancing, and divisive ambitions justified. This directly affects the psychology and morale of the security forces fighting terrorism. These words belong to Mr. Arinc: I thank God that some soldiers did not go to war in their time, or else they will not be able to fight. I leave these words to the discretion of the great Turkish nation, what effect it will have on the morale and motivation of the soldier. Mr. Arinc has not only spoken against soldiers, but also against nationalism, anti-Turkish, anti-Istrial Anthem. Arinc made one of these at AKP headquarters on May 10, 2011. By referring to the initial provisions of the Constitution, Arinc, I have no complaints about the Islamic anthem, the flag, but I find it not right not to offer them. Not only is the republic touched, it can be removed from the Constitution, the national anthem. Arinc points out that it is a tradition from September 12th, when he says that the reading and the standing of the Istrillal March at the beginning of each meeting is a duty and a fear. I don't have a complaint, just don't let the republic be touched. It is the disorientation and confusion of the concept. Those who argue everything, those who are available for anything, eventually lose everything. ▪ Turkish and Stistical March are one of the main goals of the PKK. Arinc has expressed similar thoughts about this matter. Dear lawmakers, terror cannot be destroyed until the hope of terror is destroyed. During the 2011 budget talks, Mr. Bulent Arinc gave a speech saying: "All of them, whoever, whatever is on this land, will speak freely of their own identity. We'll respect that identity. We will give all the cultural rights, constitutional rights of that identity, and we will recognize them. They will all say, "Who is it, and what is there, that he will be able to identify himself on this land." I ask Mr. Arinc here: Is it not easy for him to reveal his identity on this land? If he can't say it, why have you waited ten years, and why didn't you do it? In the past, especially in times of impact, to present certain prohibitions as if they were present today, whose bread is it to butter? ▪ We will give cultural rights, constitutional rights, and we will recognize them. When you say that, Mr. Arinc, explain to whom you intend to give whatever rights or whatever message you give. What rights do Kurdish-born Turkish citizens have to their identity that they can't use because of the Constitution, which you're talking about giving them the rights that they don't have? Because you say so, others speed up their actions and operations to gain their rights and attack the military and martyr them. Isn't that your responsibility at all? If it is the rights of the Constitution, you mean, it is not up to you not to give those rights. If you're talking about non-constitutional rights, then you're committing a crime by giving the rights that are not in the Constitution to a group and committing constitutional crimes. No, if you're planning to give the state's rights to the new identity, the new constitution, the new rights, then there's something else. Do you not take up arms and encourage and encourage the terrorist organization, whose ultimate goal is to divide Turkey? Dear MPs, on March 9, 2010, Mr. Arinc will often forgive CHP (AKP), Ocalan. We were not involved in any project, such as amnesty, which would save Ocalan (Ecalan) from İmran (Imra). None of us had that in mind. On August 27, 2010, he stated that the general pardon was not included in the AKP's book, saying there would be no general amnesty. However, if terror can end later, perhaps one of the elements of this should be considered amnesty. After the terror's over, what's the need for amnesty anyway? You'll all be outside. Mr. Bulent Arinc may be a subject that can be considered during a period in which the terrorist organisation will begin with the demands of Abdullah Ocalan, in İmralı Prison, to be placed under house arrest. It can be discussed depending on the organisation's full disarming and non-action status. These statements are basically a message to the terrorists on the mountain. Mr. Arinc is establishing a relationship between the end of terror and amnesty. It's like saying to the members of the terrorist organization, "Be patient, hold on, you'll succeed eventually; the amnesty will be in that frame." Dear MPs, Mr. Oğan has just told me how clever the terrorists were when Bkent Arinc attacked the military vehicle in Bingley, so I don't have to tell you. Mr. Arinc couldn't help but appreciate in a sense how clever the terrorists were. As a result of the events that took place in Pakat Reshadia, the PKK said it did not do so. Adeta, as if he knew about the events there, watched them closely, watched them closely, as if he knew who did it in the events, and he knew that PKK did not do it, by the way. Now, because of hunger strikes, the conditions for education in the native language, defence in the native language, and the removal of isolation for Ocalan were proposed by members of the separatist organization. On this occasion, Brünt Arinc makes political demands for hunger strikes at three points, almost two of these political demands have been resolved for today, and the other issue has to be studied and evaluated over time, he says. However, he had previously said that such a right could not be given in a different language than Turkish. So, in the tradition of saying the opposite of what you said yesterday, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the subject of education in the native language is something we don't accept. Speaking of which, this time, he can say that education has been resolved according to the demands of the separatists in the native language. Thus, it also gives concessions to members of a terrorist organization who abuse human life immorally for their political purposes. Dear MPs, as it is known, the Diyarbakır Police Commissioner said that if you don't pity the terrorist in the mountains and cry, you're not human. Diyarbakır Police Commissioner has decided to cry for terrorists who brutally murdered the late Gaffar Okkan. That's a matter for him to know. However, Mr. Arinc immediately makes a statement and says: "I appreciate it when we look at the content of the Diyarbakır Police Commissioner's speech, and I hope that the police in that area will be in those thoughts. " The terrorists in the mountain where Mr. Bkent Arinc was empathically involved with the following verbs: Mehmetçiks have been martyring and ambushing police officers. They land mines on the roads, they run schools, they kidnap teachers, they set fire to citizens' trucks, they shoot imams, and they kill innocent people. If you're gonna clap, give them a round of applause. What do these words and approaches do if they don't encourage terrorism, rationalize it, motivate it? It's a good idea to ask yourself that question. The investigation has been launched against the Diyarbakır Police Commissioner. In these words, the PKK has offered morale, motivation, and support to the KCK people; there is no action on it yet, and there is no debate on it. On the other hand, Mr. Arinc is trying to legitimize Oslo and legitimize, acceptable, normalize the vile images of Habur. Habur and Oslo are the enemies of the state of Turkey and the Turkish nation. Mr. Arinc, who is Deputy Prime Minister, is applauding both processes with a major incident, and it is clear to him that the kind of oslo talks can be done now, perhaps being held. With this attitude, Mr. Arinc is doing psychological operations against the public, using his status as a matter of public opinion, not to react to negotiations with terrorists and to be held; he is making the groundwork so that he does not have to respond to the public. Dear lawmakers, Bkent Arinc says these genes were given because we removed the policies of rejection and denial by referring to this gene. Dear Arinc, what are you talking about rejection and denial? You, on the contrary, divide a people whose grave, market, history, fate, grief, intertwined ethnic, sectarian sect, region. At this point, Mr. Arinc is actually telling the truth, and at some point he is telling the truth about the fact that this gene is given because he rejects and denies the Turkish nation. Mr. Arinc, you reject the Turkish nation, you can't tell which nation you live in on behalf of. You have a Kurdish problem, it's our problem. You say, "There's no Kurdish problem, there's no Kurdish problem." You say, "The Kurdish brothers have problems." It's called fuckoportunism. No one in this country can deny or deny anyone. Part by piece, region by region, ethnic segregation is not an end to the policy of rejection and denial; rather, it is an act of sedition, corruption, dissension of the people. Ziya Gökalp and Alparslan Türkeshin, as I am Turkish, Kurds are as Turkish as they are Kurds, and I am as Kurdish as they are Kurds. I have received three kinds of information from the Prophet, one to tell everyone, and the other to tell some people, and the other to tell no one between God and me. But Ariç says that I am a man of my heart, and at times it is a problem. Mr. Arinc, alone, if your conversations cause trouble for you, I don't mind, but your conversations cause trouble for the nation, and the soldier's head is being put in a bag. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Arinc, after all your explanations and approaches, I'd like you to do yourself one last favor and please evacuate that post. Leaving that post would be your greatest service to the Turkish nation. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0187par0131	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Aytun Çıray, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Cherry. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0188par0136	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I understand once again today that at the start of the 24th term legislature, one of the most righteous things the AKP has ever done was to bring censorship on behalf of the National Assembly. Tonight, we're talking about what the Turkish nation needs to know under this censorship. From 1900 p.m., the broadcasts were cut off, and you're still trying to get into politics with some bullshit about bringing democracy, forward democracy. Dear friends, our land is bleeding, our bonds are loosening, we're disseminating. We can't even celebrate our holidays with taste anymore. We can't even live our memorial days with dignity. Let's remember the November 10th we just left behind. The Turkish nation had mobilized to pay their respects to Saint Ataturk. We learned that our helicopter had fallen and that we had lost 17 martyrs. A deep pain has entered our hearts as a nation. But in the meantime, there's been something else that has caused us more pain. The governor of Siirt said that our helicopter had definitely fallen due to bad weather, as if it were at the scene. The PKK obviously didn't drop it, so we just wanted to be comfortable with the message. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like your attention at this point. Government officials have recently made a habit of describing such events as an accident. For example, Veysel Eroglu quickly declared that the explosion of the arsenal in Afyon was not sabotage, but an accident. I know why you're doing this: you're trying to hide the Prime Minister's responsibility in the bloodshed. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm afraid the facts are bitter. We're bleeding inside. Every martyr, every victim in the mountains who's become the killing machines of ethnic politics, is tearing apart our common future, but the AKP government has succeeded in what it hasn't had for years, bringing hatred and revenge down from the mountains. Look at the archives of the newspapers, review the news and comments between February 1999 and November 2002. The PKK was defeated at the time, and the will of our Kurdish citizens was about to be free of the mortgage of the terrorist organization, and we finally established the proper conditions to develop our democracy, but the AKP government and the Prime Minister did not act for years. Then, an empty Kurdish opening was created, a policy that highlighted constant separations. Now, Mr. Prime Minister, we're weak, and he's not sure what he's going to do, and he's just floating around. The Kurdish opening has arrived from the brotherhood project, and now from the execution project. However, the constitutional amendment that allowed the death penalty to be lifted was a sign of the Turkish Armed Forces' victory over terrorism. Dear MPs, as a result, in November 2002, the AKP took over a strong economy, a Turkey where terror almost zeroed out; and that is the truth that no one can deny. But why did Turkey return to the dark days of the mid 1990s? How did these security forces become a shaman when the terrorist organization was pampered? Now, friends, I'd like to give you an example of what Mr. Bulent Arinc said three years ago. There is no need for people to say that they regret coming down from the mountain. Why is there no? Otherwise, the PKK people's pride would be damaged. Bravo, Mr. Arinc, congratulations. No matter how sensitive you are, how emotional you are, and if you cry, your role will be complete. But what about the pride of security forces, veterans, martyr families? Does a statesman talk like that? Then we must ask, is your sensitivity to the pride of the PKK due to your closeness of spirit? Actually, Mr. Arinc, the Manisans gave you the first note. The Prime Minister said, "It won't happen anyway, so you threw the lid on him." Dear MPs, it's not my analogy, it's a public name, they call the Minister of State, who's responsible for crying. Mr. Arinc must have been obsessed with this description, which means that having tears makes you human. He says to a person who lacks tears, he feels pity for his heartlessness, for his unconscionableness, for his loss of life, for his immorality. Good, good words, Mr. Secretary, if only you'd followed those descriptions. Now they're going to object, and they're going to say, "Leave me the reading of intent." I wish it were. But all these tears, conscience, literature of humanity, are nothing more than a cheap and simple political propaganda trick. Otherwise, Mr. Arinc, would you scold the 70-year-old Manisa farmer and insult him in front of millions? Mr. Secretary, you're using our human state of mind to mask your political goals. You're good at that, too. If it weren't for your media power, the Turkish nation would have noticed that you were playing games with them. These people don't have experience with it because it's the first time they've experienced such a person. For the first time, the Turkish nation has witnessed that tears are the tool of tacitism. Guys, remember before the September 12, 2010 referendum. This popular vote for the capture of the state over the judiciary coincided with the 30th anniversary of the coup on September 12th. By September 12th, it was transformed into a reckoning over September 12th over revolutionary and sovereign victims. At the AKP group meeting on July 20th, the prime minister read the final letters of two young people sent to the gallows by the coupgers of September 12th, and the revolutionary Erdal Eren. As he read Pehlivanoğlu's letter -- according to the newspaper Radikal -- he was sobbing. So, like anger, he taught us that crying, sobbing, and tears were also the art of propaganda in Goebbels. Now, the same Prime Minister is up today and talks about the extradition of the death penalty, which he himself lifted in the framework of EU integration, which he suggests is not to be hanged. I'm speaking to the Turkish nation here, and if they can hear it, it's been exactly two years since the September 12th referendum. They haven't brought the Universe to court yet, let alone judge the universe! And when they did, they knew they wouldn't legally judge. They lied to the Turkish nation. We didn't tell them. If they say it, they'll judge and punish if they don't.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0189par0151	You'll see when you're grounded.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0188par0152	Now I'm going to make a note of this: I'll see the Prime Minister. He said that Apophis is not true, nor is his promise that they will hang him. This slogan was coined to be used as propaganda material for the AKP constitution. Dear lawmakers, as you know, for a long time the Inter-party Constitutional Compromise Commission has been working. What kind of constitution is he working on? He's working on a constitutional system based on the parliamentary system. In the middle of the work, the AKP is bringing the constitution of the presidential system to the agenda. So he's a spoilsport. This proposal proves that the Prime Minister has been disrespectfully distracting the Commission for Reconciliation, the intellectuals who have contributed to this Commission, the Speaker of Parliament, Mr. Cicek. And our nation. I hereby declare that with this proposal, the AKP has once again registered that it is an uncompromising, imposed political party. I declare again to the AKP that the AKP is a party-slaying constitutional fugitive. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] The Prime Minister's account is different. He seeks to build an authoritarian constitution, which is handed to him, without our founders and founders' values. In the previous referendum, he used the coup of September 12th, and now he intends to use the death penalty to persuade our citizen to vote yes, who is suffering from his own reign of terror. It's a game of "Cambaza." Because it's time for the Turkish model to build a constitution that will reach its goal in bullying under the name of the president.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0190par0156	They also provide the right to education in the native language.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0188par0157	When you launch the new constitutional campaign tomorrow, don't be surprised if the martyr letters from the AKP stand appear as if they're not the ones who started redistributing blood, making dirty negotiations in Oslo, making federal laws. Of course, in the fund, we will see Mr. Arinc sobbing. Dear friends, as long as it opens up the front of the presidential referendum through the heart of pain that will grant the death penalty. It's all politics. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the crown of the fittest. Look, Mr. Arinc reacted very strongly to the allegations that they were negotiating with the terrorist on September 7, 2010. Our life is in the middle of everything, and he added: "We are not dishonest and dishonest enough to negotiate with the terrorist organization. " The Prime Minister made a similar statement, but here, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Kilicdaroglu has uncovered your lies, he's made you swallow your spit.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0191par0160	Even your own group doesn't believe you!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0188par0161	Oslo knows his meetings now, believe it or not. If you can't read or write, I have nothing to say. The hole won't stop, Mr. Arinc let it slip on 12 September 2010 to legitimize Oslo talks. According to our religion, it's necessary to lie to find out between the parties! Is it true? Right. Right, but who are the sides? One is a traitor to the PKK, the other is a special representative of the Prime Minister. Who wants to find out between the parties? English. In that case, Mr. Secretary, what do you think of lying if it comes to the mediator? I'll tell you what, whatever gentlemen do in the name of religion, if it rains from them, if it floods from the Republican People's Party. Gentlemen, isn't it the Silivry that brings out the hypocritical, dirty accounts and cooperation? In fact, sometimes I want to shout, "God is enough." The last religion you sent can't be so exploited. Dear friends, I'm not telling you, the documents are talking. How did you threaten Turkish Metal-Business Union President Mustafa Uzbek, who was held in Silivri for twenty-two months without knowing what crime was charged, Mr. Secretary? I ask you, do not be rude to Uzbek. If you speak, you will enter. Who says? So, how did you handle the release of three people who were released from the Lighthouse case? Didn't you say that the decision made by the judges who evacuated them should be an example to others? Do you, Minister, wish to pass through Turkish political history as a man of false conscience, false tears?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0192par0164	What a shame!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0188par0165	You've done a lot of damage to the TSK in Turkey's fight against terrorism, a lot. For example, three years ago, you were accused of being assassinated by a group of Turkish Armed Forces. Just in time for the evening news, all the televisions were mobilised. The most secret documents of the Turkish Armed Forces were entered into cosmic rooms. Our MP, Mr. Ali Riza Kokturk, asked: "What was the result of these operations? " What was the procedure of the amateur assassins who were spying on you without even knowing that you were in Manisa? In those days, you were laughing and mocking the Armed Forces. Just how much damage did this slander do to the Armed Forces, did you get a balance sheet? Mr. Secretary doesn't agree with what you say, but it doesn't matter. We've already broken the media; we have the monopoly to dictate what's real and what's right. You think, like you censored this place. For example, you thanked God that we didn't go to war with these generals in early February 2010; since you didn't import officers from outside, what changed now that you wanted to bring armed forces into Syria as assassins? You were there last year when the MIT budget was being discussed, so I asked a question. Then you didn't answer me because I wasn't there because of the timing. Now I ask you again: what was the 95 per cent agreed upon in the PKK-AKP government negotiations in Oslo? What five percent deprived the Turkish nation of the kind of peace you understand? Explain this to the Turkish nation, manly, so that we can determine if the martyrs we've given for the five percent we don't agree on have been destroyed. In addition, you have claimed to have been 50 times more successful in the fight against terrorism in the last three years than in the last 30 years. Mr. Arinc, either you're the Deputy Prime Minister in a dream federal country, or I'm the Izmir MP in a parallel country, in a parallel universe. Who are you still trying to fool? I don't care who you are, what you are, what you are, what your origins are, what you are, I don't care, I'm not racist, I'm nothing, and I don't mind the Internet descriptions, but I can't stand the fact that you're turning the tables any longer. The days when the media will be free are not far, I hope. Who has spent the war on terror, and by what means as a coin, and one day it shall come to pass, and all shall be light, by the leave of God. If we don't find out one by one, we'll be damned, too. If you are not crying to the terrorist who died in the mountains, you are not human. It was neither human nor coincidental for me to explain that you found these views very valuable, as soon as you said, not at first, not at home, but at first, human. And so was Mr. Prime Minister's reaction to your statement, which is not coincidental or human. Some may be confused by your mutual explanations, but there is really nothing to be confused about, which is the need for AKP's fiction politics. You're playing good cop-bad cop, and you're sharing a role to get the Turkish nation to join the new Republic of Turkey. The first message was given to PKK representatives by you: ▪ Look, we kept another one of our promises in Oslo. You mean we made the right appointment in Diyarbakir. The Prime Minister's inverse exit was an exit to prevent the voter's reaction to Kayseri, Iconia, Yozgat, Kırşehir. I blame you for your games, and I blame you for deceiving our people.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0193par0170	Well, don't you have a solution model, a solution proposal?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0194par0171	What do you say, CHP?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0195par0172	We call it U.S. State, unitary state.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0196par0173	Now you have their consciences covered by the testimony of Shemdin Sakık. Believe me, I'd be less terrified if the sun came out of the west. Journalists, scientists, officers, defendants, Şemdin Sakık is a witness. I'm talking about a murderer with 33 unarmed soldiers' blood on his hands, unarmed...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0194par0174	What's your solution?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0196par0175	You've haunted the souls of our 33 martyrs, and you're not bothered at all? Now that you have become a memorialist, you have made a memorial to Shamdin Sakık. When is the coup, Mr. Secretary? Dear friends, as a result, all of this is a manifestation of the minds of vengeance, hatred, and hatred. That's why Recep Tayyip Erdogan has been using a separatist language, even from Apoka, for ten years straight, to auction the elements that make up the Turkish nation every time he opens his mouth. Therefore, the PKK cannot find a better political partner than the AKP. Even the death fasts that no human can accept, preparing the Turkish community for primary language education, is an ordered attempt to bring whatever is given for peace to the point of murder. These fasts are the result of the AKP-BDP boat fight.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0197par0177	If that's your opinion, you're screwed.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0196par0178	The BDP is AKP's default rule.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0198par0179	Alas, woe, woe, woe!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0196par0180	The greatest evidence of our findings is that he has devoted his compassion to Mr. Minister Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0199par0181	That's not what your medical proxy said.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0196par0182	Dear friends, as a result, the AKP's valued MPs, I'm sure you've noticed the same games. Let's all repeat ourselves so that you can reconsider your attitude, remember what we need to remember: there is no god but God, and Muhammad is his prophet. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0200par0185	What the hell is this? Where do you live?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0201par0186	Thank you, Mr. Cherry. Now it's time for the Peace and Democracy Party Group to speak to Mr. Sırrı Sakık. Here you go, Mr. Sakek. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0202par0190	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. I don't know what to say about his younger brother. I mean, it's crazy to even answer such informal questions. And but something good happened, something good happened, at least we saw what the Republican People's Party was about together. Even defending in a native language, to test it in this way, I swear, I've served at that party in the past, I've been a militant, and now I feel sorry for my years, and I'm sad and sad.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0203par0192	Don't tell me what I didn't tell you, don't tell me what I didn't tell you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0204par0193	He didn't say defense.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0205par0194	We call it a unitary state, we call it a flag.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0206par0195	Now, you've said these problems, you've done them, so there's always terror, terror, terror... isn't there something wrong with this country? Doesn't this country have a Kurdish problem? Wouldn't you have a project? Have you presented a project to stop this blood, violence? You don't have a project. So the AKP doesn't have a project, but you don't have one.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0207par0196	They're the power!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0206par0197	All over the world, the opposition party forces the authorities to live up to freedoms, but in my country, opposition parties do whatever it takes to limit freedoms, to undermine freedoms. Now, for God's sake, won't your one project, one project for these oppressed people? Near you, in south Kurdistan, there's the state of Kurds; there's a state that's been established from school to police to military, and there's four to five million Kurds there. In Syria, Kurds will rule themselves with democratic autonomy, despite all Turkey's red lines. But you're wrong if you think you're going to intimidate the Kurds of Turkey, 20 million Kurds, in this way, with your policies of terror, violence. So, these policies of yours are policies that will divide the country, and while I, in great sadness, listen to the speakers of the two parties, the Kurdish problem has become a rant problem. Politics doesn't form in Turkey without Kurdish problems... (Now get your hands off us!) Now, take this problem away from blood and violence... not only from the Kurds, but also from poor Anatolian children. Those who talk to us every day about the AKP lines, the ones who call us your children, return to your children. Recently, I'm going to lay out where whose children are studying. Don't give us any lip. No more politics over these poor children. Look, today is the 63rd day of the hunger strike. There are reactions all over the world. So in Kurdish geography, as a whole, at this time, in a Diyarbakir, call the president of the Republican People's Party, what's happening, you'll see what's happening. You call your own mayor, where you'll see the public's reaction. You can see how people are out on the street at this time of day, trying to keep their kids from dying. But you're playing the deaf and the blind. Europe, just now, the President of the European Parliament...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0208par0201	Deaf, blind, but long tongues, tongues! Deaf, blind, but their tongues are too long!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0206par0202	Yes, the languages are long. The president of parliament tells the Minister of Justice to solve this problem immediately, we are skeptical, we have concerns. He says, "The European Union says the same thing, America says the same thing, if you watched TV last night." But for some reason, every day, the Prime Minister of this country, the victims of the Party of Peace and Democracy, the lawmakers, put their bodies to hunger so that they don't get their coffins out of these prisons, what does the Prime Minister say? He says: "These are showing off. " Death has no show, no show of hunger, Mr. Prime Minister. It's kebab talk, liver kebab talk, you know? This doesn't suit you. There's no such thing in prisons, he says. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm telling you, the people who led you are giving you false information. Tomorrow, God forbid, if two coffins come out of prison, what do you say to this community? It's not like fighting on a mountain, in a battle on a mountain, not like killing on a street, not like people who lost their lives in a fight, not like people who lost their lives in torture. The people between the four walls have no weapons, they put their bodies to death, they want defence in the native language, they want education in the native language, and the peace process has been locked for a long time, they say open this peace process. You've been instructed to hold talks in the Empire, so we've stopped talking. However, 1,100 people died after the talks and instructions from the Imran. So these policies aren't right. Now, with demands like this, Mr. Prime Minister comes out... well, now, if Shamil Tayyar had said that, we would have understood if another MP had said it. Yeah, he talks about a meal that was eaten on July 17th in your group every day. He came out today and started saying something different. He said: "We have pictures. We have researched them. Do you know what the picture is? Everyone in this country knows Ishmael Beşikçi very well. İsmail Beşikçi visits Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality before the hunger strike, and Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality implements the hospitality laws, taking a small, humble lungist, İsmail Beşikçi (Ismail Beşikçi), eating a kebab in private. Now, look at the documents in the Prime Minister's hand. This is Ismail Beşikçi, an intellectual who has been imprisoned in this country for 17 years, not in Kurdish, but in conscience, who has come out and the Kurds are oppressed in this country. He is sentenced to a hundred years of punishment, 8 arrests, 17 years in prison, and the Prime Minister, İsmail Beşikçi, has been subjected to a liver that has been served to him. It's a shame that you keep saying these things, and then you turn around and insult the BDP MPs, and then you say, you know, secret shish kebabs and stuff. Well, they've been saying that ever since. As those French tourists arrive, they often describe Turkey as: "The sun, the sea, the shish kebab, raki, Turkey is very beautiful. " In this country, the Prime Minister considers hunger strikes as a French tourist. He thinks people eat shish kebabs on hunger strike, or something. Mr. Prime Minister, you should know this tradition well, you should know it. It's a tradition that when you bring up the execution today, especially when you want to execute the Ocalan, you can't do it by setting fire to dozens of young bodies when they're being brought in -- there's my confession -- we sacrifice ourselves. When they say, "You know this tradition." The Prime Minister should know better than to do anything he can't stand behind, especially in front of this tradition. That's not how these problems are solved. The Prime Minister's words of execution, especially in recent days, are to play with social tissues in Turkey again. If you want to discipline the Kurds, the Kurds have come from the past to this day, paying heavy prices, and their ancestors have been executed. So from Sheikh Sait Lord to Seyit Reza, dozens of young men from the sea were executed. They wouldn't have made a sound from those executions, yes, if they had submitted themselves to persecution, but the more unsolved killings you've committed, the more illegal killings you've committed, the more resistance you've stood before you, and especially if the execution is being discussed in this country today. Look, Mr. Prime Minister says on June 9, 2002: all obstacles to the road to the EU must be removed. Turkey must now be saved from being the slum of the EU, the death penalty must be completely removed. Again, on July 20, 2010, when he spoke about those who were executed on September 12th -- I listened, and I cried in the name of God -- in the name of God, many people in the group -- I cried too. Yeah, well, not a prime minister with liver talk, but I told him we needed a liver prime minister in this country, and I cried. And now I'm turning around, and we're still looking for a prime minister with liver, and now, 2012, there's another election. In the 2007 election, Mr. Gardenli -- he had a rope in his hand -- was talking about execution. After four years, the Prime Minister is having a talk of execution -- a rope in his hand -- and again, after June 9, 2011, on November 11, 2012, he speaks of his promise again, at work. Now, my dear friends, there is no execution in universal law. Especially if we have a Ministry there, which we call the EU process... if you really have suspended the EU process, then take that Minister immediately. You can give him new assignments, you can offer him, but this process will never come to life. Look, in the past, when the anti-terrorism laws came in, the most soldiers would intervene. To whom does the Anti-Terror Act apply? Kurds, socialists. Who? You were the opponents at one time, and you were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who became the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who At that time, for example, Basbug was saying, "Raise it up, increase it up." Now, look, where's life? From this Anti-Terror Law, increase it at the time. The Chief of the General Staff, who called it the Anti-Terror Law, is being tried for it. Those who want to bring the execution, you can swing on that rope tomorrow because, look, this country has hung its prime minister, this country has poisoned the President, this country has flown his general. Don't tell me we're in power today, we'll be fine today. The day after tomorrow, this will come to your door. So give up this execution as soon as possible, and we know that this process was created only to manipulate the agenda from time to time, because we know that the execution will not go backwards, and Mr. Prime Minister knows that, as Mr. TütEST says, a high school student knows that. So please do not disturb Turkey's agenda with the things that cannot be done. How can we stop this hunger strike together on its 63rd day? And in fact, I'm going to say a few words to Mr. Arinc. In fact, while the 2012 budget was being discussed here, he made some very important statements on the stand, and we, as our group, applauded you, despite the reaction of certain segments on our base, and if only they had come to life today, we could have applauded you here on this stand today. If our group -- if only -- had all of what you said in that process come to life, we could have supported you. Look, what do you say on that date, Mr. Arinc? You're saying that recognition of Kurdish identity is a very important issue. This is a human rights issue. I am a Kurdish person living in Turkey, and I am proud of that identity. I want to be known for this fact. When he says, we must respect it, accept it. A man is honored by his own identity. Respecting all ethnic identities... should be known that they all have human rights. The Kurd issue or Kurdish identity was not an identity that emerged three years ago, thirty years ago. The existence of Kurds has been a fact for at least a thousand years, and we can't deny it. To deny a person's identity is like to deny it, you say. ▪ Anyone who is on this land will be able to identify themselves. We'll respect that identity, we'll give you all the cultural rights, constitutional rights of that identity, we'll recognize it, we'll respect its language. You say, you're telling the truth. These are the bad consequences of denying an identity until the days when the Kurdish talk was forbidden and the subsequent unsolved murders, the death lists, were made. No, we won't deny it. You're telling the truth. I respect the identity of my BDP friends, I believe they have political rights. They should do politics all the way. In fact, you don't have the right to live in this country, as much as any of us, to know, to teach, to speak, to have a right to culture, to have an identity, to give it to you. It's our right, but we respect that. If that's what you're saying, we applaud you from the bottom of our hearts. This is not something we give out of our pocket. We thank you for it. "The people pick, the future, they do politics. You say. We will accept the existence of the ethnic identity. It's not just a favor, it's not a tip, it's not a howl. You will respect the rights of all the people you know. If his politics are wrong, we have something to say against error. Now, you're saying these things, that's true, but we Kurds are tired of these words. We want them to find life. If it's a right, it's in your conscience, so I'm pretty sure when you say it, you say what's in your conscience, what's in your brain. But what's being done to make them come to life? So, at this point today, Kurdish children have been in prison for sixty-three days demanding defence in the native language because they want to study in the native language. Your duty, Mr. Prime Minister, is to stand up and listen to the voice of conscience, Mr. Prime Minister, because you're being unfair, because these are your statements and the demands of the Kurds. If they come to life, we can make peace, but there's only one man in this country that we've all begun to fear, and this war, this political rant has corrupted all of us, the question is here. Look, the Diyarbakır Police Commissioner is making a very human request, and what does he say? For those who died on the mountain, we are not human if we cannot shed tears. Is there anything more human than that? We know this Police Commissioner very well, so he's been in Diyarbakir in the 1990s, well-known for the unsolved murders, in villages that were burned down, living the process from torture to kidnapping, but there's a self-criticism, and there's a wishful thinking. He goes out and says: "I wish this had not happened, and first it was not the land, but the people. " Now, is there anything more sacred than that? If there are no people in this land, what's the point of home, what's the point of a flag? We're all human beings, we all have to make an effort for human beings. He says, the first statement from Mr. Arinc says that he is very positive and human. By God, we went out today, too, but when we say that, Mr. Prime Minister, you can't go out in a day and say no. When he says no, no one has to back down. We're all gonna die, we're gonna go. We'll all leave these positions, these positions, and we'll all leave after a while, but the important thing is to walk around with dignity in this community. I mean, the Prime Minister isn't old enough to know everything, which means he's not at the point where he's going to scold everyone, which means he's been doing politics all day, for example, by insulting our group, our representatives, but it's rude. We can use that language. This language does not serve the solution, this language does not serve the peace. But he will insult, and his followers will come. Aman, the Prime Minister makes these things hard from time to time, so don't answer. What are we gonna do? We don't really say a lot of things in our hearts so these kids don't get nosebleeds so these people don't die. Because it doesn't contribute to the solution, and I said it the other day, and I'm telling you today: don't waste us and our future, the future of this country, whatever you may be, on a presidential election. Don't bet on nationalist waves. There's a people in this country who vote for you 50 percent, and when they vote for you, there's a people who say, "Resolve our problems." Listen to the voice of this people, and give us some empathy tonight, so that our friends, brothers, and comrades who are on this hunger strike don't die. Look, every friend of ours who fasts in Ramazan is looking forward to his evening, and if he doesn't eat twice a day, he can't fast, but these braves have been here for sixty-three days... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...for sixty-three days, these people have laid their bodies to death. I wish you'd be sensitive at this point. I'd like to share that we, as a group, don't already take this question seriously.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0209par0221	Thank you, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0210par0222	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0209par0223	On behalf of the groups, the last speaker is Mr. Idris Şahin, the Chandırı MP for the Justice and Development Party Group. Mr. Hawk, please.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0210par0226	Mr. President, I'm pointing, I'm yelling, I'm telling you... Mr. Sakik spoke of both a contortionist understanding and what I didn't say. I need an explanation, correction...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0209par0228	After the speaker, maybe?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0210par0229	Sure.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0209par0230	Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0211par0231	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the motion of the National Movement Party to open a gene for our Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Bkent Arinc. I salute your high council. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are generally considered a security-oriented problem due to the terrorism phenomenon, the violence, the destruction and the victims it causes. This is not unique to our country. The countries with terrorist experience in the world first looked at it as a security issue, but in time they had to face the fact that security is a product of the resources that support the problem of terrorism. As a matter of fact, terrorism is not just a security-oriented problem, and all the social, economic, political, psychological and cultural factors that support terrorism are used as a source of feeding by terrorist organisations in different countries. However, in countries such as Turkey, top roof problems that support terrorism are the most important aspect of the fight against terrorism. These top roof problems are the result of wrong practices and policies in the areas of democracy, freedom and the rule of law. The feudal structure, which exists in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian region, is a way of life of violence due to long-standing terrorist incidents, the fact that problems in the region have been seen as a pure security problem in the past period and because of human rights violations in that direction, the distrust between the state and the citizen is some of the underlying issues in the region today. The multidimensional approach in the fight against terrorism obliges the implementation of three areas of policy, strategy and programmes, including security-dimensional policies, socioeconomic investments and the whole of democratisation. In almost every time Turkey has improved in socioeconomic areas, it has increased its weight internationally and has accelerated its democratisation steps, the PKK has tried to block these developments by focusing on its armed actions. In this respect, the PKK has shown that it can influence the process with its actions and that it can be a co-operation partner for those who support it through difficult situations in which the country can fall in as a result of these actions. Turkey's fight against terrorism has changed, especially in terms of the PKK. This change can be discussed in three phases in general. The first stage is between 1984 and 1990, when the fight against terrorism was perceived as a simple security issue. The second phase is the period when the fight against terrorism began to be defined by a semi-unitive perspective, which is between 1990 and 1999. The third stage is the period 1999 to 2011, in parallel with the fact that the fight against terrorism is a multidimensional process, especially when improvements in the field of fundamental rights and freedoms and democratisation are increasing in relation to the integration process of the European Union. In this recent period, Turkey has been primarily determined to learn from mistakes by correcting problems, effective coordination of relevant actors under civilian initiative, and to take steps towards resolution. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, first of all, what some of us refer to as the east and southeast, some as the Kurdish, some as the terror problem, are unfortunately a fact of Turkey. The EC PARTI has decided in 2002 to follow a policy that protects the happiness, prosperity, rights and freedom of the people of the region with the awareness of the negativity caused by this problem in our society, with Turkey's integrity and unitary state structure, which will not weaken the prevention of PKK terrorism that threatens the region, permanently, with respect to all the sensitivities of society, effective and root of problems. The cultural and ethnic differences in our country are considered rich by our party. Our party sees the ability to conduct cultural activities, including literature in languages other than Turkish, as a wealth that strengthens and strengthens unity and integrity in our country, provided the official language and education are in Turkish. Despite the terror that has long maintained its presence with intense external support and cost the lives of 35,000 of our people, it is evidence that the people of the region depend on the unitary state structure, the common sense of our people, that the issue does not become an ethnic conflict, that it can be resolved as an internal issue. As the AK PARTY, we believe that our government should act as a deterrent and protector of the innocent and treat innocent with compassion. The solutions, based on the bureaucratic, authoritarian understanding of state, are only based on the logic of order and security, causing problems to deepen in the long run. In response, the approaches within the framework of democratic state understanding are met with anxiety at first, but in the long run there are consequences that strengthen the unity and integrity of our nation. Civil-military relations, the Kurdish issue, the restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms, and political and economic stability are the key topics to address in solving the terror problem in our country. The process of democratisation represents a change of mentality in terms of the state. In addition to changes in existing laws, more freer, more democratic, more progressive policies have been introduced along with the revolution of mentality in those who enforce these laws. In this framework, the security bureaucracy is the most important face of the paradigm change in Turkey. Because the region embodys the abstract existence of the state with public officials. Thus, the rights or wrongs of public officials mean the response to public perception of the state. In particular, the public approach with the public is a practical example of state-state intimacy, where institutions, such as the police, have left the wrongs of the past in places of duty. Mr. President, on 7 October 2012, Diyarbakır Police Director Recep Güven has stated that the method has been changed compared to 1991 and 1996 in the concept of the fight against terrorism, as the talks expressed by the city's active national and local press representatives have been fully considered. Over the years, it has been said that there are negative consequences due to lack of control, lack of control, lack of access to human beings, and therefore everyone has a share in the climbs. Due to the self-criticism and method of association with the people of Diyarbakır following this stage, Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc Bey, on October 8, 2012, after the meeting of the Council of Ministers, told the press that those claiming to act on behalf of the state were treating the citizens with torture and ill treatment, so he expressed satisfaction in the opinion that the people of the region had negative looks at the state, that the torture and inhumane practices had escalated terror, and that the state's public should be approached with a different concept today, that they should be embraced, educated, motivated, and interacted with the local people. However, in 2005, the police commissioner at Bahçeşehir University, who shared his thoughts with him on his criticism, had not been the same sentence because if you don't look at the end of it, if you don't pay attention to the whole speech, just by looking at this naked sentence, he may disturb and upset everyone who is fighting terrorism in Turkey and anyone who has been harmed by terrorism. In addition, in his speech at the 2011 budget meeting, he stated that denying a person's identity is deniability, that everyone on this land can express their identity freely, that we should respect everyone's identity, that the identity should be given all cultural and constitutional rights. Mr. Vice Prime Minister has said these words about 11 months ago, and as the EC PARTY Group has translated our feelings, our party has the rights to our nation in our programme. We are completely behind this idea. I don't think anyone has the right to wait for any other behavior from representatives of a political tradition whose philosophy is his own. In particular, the nationalist Movement Party's request for the opening of a gene today due to the statement expressed 11 months ago has riveted its thesis that its entire business has been watered down.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0212par0248	You watered the country, Mr. Idris.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0211par0249	Let no one doubt that such attempts to block the intensity of the agenda and legislation of the bills and proposals in Parliament will be closely followed by our nation and that the best response to keeping the High Assembly busy is that our nation will give its answer in the chest. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the speaker who has just been on the stand, address the General Assembly, as he tells our Prime Minister that he has taken his criticism of the generic talks in his mind. Mr. Orator, your number of members following your question about terrorism, which is the cause of your existence, has been shown in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0213par0251	Look the other way, how many?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0214par0252	We have our own weight, not like you!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0211par0253	So far, we know that Mr. President is on the Parliamentary General Assembly for everything he considers serious. I'm saying that it's the most important indication of how serious this request for a gene is to address it from the stand and then go out after it. Our great nation has shown that the fight against terrorism will not only be resolved by the method of fighting weapons, that rejection and denial policies do not come to a point in 90 years, and that these policies, in particular, have been removed from circulation during the AK PARTI rule period, that by the public's demands, it keeps the solution-oriented policy within its understanding of politics, by the way that it acts with the public. But still unaware of our nation's message in the polls, we are also anxious to see that there are those in Parliament who are trying to produce politics. Mr. President, as a member of the AK PARTI government in the region, in the first year we came to power under the party's programme, the implementation of the State of Emergency has been completely removed and a number of practices have been abandoned in response to terrorism have exceeded its purpose and have disturbed the people of the region. The development difference between the eastern and Southeast Anatolian region and other regions has been eliminated within ten years, at least in specific areas reduced to minimal. As an EC PARTY, serious economic projects to boost local employment have been developed, and treatment practices to relieve the victims of our citizens who have been harmed in the terrorist environment have been initiated. The attractiveness of the region for commercial and economic activities has been removed from a deadlock and sought to create a dynamic trade environment in the region, including border trade with neighbouring countries. Today, we are in an environment where freedoms can be expressed in the region, where many priorities are recognised by the government so that citizens can trade and produce. Despite the obstructions of the separatist terrorist organization, there is a ruling structure that strives to increase the welfare of the region's citizens and live as first class people and on this road avoids any expense or work. AS AK PARTY Power, just as we eliminated their denial policies, we were the first to pronounce the expression "Kurt." Let the tears of mothers be put to rest. No need to add tears to mothers' tears. We're not afraid to show the face of the state against the killing machines, we're taking all the steps. It is an expression of weakness to sabotage the steps taken by the state's institutions for peace and to provide support and moral support to PKK and CENTUDs, especially to remove any explanations made by our Deputy Prime Minister in various environments in order to break the back of terrorism. The Habur process has been completely sabotaged by the KCK and PKK terrorist organization.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0215par0259	Who set up the mobile courts?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0211par0260	There, the BDP people experienced the intoxication of victory and the attack on Silvan brought their true purpose to light. But to take a political rant out of these images, which have been hailed by our entire nation...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0216par0261	You're the government, why couldn't you predict what was going on there?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0211par0262	...and the idea that this is going to be a vote is as ugly and unacceptable as the behavior of BDP and its extensions. It's cheap to blame the state here, it's pathetic to fail the government. The Habur and Silvan process has not only undermined Oslo but also the ongoing new constitutional process.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0217par0264	Thank God there's no terror. There's a government that's surrendered to terrorism.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0211par0265	In 1999, the National Party of Actions, who made a home for state officials in their mouths when they met with Ocalan, was with Ocalan in Imran.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0218par0266	Don't slander me! Don't slander me! It doesn't suit you, don't slander me! A congressman doesn't slander.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0211par0267	...has been expressed by a preacher here on the council stand, where he was informed of the meeting.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0219par0268	You're going to give me a name who's meeting you! It's the mufter who can't prove it!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0211par0269	It was claimed here last year by Mr. Hasip Kaplan. I'm a Bizzat lawyer. I'm being very clear.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0220par0270	It's the bastard who can't prove it!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0219par0271	You tell your Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0211par0272	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have stressed in many parts of the country that they are against torture and abuse, as they have done since October 8th and since then, as they stand today, the end of the unsolved killings, the removal of the village evacuations, the act of co-operation with the people of the region; and that no one after 80 shall have to climb terrors and terrors, especially in the case of Mamak. It is highly inappropriate to claim that the security forces fighting terrorism have weakened the morale and the tenacity of security forces, which are transparent and respectable about Mr. Bkent Arinc, who have fought the trials of international youths who fought for the unity and unity of our country after September 12th 80th and fought for the values that he considered sacred. During talks held at the General Assembly on November 11, 2012, the National Movement Party Group, which has demanded that Mr. Arinc be opened a gene question about Mr. Arinc, has personally shown that they do not believe the allegations they have made, in fact, that the Supreme Assembly's motion would be withdrawn in exchange for its absence on November 11th and 12th. It is not possible for Mr. Bulent Arinc Bey, our Deputy Prime Minister, in particular, to speak to the separatist terrorist organization for morale, to inspire hope, to justify separatist ambitions, and to speak to terrorists, to present to the public as normal cases of identity and the Constitution, to present public arguments with them as ordinary cases -- the psychology, morale, determination, and the strength of our security forces fighting terror for the undistributable integrity of the country and the nation at the expense of their lives. On the contrary, Mr. Arinc is one of the leading figures of an understanding that predates human rights and freedoms, saying that the people of this country, who protects and protects and protects the democratic rights of the separatist terrorist organization, protects and protects the democratic rights of the people of the region, are the first people in this country who do not consent to bleeding even our own people's noses. This is the first article of the 57th government in particular, which is expressed by Aytun Çıray Bey. When you go to the Internet and look at it, the first article about the 57th government is this: the first three of the EU integration packages have been removed. In accordance with this package, the removal of the death penalty and the absence of the execution of PKK leader Abdullah Ocalan.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0221par0277	What did you vote for?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0211par0278	...the end of this government is 2001 Turkey's economic crisis and history as black Wednesday...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0221par0279	What did you vote for the removal of the execution? What did Prime Minister and Arinc vote on?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0211par0280	...the greatest crisis in the history of the Republic.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0221par0281	Say your vote, vote!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0211par0282	This feeling is that I will vote against your client with these thoughts, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0222par0284	Barzani is so proud of you!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0223par0285	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. Mr. Cherry, you have a brief statement to make, please.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0224par0289	Mr. Sakık, you're a mature politician I care about. There's been a misunderstanding, and it must have been, and it's not like I said, you've interpreted it differently. I'm a person who's cursed by fascist thinking. I've never had anything to do with racism or fascism. I want to tell you exactly what I told you, and I'm trying to put my party's politics on the line. Our Mr. President and the politics of our party, the pronunciation of education in the native language... are now within our red lines of education in the native language.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0225par0291	I said defense in the native language.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0224par0292	So I'll say exactly what we said. There's nothing defensive about it. Basically, as a human being and as a physician, I don't want a single person to get hurt, in a fast of death, somewhere else, nowhere. What I'm saying is that even the death fasts that no human can accept are the power here -- an attempt to commit murder under instructions to prepare the Turkish community for education in the native language, no matter what. That's what I'm saying, I didn't say anything else.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0225par0293	I said it in the native language about defense.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0224par0294	You've had some comments about the project from time to time on our project, but the agenda of this genre was not a question of discussing the Kurdish issue, the Kurdish issue, the Southeast issue, what everyone had given their own name. It was a general question about the Minister, and it was the hypocritical politics of the government and the Minister that had to be discussed here. All I'm trying to say is that this is the division point where insincere politics brings Turkey, that's what I'm trying to say. We have nothing to do with fascism or people dying. As for the matter of the runt, in fact, all the records show that the terrorism was a huge hit, creating a billion-dollar runt, terrorism, and I don't believe that some people would give up terror because of this runt. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0226par0298	Mr. Cherry, thank you. Congressmans, on behalf of the government now, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc. Here you go, Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0305	Mr. President, my dear friends, I bid you all good evening, I salute you all. I've been given speeches on behalf of groups and on behalf of the motions proposed by the National Movement Party, and I've watched them all carefully. Before we get into it, I'd like to make a brief contact with a few things. The two motions for the genes were to be discussed, one was abandoned, the one related to the TRT and Anadolu Agency. Today, I'm facing a charge that only increases the morale, determination, fighting force, or, in contrast, weakens the morale of the security forces. Why was the first motion drawn? The answer I was given when I was told: "He wants to discuss it until 7:00 p.m., our friends are planning to give it to him later. If they give it to him, I will be offended.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0228par0308	We already have.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0309	I'm sure I'll be waiting for a motion to ask about TRT and Anadolu Agency. Even though he's not serious, at least I'll be able to tell the Secretary General what these two distinguished institutions are doing, how they're doing.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0229par0310	He'd have to be a man like you to call them the proper institution.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0311	My dear friends, this matter is so important to the National Movement Party, Mr. Oğan and later Mr. Yeniçeri, who came to the stand, listed their insults in a great amount of haste, violated my personal rights with disrespect; just after finishing the Yeniçeri in 1900, when their friends congratulated him, some showed him the watch, others showed the telephones, and all Turkey was happy and satisfied by Mr. Turkkan's speech. I'm celebrating them too, whether they've done it by 1900, or if they're dead, they won't be sorry. So they've trained all of Turkey until 1900, by taking BDP's say-so. His thoughts are this: All shall hear, and all shall accept, and all shall curse at me, and all shall applaud at me, and all shall vote at them; and the speech is finished until 1900. Are you just talking here, for God's sake? Your president speaks in the group every day.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0229par0312	Why don't you release TRT at your disposal? How dare you come here and talk to me? TRT is under your command.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0313	Don't talk to me! [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] You say the same thing every day at the rally, every day at the party convention, you say everything.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0229par0316	Just give it to me. You're the one who forbids, you're the coward, you're the one who's afraid to stand up to the public!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0317	I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about people talking about the MHP.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0230par0318	Mr. Young, please. Please don't interfere, please.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0319	My dear friends, what is this all about? Do people believe in you, or do people support these policies, and do they trust this government? Guys, you insulted me, you lied beyond criticism...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0231par0321	Let's go and talk about it on TV, if you have permission.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0322	You twisted my words, but in return, I'll tell you one thing, because you both wanted to strengthen your words by giving religious references to the Chiray. And I say, 'Hasbinah God, and Nimel, and I say to you, 'Believe me.'
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0232par0324	God knows about those things, Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0325	My dear friends, as for the speech of Mr. Aytun Çiray, Mr. Aytun Çıray is someone I know very well from İzmir. I did 40 years of politics in Manisa. Manisa is very close to Izmir, and I know her very well. And I know why and where these insults come from. Because while I was doing politics in my line, he was also at Mr. Demirel's and then at the foot of Chiller. He was responsible for doing what they said at the political party. Then they put themselves up for a few months, or a few years, to the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Health.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0232par0326	Four years, four years!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0327	From that day forward, what did he say in politics, what did he do, what was his attitude towards CHP at that time, and what was his luggage left behind by the undersecretary? Don't make me talk!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0233par0328	Leave him alone, answer the allegations about you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0329	I'm just going to say one thing, and I'm just going to say one thing against your insults: you were bad then, and you were unpleasant then, and you're going on the same way today. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] And I'd like to ask Mr. President of the Republican People's Party, at this time, to strengthen your party from the base of DYP and ANAP. This is a correct strategy because DYP and ANAP base are an important basis in Turkey, but the people you elected MPs from among them are people who are losing prestige to CHP today, not just to Çiray.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0234par0333	Mind your own business!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0235par0334	Mind your own business! You're making people lose prestige.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0335	Therefore, it doesn't matter what Mr. Çiray had to say, the Izmirite knows himself very well. I think the CHP agencies are also in a hurry to find out where this man came from.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0235par0337	It's a lot to fit in, isn't it?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0338	Next semester we'll see everything; I'm not going to waste my time with this. Second, you've given your motion. There's a lot of bitter allegations in this motion, big allegations, big accusations. Well, that's the question, and the outcome is pretty much obvious, so you're saying that this guy committed a capital offense, but let's avoid it with a $10 fine. That's not the answer. You need to give me a parliamentary investigation; you'll find 5 people from CHP to reach 55.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0236par0340	You sign it, we'll give it to you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0341	All these allegations, they're not a question of size.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0236par0342	You sign it, we'll give it to you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0343	Because even you don't believe that at all. There are 12 of you in your 50-person group, and in the end, you're going to vote in favor of your client here with 12 people.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0237par0344	Don't say that at once. Answer the allegations.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0236par0345	Will you sign it, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0346	These political parties, this Parliament, have a tradition: in the government's speeches, in the political parties' statements, all of the motions in the investigations are in Parliament, all of which are behind these allegations.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0238par0347	You're doing demagogue. Answer the allegations against you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0348	I just want to put it out there. Third, the most incriminating thing you've ever accused of is what I said a year ago on this bench in budget talks. For God's sake, where have you been for a year? Where did you come up with that a year later?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0239par0350	That's when we told him.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0240par0351	That's when we told him. We thought maybe you could mend your ways.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0352	A year later, where did it come from to write this motion, how was it inspired to give you six geneors two days before your great congress, with which purpose you gave them, but I, as a Minister of 420 written and verbal questions, looked at them, and there were not a single proposal given by the MPP about these issues; there are eight proposals from CHP alone. You haven't audited me for over a year, so what happened today, what inspired you, where did you come up with a motion like that, and why are you questioning me?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0241par0353	We'll bring in the time and place.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0354	My dear friends, I honestly have no opinion of Mr. Oğan, but I saw his photos in the fight just a few days ago, but I have an opinion about our Mr. Janitori Hodja. Thanks to him, I listen to him at group meetings, at press conferences, and on a lot of TV channels, just like he does here, so I asked all my friends, what do you think of our Janicari Hodja? We don't understand much of what you're saying, but it relaxes us. I thank you. At least in CNN, when I watch the others, I don't feel a grudge; how beautifully you jump from branch to branch, but you relax, thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0242par0356	We'll comfort you, we'll comfort you, don't worry!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0357	My dear friends, yes, you will have patience, I hope you will be subjected to slander. Divine justice will embarrass you, I believe. What right have you to mock my tears? What right do you have to make yourself material by cutting the head off of my words and the end of it? Isn't it about morality, dignity, and all the meaning that you understand from what you're talking about? Are we kids? Our political lives are clear. He fled to Bursa. You say he was sent from Bursa. It happens at every political party. My 10 fellow ministers have been nominated from other regions. For forty years, I was a politician in Manisa. I was nominated for a scholarship. Manisa didn't embarrass me, she raised the game 100 grand. I went to Bursa, and he didn't embarrass me, and he increased the game to 320 thousand, and he came near to 970,000. But in both counties, in Manisa, and in Bursa, the number of MPs was missing, and you stayed behind CHP. Therefore, my personality, the corporate personality of the EC PARTY, the vote rate reached 50 per cent in the country should tell you something. Dear friends, yes, these conversations have been made. Everyone knows why it was done, how it was done. I, now, am not worried that television isn't broadcasting this, but I stand by my words.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0243par0360	You're already on the networks every day.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0361	I'm a man who falls but goes straight. I stand by every word, every step I take, every word I say, and I answer with honor.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0244par0363	That's not what the Prime Minister says, Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0364	My dear brothers, you don't know how terror comes from where, where, how it comes from, how it has come from, what mistakes have been made in the struggles in the past, how many times eight or ten people have increased their actions to this day.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0245par0365	Those who say that make politics at your party.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0366	My dear friends, the numbers you gave me in your time were 2001 and several months ago. Why don't you ever talk about the '90s? What was 90? In '91, in '92, in '93, in '94, how many martyrs did we give? How many martyrs did we give after 84? You weren't there then. You came at a comfortable time in 99, because they had packed Ocalan and delivered him to Turkey, and he was tried and convicted, and the organization entered into silence. You're making yourself proud of a year or two of inaction. Is that something to brag about?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0246par0367	Four years, four years!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0368	Dear friends, why is there no mention of before 2001? Don't you read what's written, don't you even look at statistics? How did this organization grow, how did it get macheted, how did it become political demands?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0247par0369	Thanks to you!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0370	Why don't we learn from 78, 79, or later, political, social, social events? It's in the transcripts of what I talked about a year ago. What I said in these reports, Mr. Sakk, my friend just told me. Mr. Sakık, I congratulate you, not because of your speech, but because of your fear of Cherry. Because he came here, and he had to apologize. Now, you're criticizing me for this conversation. Of course, Mr. Gardenie was critical, and you'll be critical...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0248par0374	So, Minister, what was wrong with my speech?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0249par0375	I've never seen anything to be afraid of, a gentleman's man...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0376	Yes, I saw how you stumbled when you explained it here, you were hardly making the sentence. My dear friends, it's clear that we're looking at the following issues differently -- the time we just read here -- is down to eight minutes. Look, if I just take a sentence, you'll see how conflicted we are with the opponent. Friends, the recognition of Kurdish language is a very important issue. This is a human rights issue. On the contrary, recognition of Kurdish identity is a very bad subject. This is not a human rights issue, says MHP. When a person in Turkey says, "I am Kurd, I want you to know me by this fact." I said, "We have to respect it, we have to accept it." A person who lives in Turkey can't say I'm proud of myself. He can't ask me to know him. We don't have to respect that, he says. When we take matter...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0250par0379	You're lying, you're pretending.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0227par0380	Don't get excited, sir, don't get excited! That's what you're saying.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0251par0381	You're lying!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0252par0382	You're lying. Do we have a saying like that?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0253par0383	Half the religion is mercy, mercy!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0254par0384	Are you saying that? May God have mercy on you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0253par0386	May God have mercy on you!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0254par0387	May God grant you wisdom, and may God grant you life, and may God grant you guidance.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0253par0389	May God have mercy on you a thousand times, and may He grant you a blessing, and may He give you a measure.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0254par0390	Amen. I say 'Amen' for myself, you say 'Amen' for me, you say 'Amen' and you say 'Amen' for me.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0253par0391	Come on, you say the same things we don't say.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0254par0392	Get out of here! Don't come here with 10 people behind you. Stand by your signature.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0253par0393	Do you have a conscience? Do you have a conscience?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0254par0394	Get out of here, get out of here! You made the country what it is.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0255par0395	Do we have a saying like that, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0253par0396	I don't know if that's a...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0254par0397	You've brought such an understanding, such a thought, to this day.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0256par0399	Please... please... Congressmans, let's hear it.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0254par0401	Dear friends, look, in return for all of this, to moralize the terrorist organization, to destroy the psychology of the security forces fighting terrorism, I am returning these allegations to you exactly. If you're sincere, bring in a congressional investigation.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0257par0402	Sign it, we'll get it, sign it!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0254par0403	Why should I sign it? You're claiming it. Here, get your signature from Aytun Çiray.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0257par0404	You, you! It's what you want.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0254par0405	Get out of here! My dear friends, I would like to demonstrate the insensitivity of their motion a year later. Our words there are a fact that Turkey is living.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0258par0407	The Prime Minister disagrees with you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0254par0408	We're fighting terrorism, we're determined, but we have to embrace both our Kurdish brothers and Kurdish people and our citizens who have made their identity known in this way.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0259par0409	Is Barzani for him...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0260par0410	You've made the terrorist organization a representative of the Kurds.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0254par0411	As long as you don't separate the innocent Kurdish people from their organization and actions, as long as you treat every Kurdish person as a terrorist, this fire continues to burn and you burn with it.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0260par0413	As a representative of you Kurds, you've dealt with the terrorist organization, you're putting Kurds in the thing of imperialism.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0254par0414	My dear friends, until today...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0260par0415	Unfortunately, you have brought the PKK as a representative of the Kurds!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0254par0416	Why don't you go ahead and talk some sense into him?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0260par0417	They're looking for...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0254par0418	What things have happened to us, what have not happened to us, I hope we will talk about them at a comfortable time, but we see that a concept that has been brought to the fight against terrorism since the '80s, which has been accepted by many who have failed, has achieved much better results today in a different way. You must have seen these photos on TV... when the General Staff made a statement today. Captured weapons, bombs, devices, commanders' surveillance in the hills with their troops, these are...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0260par0420	Of course you don't see martyr funerals!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0254par0421	My dear friends, what a downer the Joint Chiefs of Staff is explaining the consequences of a two-day war on terror. I'm not saying all this out of pride, just so those who claim that the security forces are down. In the face of captured weapons, captured explosives, preventive actions, and others, you need to rethink what kind of morale has been demoralized.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0261par0422	Ten years later, you came to your senses!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0254par0423	Praise be to God, everyone involved in security with his military and police today, starting with intelligence, is doing their best and getting results. The mistakes we've made in the past are no longer repeated today. On the one hand, we embrace our people, starting with their cultural rights, and since their identity is an honor to Mr. Baykal and Kilicdaroglu, since we didn't give this honor out of our pocket, why do we have to go through this as a matter of human rights? I would personally like to ask Mr. Kilicdaroglu if I could put his speech in front of him and ask him if he would share it, and if I had the chance, I would ask him. Let him decide for himself whether there is a fascist thought in his new CHP understanding, in the opinion of Mr. Sakık. Dear friends, we, thankfully, think that social peace in our country will be made up of individuals who will embrace each other in the nation's unity, no matter what ethnic element lives in this country. Is Laz gonna be in it, or is it gonna be in Bosniak, or is it going to be Arab? Of course it will. Remember, while we're broadcasting in Kurdish, we're broadcasting in Arabic again with Kurmanci, Zazakii, Sorani, TRT El Turkey. How can there be a publication in Arabic because of all this, brother? Where did that come from? It's all about publishing in Kurdish. That's a right. Because we didn't do this in the past, people in that area were watching Iranian radios on one side and Armenia TV on the other. Now they're watching 28 radio and television broadcasts that broadcast exclusively in the local area. It contributes to social peace, not segregation. So I think that every step we take in terms of democratization and freedom is an opportunity not to have a fight and chaos in the country, but to get to know each other better, to live with the reasons that make each other exist. Remember, every time I go to Diyarbakır, every time I go to Şırnak, every time I hug my brothers there, I put my Muslim identity first, because remember, the conquest of Malazgirt is 1071, and Diyarbakır is conquered by the Islamic armies of 639. Before the door of Anatolia was opened, Diyarbakır was honoured by Islam. That's how it is in Şırnak, and Batman is, and those people are clean, noble people who have never rebelled against their state, fought, and died in the embrace of Çanakkale. We said it was wrong to see them as terrorists, it was a foolish thought, it wasn't the way to fight terrorism. My dear friends, you know that since 1987, we have completed the 15-year-old state-of-the-art practice, dated November 30, 2002.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0262par0427	Yeah, don't lie to me. I've been...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0254par0428	Could it not have been that in the extraordinary period of Turkey, the tortures, the unsolved killings, the migration of thousands of people, the evacuation of villages, the deserts, the abandonment of pedestrians, the terrorism, has been stirred up or raised? Isn't denial of a man's identity a reason to have difficulty in his representation?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0263par0429	Terror has no legitimacy, do not justify terrorism. You're betraying democracy, you're betraying law.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0254par0430	Can't economic lag be another reason? Is there no other reason to be deceived? Torture, Diyarbakır prisons, any other charges could have led you to mutiny?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0263par0431	Didn't the guy who canceled the green card because he had cancer have motive?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0254par0432	Given that terrorism is a consequence, shouldn't we be looking at those reasons to count all of this and to get a definitive result in the fight against terrorism?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0263par0433	It makes terrorism look legit. What a mindset!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0264par0434	Then you're saying the motive for terrorism is justified.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0263par0435	So teachers who can't be appointed should be terrorized?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0265par0436	So, of course, you have to understand the words of the Diyarbakır Police Commissioner.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0266par0437	Mr. Prime Minister doesn't feel the same way about the Diyarbakır Police Commissioner.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0265par0438	When you take the whole conversation, of course, he's going to fight terrorism, he's going to fight the terrorist, but of course he has to think about how he's being led down this road, how he's being tricked, how he's being shot. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, may I?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0267par0441	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Sorry, sir, we're running out of time. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0268par0444	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0267par0445	Mr. Slim, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0268par0446	Mr. President, Mr. Arinc teased a member of our group by saying that politics is a turncoat, and he also said that another member of our group is afraid of another member of parliament. He insulted the corporate personality of our party and the member of our group, so if you'll excuse me, I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0269par0447	You insult me every day. You insult me every day.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0267par0448	Here you are, in two minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0268par0451	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm speaking as someone who's never changed a party in his life, but we have friends in this Parliament who change parties, you have friends, we have parties, we have parties.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0270par0453	It's important to change minds.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0268par0454	But you don't have to change parties to be a political quitter. For example, if you speak differently in opposition for the basic law, you are a political turncoat. For example, if you tell your monopoly workers to go up the street and then go out into the street and stop talking when they're beaten, you're a political turncoat. If the Prime Minister interferes with your first exit with the Diyarbakır Police Commissioner, your defection will be registered. The European Union is a Christian club until the whiteness of your hair falls into your hair. Then, at your age, when you were in power, we entered the European Union. In Turgutlu, those who say that we have met with the PKK are dishonest, despicable. If they say that you have spoken to them, then it is also a political turncoat. Mr. Arinc, you know very well.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0271par0455	That's a little harsh!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0268par0456	When it comes to fear, we -- not another party, not another friend -- were we afraid of one of those people -- we would be afraid of your 326...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0272par0457	Get out of here!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0268par0458	We were afraid of your government power, of the cops you sent us, of the phones you listened to, of the financiers you sent to the businessmen. Mr. Arinc, we're not afraid of a congressman or the AKP Group, we're afraid of one God. [[The voices of the AKP's rows, "Aa!]] Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0273par0463	Thank you. Mr. Yeniçeri, come in. Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0274par0468	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to make one very clear first.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0275par0469	Relieve it again, Hajji, comfort them again! And relax Mr. Bulent!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0273par0470	Guys, let's hear it, please.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0274par0471	There is not a single sentence of insult in my text against the Minister. I can't make that kind of thing up to myself, nor will my manners allow it. I said that at the point where the country came in today, with statements that Mr. Minister said that the place was taken back and placed in place, that the terrorist organization was really created, in fact, an image that revealed its right, its legitimacy, its legitimacy, its legitimacy, and that's true, and that's how everyone perceives it.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0276par0472	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0274par0473	This may be wrong for you, but you'll see a stream. So when you sit there, you have a habit of reading everything backwards. Now, Mr. Secretary, I'm very clear: in Oslo, you go, you meet, and then you accuse the MPP. You go and see them, and you say, "You, MHP, do not separate terrorists from the people, but sees everyone as terrorists." For whom did you meet with those terrorists in Oslo? Did you speak on behalf of the Kurdish people? You spoke to them as their representative? If you didn't meet as their representative, why did you? So you have a problem there, I'll tell you that. You're saying: "Here, I told you. It's a bit funny to leave, and I thank him, but the Newcar is jumping from branch to branch." I'm not jumping from branch to branch, you're jumping from tongue to tongue. That's what I said.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0277par0477	▪ Do you call it multilingual?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0274par0478	So, please, when we're doing the evaluations, let's evaluate them accordingly. Then, why are you offended? You've been running the country for ten years, and you know where the country comes from. I mean, there's an eyebrow over your eyes. No one's gonna say it? Why are you so upset? I expected you to have a little patience. Mr. Mehdi Eker doesn't have the patience. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I mean, if you're too stereotyped and you're moving through patterns, I mean, literally, there's no way that anything positive ever comes out. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I'm not going. What are you gonna do?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0278par0484	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Cherry, please, lastly...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0279par0487	Congressmans, Mr. Arinc has not responded to any of my remarks. On the contrary, because of what I said, he tried to protect himself with aggression. That's what being a coward is all about. That means you're terrified, Mr. Arinc. The exposure of your true face, the mirror in your face, drove you crazy. Your wax's spilled. I spilled your polish, and you're so uncomfortable with me for him. Now, I don't know how long you've been taking refuge with the PKK, but I just want to say this. Instead of responding to criticism, they insulted everyone from head to toe. Why should I be afraid of a gentleman politician like Mr. Sırrı Sakık? He came, he criticised my opinion. (AK PARTY RINGING, THROATING) All right?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0280par0489	President, they're provoking us!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0279par0490	Look, even this one isn't moral, even this one shows your true intentions. Your real... As for the Undersecretary, I was undersecretary for four years. I worked with seven ministers, three prime ministers, including Erbakan -- he was a member of the government at the time -- and I was proud to work with Demirel. But by covering up Cirler's corruption files, they went under their skirts, and I didn't.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0281par0492	Wow, now he's under the skirts of the PKK!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0279par0493	Dear friends, now, if you have anything to say to the party changers...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0282par0494	He can't stop going anywhere!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0279par0495	I am proud of being a CHP member to the end, of defending the unity and unity of Turkey, of Ataturk, of the founding values. (AK PARTY desks ▪Bravo[!But my dear friends, I am not tired of being Aaron and I am not here to be your wife. I didn't destroy 11 trillion of a party and become president of your party. I want to do politics with honor. My respects to all of you. (Applause)
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0283par0497	Good for you, you praised Demirel. That's enough.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0284par0498	Thank you, Mr. Cherry. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0285par0500	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0286par0501	Who's talking, the Aarons, the Croesus, which one?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0284par0502	Friends, please... please, let's keep the peace.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0286par0503	We speak to Aaron, and the Aarons come.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0284par0504	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0287par0505	Mr. President, both Mr. Secretary and the AKP Group Speaker have accused our motion of being illegitimate. This is an attack on our group, a taunt. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0284par0506	Here you go. Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0287par0510	Mr. Arinc, Mr. Secretary, Mr. AKP MPs, as a result, don't turn this into a cockfight. (AK PARTY RINGS) Please listen... As a result...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0288par0512	What disrespect is this?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0289par0513	Let's hear it.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0287par0514	You've been running the country for ten years, you've been running the country alone for ten years. Doesn't it bother you that the results came today? Doesn't it bleed your consciences? Dear friends, by the end of September, we've given 66 martyrs in one month. Just two days ago, we lost a helicopter on the way to the operation, and we gave 17 martyrs. Since Mr. Arinc spoke on this bench last year, our number of martyrs has been nearly 130. Dear friends, has this incident, which we call ethnic separatism, been reduced since you were in power; has it increased, has it grown or has it not? Is Turkey more united today?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0290par0517	Is that a comparison?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0287par0518	Dear friends, the main reason for these situations is the false statements of the statesmen who run the country at the wrong time, in the wrong place. These statements give someone an acquish, give them a right. He's using it to ask for a step ahead. Now defence in the native language, then education in the native language. This is the right. But if the price of this state is paid in blood after a national struggle and a unitary state, a national state is established in this country, if you make it multilingual, multinational, you become separatist. That's why we, Mr. Arinc... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I refer it to your consciences.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0291par0522	Mr. Chancer, thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0292par0523	Mr. President, there's a matter of...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0291par0524	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0292par0525	Just here, no...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0291par0526	Come in, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0293par0527	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0291par0528	Mr. Sakek, I beg you...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0294par0529	I regret to inform you that the Minister's statement that legitimizes and justifys the PKK terrorist organization is an instigator of terrorism. (AKP rows) Unfortunately, I'm afraid...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0291par0530	He's out of control, your words are in control.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0294par0531	...he says: "He shot the soldier, he shot the policeman, he was right." There's the mentality, this mentality, that won't fight terrorism.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0295par0532	That's how you look at it.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0291par0533	Mr. Vural, thank you. He's in custody, sir. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, regarding his staff...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0296par0536	Mr. President, may I make a statement?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0291par0537	Tell me from there, where you are, I've opened it.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0296par0538	So, what privileges do they have to talk about on that stand?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0291par0539	One second, sir, one second, let me explain. They responded on behalf of the group. Are you going to answer on behalf of the group, or is it personal?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0296par0540	My two eyes, at the hour of the broadcast, you took away our rights, and gave them to MHP. You don't have that kind of authority.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0291par0541	No one has denied you your rights, but it was the right of Mr. Chiray. Two minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0296par0545	Mr. President, dear friends, now, the Court does not have that right. So in the ranking, sir, you can't give the BDP, the CHP's rights to the MPP, there's no such thing. If that's the way it is, the groups can sit among themselves, give up on each other, but everyone knows this song's cunning, and you've done it wrong here once. Second, dear friends, the problem is here again, education in the native language, defence in the native language. Is that a right or not? If it's a right, no one gives a ring out of their own father's pocket. You're going to talk about the Republic together, the country together, but why are Kurdish teenagers in prison? While I was criticizing the CHP teacher, you are a social democratic party... and I am correcting it, and I have not threatened anyone. I mean, if I want to respect myself, I respect all my friends, but if you come out here, if you tell me that an education in a native language will divide the country, there will be betrayal, I swear to God, I'll tell you those things. Why are these people in prison? They sleep for their own language. They're politicians like me, none of whom have ever resorted to arms.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0297par0547	Didn't they deal with guns?
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0296par0548	No, no... look, they've all been taken into custody - 10,000 people, and they've been arrested -- most of them are our mayors who have been taken under the name of the KCK operation, who have been arrested under that name, and are our city legislators, MPs, mayors, mayors of the county and districts; they're people who have received the approval of the people as well as you, and they're there for their native language. Still, to identify this with terrorism is to avoid the problem. I say again, Mr. Arinc, I wish you'd said that I congratulated you on your comments. I'd be happier, because I made important points. This is where we speak of things that may have passed through your hearts but you have not been able to speak. That's why... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We'd be happy if you'd said thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0298par0556	Congressmans, the discussion on the gene question has been completed. Now, there's a motion for an open vote on whether or not to bring up the question. I'll have the motion read and call the signers. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose an open vote on Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc, given by the National Movement Party. Ali Halaman, Adana? Here. Oktay Vural, İzmir? Here. S. Nevzat Don't Be Afraid, Isparta? Here. Scholar Light, Kütahya? Here. Mehmet Shandır, Mersin? Here. Sadir Durmaz, Yozgat? Here. Reşat Right, Slap? Here. Mehmet Erdogan, Muğla? Here. Ali Longırmak, Aydın? Here. Lütfü Türkkan, Bigeli? Here. Sinan Okan, Iğdir? Here. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye? Here. Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu, Izmir? Here. Rusar Demirel, Eskişehir? Here. Ali Öz, Mersin? Here. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana? Here. Amin Çınar, Kastamon? Here. Adnan Safik Ugly, Hatay? Here. Muharrem Varlı, Adana? Here. Münir Kutluata, Sakarya? Here. Congressmans, I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic voting device: those who agree... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to open the vote with the electronic device, and I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament (11/17) I submit a clear vote on whether or not the primary motion for the geneor will be taken into consideration: [[x]] Mustafa Hamarat Muhammad Bilal Macit In this way, the motion for a gene is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0299par0597	Mr. President, 276 didn't get the vote of confidence, Mr. Arinc! No 276!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0298par0598	The majority of 256 is either from the current 306...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0300par0599	There's no trust in 256, the AKP Group has no confidence!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0299par0600	256, no vote of confidence!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0300par0601	The House has given 256 confidences, which means they don't.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0299par0602	Dear Arinc, there is no 276, sir! No vote of confidence! (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0301par0604	That is, of course, a motion to investigate.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0302par0605	Bring a motion for an investigation; let's look at 276.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0303par0606	I'm sending it to you, I'm opening your signature; take five ministers with you.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0302par0607	276...
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0303par0608	No, you are the one who wants to be.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0304par0609	Mr. Arinc, you didn't get the vote of confidence.
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0303par0610	I hope you'll give me your autograph. May I remind you, Mr. Secretary, that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, I'll send it to you on blessed Friday! Ariç has fallen; he has no vote of confidence! No trust!
tbmm-2012-11-13sit02spe0305par0612	According to the decision taken, (11/15) Minister of Forest and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu (11/18) Prime Minister of Development Cevdet Yilmaz (11/20) and National Education Minister Omer Dinçer (11/21) are the main ministers of Science, Industry and Technology Nihat Ergün, to discuss the opening of their geneor for Wednesday (14 November 2012). I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
