tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mr. Mevlüt Sergeantoglu, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. Cemil Cicek, has now arrived at Parliament. I welcome them in the name of our great Assembly. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I call Mr. Mevlüt Sergeant-oglu to the stand, according to the decision taken Thursday's 5/1/2012 Union of the General Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, I give my regards to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where I am a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and today I am honored to address it as President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I hereby congratulate you on the new year of our dear President and Congressman friends with my sincerest wishes. Today, I am proud and happy to be the first Turkish MP to lead the Parliamentary Assembly, the political platform of the Council of Europe, which has been a member since its establishment in 1949. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I am also happy and honored to make one of the last official visits to my country, Turkey, of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which I was elected on 25 January 2012 and will complete on 23 January 2012. As we approach the end of our Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe today, I will be able to share with you an assessment of our activities in Europe and neighbouring areas as we approach the end of our presidency. The European Council of Europe, established in 1949 by European countries, where democracy, human rights and the rule of law are held around common principles and values to prevent new wars from taking place at the end of World War II, is the only Pan European institution to represent 47 European countries and 800 million European citizens throughout Europe. On August 9, 1949, Turkey was among the founding members of the Council of Europe, revealing its commitment and forward vision to these universal principles. Over the course of these 60 years, Turkey has made significant strides in terms of the values and principles of the Council of Europe's basic building stone, in which the Council of Europe -- until that year -- is a country controlled by the Control Commission -- has been particularly a turning point in the process, especially in which Turkey's Grand National Assembly and our government have implemented reforms, and through the effective work that we did together in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which has led me to a turning point in the process of the European Council of Parliament. I, on this occasion, thank you once again for our great House, in the presence of our Speaker. We too strive to promote the reputation and credibility of our position in Europe, as well as the recognition of our contributions and achievements. As a Turk, we strive to make maximum contributions in our time, with the understanding of tolerance and reconciliation that our rich culture has taught us. Mr. President, dear friends, since the establishment of the Council of Europe, democracy, human rights and rule of law have played a leading role in developing and improving principles across Europe and beyond. After the fall of dictatorships in Europe in the 1970s, he played an important role in developing democracies, especially in southern European countries, such as Greece, Spain and Portugal. In the 1990s after the Berlin Wall fell, it also played a crucial role in the establishment and strengthening of democracies in Eastern and Central European countries and played a major role in European politics. For this reason, the Council of Europe has often been referred to as the school of democracy, or the transition chamber to the European Union. However, the Council of Europe has become a standard-building authority far beyond such definitions that contributes to the establishment of common values and principles. The European Convention on Human Rights, signed by all countries a year after its establishment, is the European Court of Human Rights, which is also founded at Strasbourg. The European Court of Human Rights has contributed a great deal to the values the contract has established, especially with decisions or convictions, and has played an important role in bringing these values to a far greater extent. In addition, the Council of Europe has signed more than two hundred contracts to create a single legal area across Europe in all areas that remain under the European Council's mandate so far. For example, the Convention on Violence Against Women and Anti-House Violence and Avoidance was written by Turkey's efforts as chairman of the European Council of Ministers' Committee on the Council of Europe, and it was also signed in Istanbul as the term presidency of Turkey ended. I'd like to say with great pleasure that Turkey is the first country to sign this contract. Again, the first to ratify this contract was our Grand Assembly. This important step was welcomed by the Council of Europe. Of course, the European Council's mechanism for human rights protection and development alone is not the Human Rights Convention or the Court. In addition to the European Court of Human Rights, it has contributed greatly to the development of democracy, human rights and the rule of law in Europe, especially with other mechanisms, control mechanisms, aid mechanisms. One of these mechanisms is the Venice Commission. The Venice Commission is not only providing this kind of support for member states of the Council of Europe today, but on the other hand, such as Kyrgyztan, Chile, like South Africa, Mexico, from every continent of the world, such as Japan, and these countries are also taking advantage of that support. Again, the Committee for Anti-Corruption, such as the Anti-Corruption Organization, has also played a crucial role in protecting and developing human rights in Europe, including many other CPT institutions such as the Anti-Corruption Organization, GRECO. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which we chair, particularly with the Commission of Control, oversees, and encourages whether these member states have fulfilled their obligations in this sense, but the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is not the sole task of controlling them. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is a legislative body consisting of all kinds of ideology, different languages, different religions and our friends from different cultures representing 800 million people throughout Europe, and makes decisions for member states and recommendations for the Committee of Ministers. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe also elects judges of all member states to the Court of Human Rights. And I wanted to emphasize that here in particular. Of course, I just stressed that the Council of Europe ruled out Turkey in 2004. I also stressed that this is an important turning point that paves the way for our presidency. Of course, dismantling the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is a very important achievement for a member country, but as with any success, it brings important responsibilities together. While the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe removes a country from control, of course it registers that the country fulfills certain obligations, but also reminds it of its responsibilities and obligations that it must fulfil in the process. As a matter of fact, that was the case in 2004 with Turkey's 1380th decision on Turkey. On the one hand, the Council of Europe has registered Turkey's record of major reforms, its fulfillment, but on the other hand, it has demonstrated a twelve-point text on Turkey's obligations that it must follow. Of course, after this process, Turkey has taken significant steps to fulfill its obligations, but my dear friends, especially among these steps, it is necessary to take new steps today, and we need to underline that. Of course, in the last two years, the constitutional amendment to the referendum, especially on September 12th, has established a basis for further steps, creating constitutional grounds, but today is especially known to all of us that Turkey needs a very serious judicial reform. We can see that, unfortunately, he is currently on trial, in the European Court of Human Rights, in the number of cases against Turkey and in decisions against Turkey. Unfortunately today, Turkey, we must admit, dear friends, we are happy to be president on one hand, but on the other, Russia and Poland are the country with the most files on the back. Earlier, it was the 2nd after Russia, and now there is a relative reduction in the number of files, but we can't say that's still enough, but especially when we look at decisions against Turkey over the past year -- one hundred and seventy-four decisions -- unfortunately, Turkey is number one in this regard, and that's not to be boasted of.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0003par0027	But that's not what the Prime Minister says, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0002par0028	Thus, Turkey needs a comprehensive constitutional reform besides this judicial reform. In that respect, today, under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we care about the Commission, which our parties have formed under the leadership of our President. We hope that there will be positive results from this, that this great Parliament will be restored to the advanced and civil democracy that the Turkish people deserve first and foremost, with a new constitution, and with this new civil and democratic constitution, Turkey's power will grow, on the other hand, in other international organisations, especially the Council of Europe. In the process, I would like to stress that we are ready to give Turkey all the support we have as the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly and again as the Venice Commission, and I would like to stress the importance of Turkey's cooperation with the Venice Commission in this process. Mr. President, very dear friends, we've all observed that in these two years as president of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, there have been intense developments both in Europe and around the world. As we all closely followed, 2011 witnessed historic developments in the Arab world, where the struggles to transition to democracy took place. There have been significant developments in the neighbouring countries of Europe. Freedom, reform and social justice have begun the process, which is known as Arab spring, by the will of the peoples who have come to the streets with demands of freedom, reform and social justice. Of course, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Council of Europe followed this process very closely, not only because of the concerns that the developments here would affect Europe, but also because of our historical, social and cultural ties to the countries in this region. In the meantime, Turkey's principled position and its captivative approach, which supports the legitimate demands of the region's peoples, has also been appreciated around the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe, as I have just told you, helped countries in South Europe in the 70s, as it helped countries in the 90s, helped countries in the East and Central Europe, and tried to support countries in our time, especially in the Arab spring, in their efforts towards democracy in the region. Basically, as chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we had a vision a year before the Arab spring began. To strengthen democracies in these countries, we have developed a new membership status so that these countries can integrate into the Council of Europe and into the values of Europe, which we call the Partnership Status for Democracy. Of course, seeing the developments in this Arab spring, the initiative launched by the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly a year before this spring began was actually appreciated by everyone.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0004par0033	Was there support for the intervention?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0002par0034	Of course, we also made historical decisions in our time in the Council of Europe, and for the first time in the history of the Council of Europe, we made Morocco a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in June. We immediately joined the first General Assembly, and in October, the Palestinian National Assembly, and our Palestinian brothers, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Starting in January, our Palestinian MP friends will fight for the rights of Europe or Palestine under the same roof as us. Thus, our membership, or rather the membership of countries, is not limited to Palestine, and again to Morocco, but to other countries in that region, we continue to contact them. We supported Tunisia for democratic elections in Tunisia. Now we expect the same request to come from Tunisia. We went to Algeria, we encouraged Algeria. We didn't just encourage the Middle East or North Africa, we went to Central Asia, because Central Asia is in it. Again, we encouraged Kazakhstan, we encouraged Kyrgyztan, and we received the results. Now, as the third country, we have received official request from Kyrgyztan, and we have processed it. Hopefully, in June or at the latest in October, we'll make a member of the Kyrgyztan Parliament and the Parliament of the Council of Europe in this matter, as well as all the necessary support. Other developments in Syria, Libya, Egypt, are being closely monitored. With the initiative of our friends in these countries, we have a number of decisions and recommendations, reports that may be a guide. Hopefully, we'll have better contact with these countries in the future. Of course, in the Council of Europe, it is not just the neighbouring areas that the Council of Europe is interested in. Outside neighboring areas, Europe has also had great changes in itself, opportunities have arisen, and problems have arisen. In the framework of these problems and opportunities, we would like to briefly, as Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and to share with you what we do as president. Since being elected chairman of the AKPM (AKP) on 25 January 2010, we have been working hard to create politics, again to create solutions to the problems facing 8 million European citizens from 47 countries, and to increase the reputation and credibility of the institution we head. Of course, there are countries in Europe that are also experiencing institutional problems, political blockages. To help these countries in particular, we have made great efforts with our friends to resolve problems with the Council of Europe, or to overcome the crisis of trust, or to address the problems of member states that are having problems among themselves, or to take reassuring steps. We went to Albania, which led to the beginning of negotiations to end the boycott there, and we succeeded. Again, there is a serious political blockage in Moldova from the presidential election or not being elected, but at least now we've led to serious negotiations between the parties. One of the countries we care about most has been Bosnia and Herzegovina, because Bosnia, who has been unable to form the government for about 15 months, is a country that cannot fulfil its obligation to the Council of Europe by failing to make constitutional changes. We've contributed to solving both problems, I've visited Bosnia and Herzegovina three times in particular, and we've had significant contributions to reaching an agreement on the establishment of different political parties after our last visit. We visited other countries in the Balkans, we visited Serbia, we visited Bulgaria, we visited Romania, we visited all Balkan countries. Meanwhile, we followed Kosovo very closely. Again, when Kosovo was discussed as the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we made a decision to invite our Kosovo MP friends, and we accepted as the Council of Europe that those friends had at least had a say in matters related to Kosovo. We said problems between countries, we said countries with problems between them and the Council of Europe, Russia is the head of them. Russia is a very important member, but there is a crisis of trust in its relations with the Council of Europe. In our time, we have made great efforts to overcome this crisis of trust, and we have contributed greatly to the normalisation of relationships. Likewise, there were similar problems between the Council of Europe and Azerbaijan; there were serious problems between Ukraine and the Council of Europe; there were serious issues between Armenia and the Council of Europe, and we would like to stress here that we have been contributing greatly to our objective position in dealing with these problems without a binary standard. But we have established a commission, especially under the roof of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where the results of the Russian-Georgia war, human rights violations, again, Turkey, are also actively concerned about its relations with Armenia, but mainly because of our ties with brother Azerbaijan, we are now actively conducting these commissions to defend the rights of the fugitives, the rights of the immigrants, and to take steps that are more closely related to us. Again, in Cyprus, we formed the Cypriot Platform to provide dialogue between young politicians on both sides, and we brought together more than 50 young political friends, who, by inviting them both in Cyprus, in the middle region and in Istanbul, have contributed greatly to the taking of international organisations, on the other hand, to take steps to build confidence among those young people. I would also like to bring to you one issue: The only international organisation within the European institutions that has a member of our fellow MP from the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus today is the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Again, dear friends, of course, problems are not limited to problems between countries or countries. Today, there are serious problems involving all of Europe's inhabitants in Europe. Today, we all see what a serious economic crisis Europe is going through, but what really concerns us is how these economic crises affect people's daily lives, how they fundamentally affect human rights, and how democratic institutions shake them from the root. Therefore, I would like to stress that we also have guiding decisions and advice decisions in this regard, although we are not an economic institution, we need to care about this human rights dimension. In particular, we adopted reports on the effects of the state's excessive debt burden on democracy and human rights, the economic crisis on immigrants and women on the Council of Europe. Again, the last time we held a meeting of the Permanent Commission in Edinburgh was with our friends on the effects of the crisis on Young People. Of course, in such an environment where Europe is facing economic crises, Turkey, which is the world's 16th-largest largest economy of Europe, is in its right place as a safe haven in Europe, with its dynamic and stable economy. On the other hand, valuable lawmakers, of course, economic crises are temporary, but the biggest problem that threatens Europe today is increasing racism, alien hostility, intolerance, anti-Semitism and Islamaphobia. Unfortunately, today we began to see the negative consequences of this dangerous increase and the concrete consequences in European countries. Today, not only do racist parties have increased the number of seats, but we are very concerned today that even moderate parties are engaged in the rhetoric and action used by racist parties in order to regain support for racist parties. Today, last year, we see the very negative consequences of the deportation of Roma by some countries, the closing of their camps, the bringing down restrictions on people's beliefs in those countries, the taking of the ban on minarets in a canton in Switzerland. Likewise, when we look at the event in Norway, when we look at the event in Belgium, when we see that 9 Turks were killed by the Neonazis in Germany; when we see an Italian person kill and commit suicide in Italy, we now see what extent this has reached, and this concerns us even more. Of course, as Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we did not remain silent during this process, but also show our reactions. We've made decisions and recommendations. We've also accepted guide reports. In the same way, we held high-level conferences in Strasbourg, published declarations. All countries have agreed, but it seems that these decisions can be effective to some extent unless these recommendations and declarations are implemented by member states or a change of mind. Therefore, we believe that the most effective way to combat currents such as increasing racism, alien hostility, Islamaphobia, antisemitism, and the currents that threaten our values is to increase and consolidate intercultural dialogue with the religious dimension. So in the countries where we've been going -- we've visited more than 90 degrees of official or working -- we haven't shared this problem with the presidents, the prime ministers, the Speakers. We shared this problem with young people in colleges, again, at what point. We've brought it to the agenda of our fellow public defenders by addressing the national legislatures. Again, we met with NGOs who were working on dialogue, and we met with religious leaders and asked for their support. We went to the Vatican, and we met with the Pope. We also met with representatives of Christians, Orthodox, Catholics, Protestants. We also met with our mufti in areas where Muslim communities lived, and we asked for their support, and as a result, for the first time in the history of the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly, we brought together five leaders of faith -- the President of Religious Affairs for all Muslims in Europe -- and we held a joint session, and they had a huge support in this process. Again, one day after the religious leaders, the Prime Minister came to Strasbourg, the co-chair of the international alliance, and did not break our invitation; again, he addressed the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. That's why we thank the Prime Minister once again. Of course, the fight against increasing racism in Europe is not only carried out by us, but also by the Committee of Ministers. In particular, a group of Akil Men was formed on the Council of Europe by the initiative of Mr. Davutoglu, our Secretary-General Jagland, as well as the proposal of Mr. Davutoglu, as chairman of the Ministerial Committee, which was run by Mr. Davutoglu. In the 21st century, they accepted a report entitled Living Together in Europe. We, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, held a full-sponsored hearing on this report, made our decision. Therefore, we thank Mr. Davutoglu for his effective work or his support for the process. Of course, in the process, national parliaments are also in charge of fighting increasing racism. So we're gonna need a lot of support from you fellow congressmen in the process. Of course, there are not only problems in Europe, dear friends. In Europe, there are opportunities. One of these opportunities is the European Union's membership in the European Convention on Human Rights, as well as in the European Court of Human Rights. Today, if we want to protect human rights across Europe, we need to ensure this integration, and we as the Council of Europe and the European Union are about to complete this process. We, as well as the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the European Parliament, have reached an agreement between us, and after this process is completed, the European Parliament will be represented by an 18-member MP in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which we chair. The European Union, which is also a member of the European Court of Human Rights, will be its own judge, and our friends from the European Parliament will be involved in this process, including the judicial elections. So this was a very important priority for us, and we are also happy to have succeeded. Of course, we've been trying to share problems in Europe and the region, problems that have arisen, and opportunities that are to come. In order to deal with these problems, the institution that we're running for president would have to be much stronger to make good use of these opportunities again. Therefore, we have given structurally large support to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, along with our Secretary-General Jack. In addition, all our support for reforming the Human Rights Court continues. Thus, the next session, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, will begin as a very different parliament in 2012, as well as our amendment to the Civil Charter, which we adopted in October -- which we again adopted in October -- to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I'd also like to tell you that I'm happy to complete a reform process that is more dynamic, more focused on political issues, open to the participation of our parliamentary friends, as well as to strengthen the bond with the national parliaments, or that our presidency has ended with such success. Of course, I'd like to stress that the reforms of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly have been particularly seriously followed by our presidency and that we are making serious contributions along with our friends in the process. Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, this is the beginning of our activities and the beginnings of our projects in our AKPM presidency. We will continue our work intensively until January 23, 2012, when we complete the AKPM presidency. We will make our last two visits to Andorra, Canada, and Canada. Andorra is one of our youngest members. In a few days, especially to show that we do not divide the small and large countries, after our official visit, we will go from here and visit them as well. Mr. President, dear friends, today's Europe has been the most stable and democratic and economically developed region in the world, and it has been the most important contribution of international institutions, the Parliament, which we hold as president. In this context, the European Convention on Human Rights developed by the Council of Europe has contributed greatly to the establishment of a united Europe around common values from the Atlantic to the Pacific, from the Baltic to the Mediterranean. But so far, we also have to accept that no international organization has been able to fully protect communities from economic crises, social security mechanisms corroding, intolerance and increased violence. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] International organisations have failed to fully resist climate change prevention, international terrorism and organised crime, unfortunately. In this regard, international cooperation and integration are needed in today's changing world more than ever. We are increasingly concerned about values such as the rule of law, human rights and freedoms, equality, justice and differences, as the search for change and order is accelerating in the current international environment. From economy to security, the rule that regulates global relations in all dimensions of international relations, the reflection of these universal values of institutions and actions, is important for the security, prosperity and stability of societies. National and international parliaments and parliamentarians should also play very important roles in the process, especially in representing the public. We have full faith that Turkey's valuable contributions to the common value system of the Council of Europe will continue to increase in the coming period under the leadership of our great Turkish Grand National Assembly. The continuation of reforms in the areas of democracy, human rights and rule of law will continue to make Turkey a center of attraction in its region. As I end my words, I would like to express once again my satisfaction and honor to be with you today under the roof of this great Turkish Grand National Assembly, a tour of the horizon. Mr. President and you, dear congressman, have my deepest love and respect for our friends.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0005par0069	Thank you, Mr. Sergeant. Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mr. Mevlüt Sergeantoglu and his delegation, Mr. Cemil Cicek, head of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, are leaving our General Assembly, and we thank them again.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0006par0072	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0005par0073	Mr. Memecan, you have a request. Come in.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0006par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Turkey is the founding member of the Council of Europe, but for the first time in the Parliament, Turkey has become a Turkish president. Mr. Mevlüt Sargeglu first conducted a very successful study during his election. After which, for the past two years, he has contributed to both objective approach and dynamic work in the Parliamentary Assembly and to a very useful extent of the Council's work, and I think Turkey has improved its reputation and represented it very well. I'd like to thank him on behalf of our delegation as president of the delegation. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0007par0080	Thank you, Mr. Memecan.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0008par0081	Mr. President, I have a request, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0007par0082	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0008par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Mevlüt, thank you for the information he's given to Sergeant, and I wish you the best of luck with his work on the Council of Europe. Dear lawmakers, today 10 January 2012, since the rights of journalists were organised as intellectual workers on January 10, 1961, every year it has been celebrated as the Day of Journalists, and we cannot celebrate this day in Turkey, because journalists celebrate this day because 97 journalists are in prison on January 10. Today, it takes a lot of courage to be a opposition journalist in an environment where unpublished books are collected, where writers are arrested, to cover anti-government sentences, to make articles. I congratulate the journalists who showed this courage. Turkey is going through hard times, and we face another kind of pressure and intimidation movement almost every day of an understanding that defines itself as a forward democrat but can't really digest democracy. In the Ottoman Empire, the political assassination of the government, based on the concept of the government, has changed shape today and has been transformed into an act of murder with justice by dressing the legal case. Businessmen, rectors, students, politicians, politicians, people from almost every part of the community who make anti-government suggestions, who make speeches, who write, write books; there is a darkness ahead of them; they don't even know what they're accused of; and many bodies are being taken from prisons to graveyards because they can't be treated for their guilt; we are in Turkey. There is no concept of universal law. Masunity has been thrown aside. In such a painting, the Republican People's Party's President, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, who criticised the judiciary, has made an attempt to influence the court's trial by setting up a trial. In 2012 Turkey, it is now time for the main opposition party, but no one will be able to silence the main opposition party and the Turkish nation. This power, which is increasing its pressure every day, will surely go away, and Turkey will have a democratic climate, a democratic government.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0009par0091	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0008par0092	In a painting such as this, Mr. Kilicdaroglu's statement had to be made. I also condemn the Prime Minister who said, "This is the place to be held." Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0009par0095	Your Honor, you've entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0010par0098	Mr. President, because of Mr. Mevlüt Sergeantoglu's speech, we were eager to express our views as the National Movement Party Group, but Mr. President, they have left the General Assembly, and yet we, as the National Movement Party Group, are pleased that a Turkish MP has been the President of the Council of Europe and, since he has made it clear, we express our congratulations on his successful work, but please allow me to say this, Mr. Sergeyoglu has been insulted by the members of the Council of the Council of Europe of Parliament in these two years, against the Turkish Republic of Turkey, against the Turkish people, and many false accusations against the Turkish nation. I'd like to have Mr. Sergeant to tell you about his struggle as a Turkish parliamentary speaker, as a Turk, against these injustices. In France, which was a very influential member of the Assembly, the claim of the Turkish nation was expressed that the genocide was persistently and that the punishment for its absence was made legal. We'd like to know what the president's reaction would be. Another thing: In these two years when Mr. Sergeyoglu was chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, there were such developments in Turkey outside of democracy that we would like to hear that he fought against them, which did not comply with the European criteria. It's Reporter's Day on January 10th. In a period when our journalists were accused of being a member of an armed terrorist organization for news they didn't write, we expected Mr. Cavoglu to also express his illness, but I repeat, as the Nationalist Action Party Group, I consider it important for our country to be president of the Parliamentary Assembly for two years, because of their services.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0011par0101	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Buldan, come in.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0012par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. I've also been promised to express the views of the Peace and Democracy Party Group because of Mr. Sergeyoglu's briefing speech here at the General Assembly. Mr. Sergeant spoke of European law here, but we would like to remind Mr. Sergeant: Today is Journalists' Day, and today there are 97 journalists under arrest in Turkey. We'd like to make good wishes for working journalists and really celebrate today, of course, but unfortunately there are journalists arrested today in Turkey, in our country for the fact that journalism is considered a crime, even news notes and address books are considered a crime and write the facts. At the same time, we are in a geography where lawmakers, lawyers, journalists are under arrest, and despite all that, I would like to convey to Mr. Sergeant: We, the Peace and Democracy Party, would like to remind you that there is no real democracy in Turkey today, and would once again celebrate the day of all working journalists, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0013par0108	Thank you, Mr. Buldan. Mr. Elistash, come in.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0014par0111	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, I congratulate him on the fact that for the first time a Turkish MP was elected President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Commission established in 1949 and that he would represent us with honor for two years. I'd like to express my gratitude for the contribution our fellow MPs have made to the work of our fellow members of all political party groups and our fellow MPs. Today is January 10, 2012, Working Journalists' Day. So we, as the group's vice president, visited our friends, the AK PARTY Group, along with our fellow lawmakers, who became parliamentary correspondents. But as it has just been stated, I would like to say that what some say is 70, some say 90, is that the detention of journalists and the assessments of journalists inside do not reflect the truth. In August 2011, 63 of the 72 journalists expressed by Turkey's Journalists' Union were in prison, and nine of them were untraceable. 45 of the 63 names have no press cards, 18 have press cards. I'd like to state that four of these 63 people were in prison for the crime of the terrorist organization, which could be called crimes committed through the press. From the allegations of 63 people, including killing men, robbing banks, robbing, extortion, threats, falsifying documents, falsifying IDs, assaulting security forces, possession of unlicensed weapons, possession of dangerous substances, threatening to collect checks, attempting to change constitutional order, which I think is probably one of the issues in which no journalist should be defined in journalism duties. And we also need to evaluate this very delicately: I draw the thick line between criticism and insult -- we need to separate it very well. In the critical parliamentary system, it's one of the most essential rights in democracies, but as long as the criticism doesn't get insulted in democracies, the courts will obviously assign it. We need to be able to make the fine line between criticism and insult. In democracies, everyone should be able to speak, but in democracies, I don't think anyone should go beyond the limits of criticism and to the measure of insult. Again, I congratulate Mr. Sergeyoglu, president of the AKPM, on his two-year mission, while congratulating Workers' Journalists Day.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0015par0118	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. Mr. Chancer, you're back in the system...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0016par0120	Mr. President, I'd like to express the opinion of the National Movement Party Group regarding Working Journalists' Day.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0015par0121	I'll give it to you for a little while. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0016par0124	Mr. President, thank you. Yeah, it's Reporter's Day on January 10th. The heart desires that the right thing to do, or to have the government come out and inform us about the problems of the working journalists, and the groups speak ten minutes in return, but they didn't allow it. We, the National Movement Party Group, invite our Parliament, our country, the entire political institution to be sensitive to the problems of working journalists. We don't find it very right to talk about the problems of working journalists in the shadow of the problems of arrested journalists in the press. We know that journalists who work today have really important problems. This Parliament, this General Assembly, has taken away the journalist's share of wear and tear. That's not true. It's not right. At least on this January 10th, we can bring up the issue of the extradition of the journalist's right to wear-out rights, we can change the law on this, we can decide to extradite that right as a responsibility to democracy, as a responsibility to the political institution, to our journalists who work to ensure a reconciliation between groups. As the National Movement Party, we celebrate this special and important day for all of our journalists and wish them health and success. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0017par0129	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0018par0131	Mr. President, I'd like to say something.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0017par0132	What's it for?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0018par0133	Sir, you promised two of each group. That's why I demand one more time.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0017par0134	I didn't promise two people, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0018par0135	Because of the working journalists...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0017par0136	I think you said that.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0018par0137	Two of our friends from the ruling party talked.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0019par0138	No, he spoke as Chairman of the AKPM Turkish Group.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0017par0139	In a different way, not as group vice presidents. I promised you, Mr. Hamzacebi, as the group's vice president. Thank you. I accept that as well. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Kırıkkale MP Ramadan Can (Kırıkkale) who wants to talk about the explosion at the military munitions depot in Yahshihan district of Kurıkkale Province. Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0020par0147	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to thank the president for allowing me to speak out of the question. Mr. President, in the coming of the new year, four of our fellow citizens and citizens were killed in the explosion at TNT branch of the Army's arsenal, which is located in Kırıkkale Jahshihan district. I offer my condolences to our martyrs and to their relatives and to our countrymen, as I pray for God's mercy. Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, Salih Erkec, born in 1969, was registered to the village of Cankurtaran in Kırıkkale Province, Cankurtaran district, where his funeral was found, and his funeral was buried in the Yahshihan family cemetery with the wake of the noon prayer held at Kırıkkale Central Atattepe Mosque. I ask God's mercy again for our martyr. The ceremony was attended by our national Defence Minister Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, our Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay and our National Defence Commission Chairman, Mr. Governor, Mayor and military and civilian staff. The funeral was buried with the wife of a large citizen. Mr. President, one of our three fallen brothers, one of the three brothers from the village of Kırıkkale Lowerhammuts, another of my relatives, is Algeria Eyçokkan; another of the village of Kırıkkale Karacalı, born in 1991, Samet Aygar, our brother; another of the village of Tetören in Ankara, Adnan Dağdeviren has not been identified. It's been eight days since the incident, but a busy study continues. The intensive study focused on DNA testing at GATA (GATA) and Forensic Medicine. Families look forward to their funerals. Hopefully soon, the officers and the authorities will be able to conclude their detection work and deliver their families to their funerals, and hopefully, we'll have their martyrdom together. Mr. President, this facility, owned by the Army Command in Jahshihan district of Kırıkkale, was a dissolution and dissolution facility of ammunition, and was launched and delivered to the Army Command in 2007. Unfortunately, in this place where 202 people are working, the necessary measures have been taken, but what caused this explosion? Investigations of the criminal and military prosecutor's office regarding this explosion continue. Mr. President, that's not the definition of a martyr in a situation like this, in cases like this, in cases like this, in cases like this, that's what would interest the rest of our martyrs. Indeed, we have been given martyr status here. I would especially like to thank our General Staff, our National Defence Minister, our Land Forces, Mr. Governor, our Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay and our National Defence Commission Chairman Oğuz Khan Koksal Bey, and especially the members of the Harb-Work Union officials. I'm hoping that our two brothers, Algeria and Samet, who just took the job three months ago, will benefit from the rights to this martyr status. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are a young, dynamic city founded in the 1920s by military factories giving up the land of the late Huseyin Kahya. With the expansion and increased employment of military factories, Kırıkkale became a city of people of 80 provinces. The city was a municipality in 1939 and a municipality in 1941. When we arrived in the 1970s, the migration was concentrated, employment increased, and the centre of Cırıkkale reached 200,000 populations. The cleftkale is now an important defence center with Machine Chemistry, along with the TUPRAS refinery. With its presence as a defence centre, the facilities of the National Department of Defense, Machine Chemistry, and especially the TUPRAS refinery, are made here with explosives and burning materials. So, of course, it's a risky business. As long as you don't take those risks with you, important, dangerous, risky areas have been transported from the center of the city to places far away from the city. Yet, of course, the challenges, the risks in the defence sector continue. Our government's work continues to minimise these problems. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I hope our funerals will be identified by a DNA test, and their families will receive funerals. I hereby offer God's mercy to our martyrs, to his relatives, and to our nation's condolences again. Again, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0021par0161	Thank you, Mr. Can. The second non-responsored statement belongs to Alexei MP Lütfü Turkkan, who wants to talk about the problems of his employer. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0022par0166	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself to address the problems of the highly valued lawmakers, the Bigeeli tradesman. I salute your high council. The government claims that after China, India and Argentina, in our rapidly growing country, I want to talk to you a little bit about the problems of my own constituency, the Bigeeli trade. On every street and street you enter, almost a third of the existing shops have a rental sign. I don't think it's so different in the areas where you've been chosen, and not only in the case of this one, but also in the areas where you've been chosen. We also remember the election trips, and every shop we go to is making a very serious complaint. So you can look for other effects of this not being cast into the polls, so if this tradesman is voting for us, brother, if he's complaining, why is he voting for us? A defence in the form of a complaint is not very valid, it doesn't require that the tradesman not see the problems. This is not only my saying about the province of Alexei, but the same was said in the press the other day by Kemal Kaya, who had been head of the Chamber of the Traders and Artists for some twenty-two years. We're visiting the shop, and they were saying: "We had bad jobs in 2010, we've got worse problems in 2011, we've got bigger problems in 2012." Please speak of these problems. The shopkeeper has now cashed in his wife's bracelet, the money he put in a corner, the death money, began to eat from his capital, and is trying to keep his shop going. Almost half the shopkeepers we visit owe it to the owner. These tradesmen no longer have the means to get loans; most of them are in debt to banks; most of them are in debt; their records are broken; their business records are broken; they have no opportunity to go to co-ops for business artists. The wholesaler doesn't trust the shopkeeper anymore, so he doesn't lend himself any more. Another problem with the tradesman in Kopeeli is the parking ban on the streets, on the main arteries, and on the side streets. Because of this parking ban, people can't stand in front of any tradespeople and shop in any way. Where does he do it? Instead, he goes shopping from large malls with parking spaces. The malls are a very important problem of the tradesman in Turkey. The source of the concealed money transfer. They can't provide a very serious entry into Turkey by transferring their profits abroad to their own headquarters, most of which are already foreign companies. Notice that most of the shops have closed down, where the pockets are now being set up. When I go to this minivale and ask them what I can do about these markets, their common opinion is that they are all waiting for the General Assembly to resolve the law that we know as the Law of the Great Markets, which the Assembly does not bring to the General Assembly. We've played with the country's cantar, be careful, we've played with the cantar almost everywhere, we've made it unresolved. And remember that the day will come when you will be wrongly weighed. I'd like to pass on the problems that come from a number of voters who know that I'm going to be speaking in this place. The cops say they're working hard, we're working overtime, we don't get any overtime. They say they're not paying any overtime. The squad cars can't move because of the lack of gas. ▪ We used to go to the shop and fill up the gas. In the case of the shopkeeper, it's sad that the police car can no longer go from the shop to the gas station. Thus, there is a stationary, non-mobile police officer, and I wanted to express their complaints. I'm only saying it because they specifically want me to ask. There's a statement from the Prime Minister today, Mr. Obama, that you have to stay in Iraq for a while longer until the democratic system settles. People who don't understand very much. As far as I could tell, we couldn't bring democracy to Iraq, but instead of democracy, fascism came. We've all had intense complaints about the appointment of teachers, and they've asked the General Assembly to bring it up again. My respects to all of you, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0023par0179	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. The third non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Melda Onur. Here you go, Mr. Onur.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0024par0184	Mr. President, I'm here today on behalf of my dear colleagues, who are watching us work from the balcony, as well as being a member of parliament. I'm celebrating the Day of Journalists who worked on January 10th for all my fellow journalists who worked or couldn't work, especially under the House's roof, as we do. We're having a more bitter celebration this year than it is every year because we're going through the worst days of our profession. On January 10, 1961, the Law 212, which improved the working conditions of journalists, brought forward rights. That's why today is celebrated as Working Journalists' Day or Holiday, but what a holiday. Fifty-one years later today, the economic and social rights of employees in the industry became unusable. The non-union of September 12th order and the dysfunction of the law continue. Today, no steps can be taken to improve this situation. Unfortunately, the proposed law under the leadership of Mr. Oktay Sokşiya, to correct the situation of our friends, was not adopted by our ruling group colleagues. From what Mr. Mehmet Shandir just said, we believe the National Movement Party Group will support this bill in the coming days. Job security is abandoned at the mercy of media bosses. Not to mention the fact that the work of the bosses has been abandoned at the Prime Minister's mercy. Do you think we don't know the setting of closed meetings, the pressure that comes to media executives at dawn with phone calls, the warnings that come to our friends' ears on live broadcasts? In our future democracy, power has also targeted free press. Journalists who criticize power, advocate different views, are indicted, arrested, and convicted on various grounds. According to the figures of Turkey's Journalists' Union -- which has been repeated a lot today, I believe it is useful to repeat over and over again -- the number of journalists in prison as of December 31st 2011 has reached 97. Most of these friends are editors, representatives, columnists and reporters, including 21 women. In fact, I would show you this increase graph if you had a barkovy, but in the age of advanced technology, dating cardboard is not really for me, so I hope one day we'll have a barkovy in the House. Mr. Justice Minister disregards the opinion of the sector's authority institution -- the opinion of Turkey's Journalists' Union -- claims that these people are terrorists, not journalists, and are not locked up for journalistic activities. I'm curious about the opinion of two other ministers: one of them is the minister of the free and powerful press in our country, Mr. Bkent Arinc, and the minister of the Turkish Union of Journalists concerned about the trust of working life. I'm interested in the opinion of Mr. Mevlüt Sargeglu, who was just here. If he were here, I'd ask him that question. Dear friends, approaching ten years, AKP Power will pass through double roads to the pages of history, export records, healthcare records, not by the word "retainment"; the arrested children, arrested students, arrested journalists, arrested environmentalists -- and the arrested civilians, soldiers, academics, and arrested MPs who have just been here -- who can't even appear before the judge. Today, several prisons have a total of eight MP albums marked. The 2011 edition is an album by the 24th-century MP. He's already running for auction. I'm signing my signature here under the words that led to my president's trial. It's not just Silivri, it's like a lot of prison concentration camps, and courts are really theater. The conditions in prison remind me of a movie I don't want to name here. We grew up with the trauma of this movie, guys. Mr. Minister of Justice, if you don't want future generations to read history like this, I'm telling you to give up this law of revenge justice and feud. I also remember another friend of mine, Hrant Dink, who came to the 5th year of his murder when he ended my words, and today's trial, and I don't know if I should say in the Van earthquake or even in his murder, he remembers the other two of our friends we lost, and I wish the press workers the holidays without handcuffs.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0025par0194	Thank you, Mr. Onur. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of Parliament, Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Ertugrul Günay wanted to answer questions from the agenda of the agenda, including 1, 7, 8, 42, 54, 55, 66, 79, 92, 161, 254, 306, 307, 308, 308, 321, 322, 414, 428, 471, 484, 493, 502, 550, 553 and 554. I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. There are resignations from the commissions, I'm having them read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'd like to resign from the Commission's membership. I'd like to pay tribute to your information. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning my membership as a member of the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission. I demand that it be done. Yours truly. Dr. Mustafa Baloğlu It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation. I'll have the motions read separately. Since the parliamentary research motion I will be reading in the 2nd place is more than 500 words, the summary of the motion will be read, but the full text of the motion will be published in the journal. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 42nd Amendment. The first joke of the article states that "no one can be deprived of the right to education and teaching." Despite the Constitution's ruling, however, the Turkish education system deals with numerous problems. At the very beginning of these problems, the number of teachers who are the leading roles in meeting the needs of education and education in society is insufficient. The value and importance given to our teachers, who are the basis of our educational system, is not possible today. Teachers in our country who want to finish their education course every year and start working life in hopes of becoming a teacher are unfortunately involved in the unemployed army because they do not have the necessary appointments. Prime Minister Recep Tayip Erdogan criticised the current system of teacher appointments in the area of the rally before he came to power in 2002 and sent several messages that all teachers' candidates would be appointed. For example, in a speech in Istanbul in 2002, he said: "Many of our young people, especially our teachers, have lost their jobs. The country has collapsed, the village schools are closed, and even the schools at the center are dying to be teachers, and you're auditioning for teachers. Why don't you let our young teachers work? You keep him waiting all these years, and then you take him, and does he have any more enthusiasm or can he teach? But hopefully, when we're in power, the teachers will make their preparations the day after school is over, and the next day, they'll go to school with a love of duty, so don't worry." When we look at today's picture of promises before power, I'm afraid it's not just a promise that's been fulfilled. In 2002, the number of non-assigned teachers reached 300,000 in the AKP's ruling process. In short, the number of unemployed teachers increased 500 per cent during AKP rule. Lastly, before the 2011 parliamentary elections, the AKP was asked to vote on the promise of the appointment of 55,000 teachers. Still, after the election, these words were forgotten. Minister of National Education Omar Dinçer had to apologize to the teachers. The number of educators taking the 2009 KPSS teaching test is 243,569. However, between 2003 and 2009, 147,702 teachers were included in the system. The number of teachers received after KPSS in 2009 was 30,464. In this case, only 213,105 faculty graduates were suspended by the 2009 KPSS exam. He also failed to apply for nearly 70,000 graduate exams for reasons such as the Ministry's failure to receive teachers in various majors and closing some majors. At the same time, over 80,000 paid teachers, 10,000 of them in Istanbul, appear to be low on the teacher deficit. Many paid teachers are well - known for their professions as not teaching. We're in a phase where people who have a marketing degree teach science and an international trade graduate is a Turkish teacher and an animal breeder is a class teacher. In order for this situation to be resolved, it must be terminated immediately and appointed as a paid teacher. In a national education with a shortage of nearly 200,000 teachers, there is no way to explain the delay of nearly 300,000 teachers for the appointment. If we recognize that social education is the number one constructive element in social understanding, without forgetting that individuals are creating the phenomenon, we will have the social balance and development that we are aiming for. It is the 98th Amendment to the psychological, social and economic conditions of our young teachers, who are waiting for their appointment to be completed by finishing the education school, and to meet the need for teachers in the educational system urgently. And of TBMM's Introduction 104. And 105. We offer and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened according to the clauses. 1) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Mughle]] 4) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 8) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 12) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] 15) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 16) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[40s.]] 18) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[Erzincan]] [[Adıyaman]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "Investigating the ecological, environmental, legal and social impacts of the Constitution," the 98th edition of HES projects in some districts and districts of Mugla province, which were planned and planned to be carried out, "and will create and create destructions on the natural environment, criminal responsibilities and investigations of ecological, environmental, legal and social effects." And your index is 104. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully announce the opening of "Meclis Research." Despite some judicial decisions made and planned, HESs continue to destroy nature irreversibly, leading to serious negative developments in mining, forests, historical areas and agriculture. The fertile land in the region is damaged by being underwater or cemented by HES, and the rural population is eliminated, not counting that farming is a way of life. It is part of the "special protection zone" because it reaches the sea (Seki, Kören Tea, also known as Köen Tea near Antalya-Emma) and is suitable for breeding of birds and marine creatures. The same tea contains "Secret National Park and Natural Site." According to the latest environmental arrangement plan, 26 of the HES projects are indicated to be in their arms and arms. There are 5 HES projects in Karzu tea, which reached the sea in Burn Village, through the 4km long canyon, which was born near Fethiye Çüğmen village. The Port of Fethiye is rapidly filling up because of the alluvyons carried by Fethiye HES. The other 3 HES projects are located on the Karapınar Creek near Fethiye, which was dried up during the HES construction between 1997 and 1999. Water is now flowing through the stream from Ezen Tea to run the HES on it. Another two HES projects are being seen in this region in a 100 grand plan revision. "In order to prevent the destruction of the forest and other trees in the area of the temple tree and protection status," local residents and some residents have applied to the Department of the Regional Council of Culture and Nature. The director of the board decided that the HES activity would be halted on 10,08,2011 until the process of reviewing the results of the research reports in order to prevent the environmental disaster and conduct relevant detection studies. However, after the end of the duties of the Councils of Culture and Naturalities of Culture and Nature, dated 1708.2011, the Mugla Regional Council rejected the demands of the citizens, rejecting the demands of the State and Urbanization Ministry, which, according to the KHK, was effective in the history of broadcast and would continue to be valid until further review. Thus, an actual situation was created for the local company. Public harm is inevitable with such illegal and criminal behavior. (x) (10/95) The main number of Parliamentary Research is included in the full text of Öprescription. In the Indian Sea Basin is the natural breeding corridor of the Milky Way tree, an endemic species in international literature. As we have witnessed, the existence and reproduction of the endangered shallow tree is seriously at stake as a result of the irregular flow of water through the HES project, which cuts down trees and prepares for construction in the area. It is clear that the project, which could lead to the destruction of the protected shallow tree with international contracts, could leave the company and the state of the Republic of Turkey alone with convictions and high compensation decisions if applied to international courts. It is also possible that the olive trees next to it are not affected by the project. The Kızıldere Mevkii village was hired for five years as "Piknik and Mesera" by the official application of its corporate personality to the Fethiye Forest Business Directorate at 5:01.999. The request was denied when the contract was extended again at 12:12,2003. When allowed to be used as a picnic site in 1999, there was no attempt to establish HES on Kargü Tea, while at 13.10,2003, there was a permit taken by the As Energy Trade Company to build a plant in the region. The question of whether the request has anything to do with the request to build a plant is remarkable. In light of this information, it is important to establish and investigate the Parliamentary Research Commission for the HES projects in the area. [[Mughle]] [[Mughle]] [[40s.]] [[Tekirdağ]] 5) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 6) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[Inconceived]] [[Ankara]] 9) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 15) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 16) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 17) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 18) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 19) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[Adıyaman]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, there are approximately 5 million, 681, 663 SSK pensioners, 1 million, 781, 206 BUG-KUR pensioners, 1 million 821,357 retired pensioners. In order to determine the victims of our pensions, to investigate their problems, to have a low salary, to not benefit from bank promotions, to pay, to contribute in state and university hospitals, to address salary differences, and to investigate the difficulties that our pensions are facing, to determine the harm caused by the government's practices, to determine these problems, and to determine the solutions, we propose that the 98th article of our Constitution be opened and opened in accordance with the Articles 104 and 105 of the Interior Charter shall be given in accordance with the additional Articles 104 and 105. There are approximately 5 million, 681, 663 SSK pensioners, 1 million, 781, 206 Bağ-kur pensioners, 1 million 821,357 pensioners in our country. Our pensioners are victims of a low salary. This year, our officer and pensioner received an 8% salary increase, 4%, but when we look at the inflation in our citizens' pockets, it appears to be around 18%, and the 8% increase doesn't mean anything. Most of our pensioners who are struggling with livelihoods need to work. The pensioner's share of the national income has increased the gap of income between the current government workers and pensioners, and has continued to victimize our pensioner even though the government has promised it. In particular, bank promotions to public workers and civil servants are not given to pensioners. The Social Security Agency must also use bank promotions to promote pensioners by doing protocols with banks. In agreements 87 and 98 on the union freedom of the international Labour Organization (ILO), which our country signed and sided with, the right to union organisation is organised. According to this, pensioners have the right to form a union and sit at the collective contract table. Retired persons must also be present at the collective contract table. Payroll coefficients and non-referencing payments for the base month must be used on our pensions. Retired Ark, S. S. The treatment and examination of and treatment of Union-kur pensioners in public and university hospitals without paying, without contributing, should be made available without paying for drugs such as orthesis, prosthetics, tools, and factors such as drugs, and the equivalent medicines must also be removed. It is our pensioners' right to be able to have a little relief and a habit of living under the negative economic conditions of pensioners who receive the lowest share of their income distribution. 1) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] [[Lug]] [[Manisa]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Inconceived]] [[Elazığ]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] 13) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Kayseri]] [[Tripoli]] [[Adana]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] 20) Edip Semih Yalçın [[Gaziantep]] [[Adana]] [[Paddles]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take place on the agenda and will be held when it comes to preliminary talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes. 10:01.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 10,01,2012 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. M. Akif Hamzacebi Bartin MP M. On October 06, 2011, Riza Yalçınkaya and his friends suggested that Turkey's Grand National Assembly of Turkey be taken ahead of other proposals for "the immediate determination of the issues in which arrested journalists are involved and that freedom of press and expression be set as an example to the world" in our country, and that the Council of Assembly should be read and held in the same history of its talks Tuesday (December 20). In favour of the proposal, Izmir MP Oğuz Oyan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Oyan.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0026par0407	Thank you. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are continuing to threaten the entire community, the special official judiciary continues to silence all opposition voices, especially the free press. Not only through arrests, but more commonly, by firing journalists from their jobs or driving them into auto censorship. Freedom of the press is the cornerstone of democracy, without it there is no democracy. It's because it's not him, and today the special prosecutors extend their courage to the legislature's immunity. You can look at the additions to the room TV indictment. It's because there is no state of democracy and law, which, in 2010, didn't even apply its own constitutional amendment, and the government is handing over its chief of staff to private officials. It's because there's no state of democracy and law, and even for the leader of the main opposition party, special prosecutors can be mobilized. We're at the end of the line. The theater is moving from drama to comedy to drama. If the charge is an attempt at a fair trial, now I'm here to process it, my dear friends. I'm reading to you the words of Mr. Kilicdaroglu on the subject of the trial, on the subject of the trial. There's a theater here where judges who are biased and under political authority only play. They call it "judgment," "democracy." This is not a democracy, nor is it a distribution of justice. The arrested MPs have no means of escape. They can't escape, they love their country. They don't say, "Let's not be judged." They're already on trial. They want to come to Parliament and take their vows and do their duty within the 90th Amendment and other provisions of the Constitution, but unfortunately these duties are blocked by some judges. I can't bear to call them judges because the judge is the one who acts with a conscience, the judge is the one who knows the public's expectations and feelings and respects it. Consistency... the 90th article of the Constitution has international contracts signed by the Republic of Turkey. If you ignore them and I read what I know, what I know and what I say is true. If you set out with logic, you will not be able to distribute justice. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends -- I continue -- if this is an attempt at a fair trial -- I urge the Attorney General, the Attorney General of the State, to hold the following words immediately, I do not see the trial of the prisoner as a proper way. I invite the Prime Minister to hold a statement against him. Let's see if he can carry his courage to this point. And I'll tell you this: I'm the prosecutor of the Silivri cases, the Prime Minister's attorney of this case. He calls it a flare, which is being carried out under his shadow prosecutor's office, and even today, the Prime Minister says that for the trial of Kilicdaroglu, this is what has to be done. The prosecutor talks, the shadow prosecutor and added: "The group talks of Kilicdaroğlu today are also a cause of dissension," he says. Who's he telling? To law enforcement and special prosecutors. The Attorney General has spoken, act immediately. My dear friends, if you call it the "democracy," it can only be a few acts of theater. If these prosecutors want it so bad, they can charge the Prime Minister with the crime of affecting the fair trial as well as other charges. I'll give you a few examples: act immediately for the Prime Minister for court-ordered irregularities and corruption in the sale of the Balıkesir SECA factory. For the corruption of the first sales transactions of TIPRAS, which have been suspended by court order, please immediately hold a hearing for the Prime Minister. For the practice, which sold 14.76 per cent to Ofer, the best man, who was abducted from the public by the so-called public supply method of TIPRASH, again -- the court's decision and the irregularity of this has been determined immediately -- is immediately set in motion. In the morning with a single bid for Kuşadası Port, or for the Charik Group, issue a statement about the Prime Minister, who tendered the ATV group. Let's see what they'll do here, those who dare to hold a hearing about Izmir Metropolitan Municipality about their own city's own parking lot. My dear friends, this process of judgment is an expression of power's rematch mentality. Further, fear is the revelation of the mission to create an empire. This is the law of the superior; this is the law of martial law of the AKP; this is the law of martial law of power; this is the process of counter-revolution, which is part of a major operation in the country that has begun to clean up all the opposing elements of being co-chair of BOP in the Middle East, which is a process of open Fascism in the Middle East. So, what's the executive legislature and its president doing in the process? Is the legislature, the legislature, protecting the honors of the members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the House's reputation? So we gave up the autonomy of law and order, and we pursued this matter of dignity and honor. I mean, what the hell? There's no such thing. The chairman of the legislature, we're calling on the Speaker of the House to report to the HSYK about the pressures imposed on these media that we're reporting to them on the stand, that their additions are considered criminal evidence just because they're published on that website in the Oda TV case, and we're saying: We're trying to arrange a gene for the Ministry of Justice by throwing the ball at us, or by throwing the ball at us, and there are two regulations in the Constitution, one of which can't interfere with Article 138 legislation, but 83 can't interfere with living. There is no superiority among the Constitutional clauses, my dear friends. (HPP) The Speaker is obliged to maintain the honor of the body he represents in the first degree. And of course, there have been 3,188 questions asked in this Parliament since June, when 717 have been answered, 606 of them have been removed without being answered. Has anyone heard the Speaker make a loud call about this? My dear friends, among these unanswered questions are my questions. I asked the Minister of Transport about election spending -- there is also Mr. Minister here now -- who resigned with the Minister of Culture and Tourism of the two ministers. There's been no response from the House. I asked him about it through the Right to Information Act 4982. There's an answer from the Minister, very interesting, and the answer is, I'm reading it, two lines. During the election period, letters were sent to 2,900,000 people, not to all voters. Where's the funding for that, how's that? That's what we asked. Mr. Secretary said, if I may point out, you're listening to the Minister, aren't you? During the election period, the vote was tried not to reach all voters, but especially in the central district. The organization was largely organised by friends who supported the campaign. There are no central districts in İzmir, Mr. Minister, there are metropolitan districts in İzmir. How many people have asked you about it again, thanks to you, PTT gave me an answer, because I asked there, too. PTT says that 2 million 904,485 shipments were made in İzmir. These have been printed by us, folded, enveloped, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, Now, I repeat my questions: where does this come from? Two, how could you lie to a congressman? Mr. Secretary, I can't find another statement, you're telling me that I've only been sampled, not all voters. You're saying that your PTT is signed to me and we've made this agreement and that's it. When, my dear friends, does a minister not resign? I'm asking when it will. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So, aside from human rights and honor, politics has no honor? Does politics have to stick to the minister's seat? If this has been revealed, and Bali Yıldırım has the same degree and more responsibility behind it -- Mr. Minister of Transport -- because the PTT is an institution of its own, and it has been passed over by it and has been given as much discount as they didn't deserve. We're waiting for an answer. So on the one hand, you're going to press the media, you're going to gag everyone, you're going to put pressure on politics, you're going to put pressure on the main opposition, you're going to push forward democracy, you're going to bullshit about the constitution of advanced democracy. No looting! Nobody buys those lies anymore! We shout once again here that the country cannot be ruled by these lies, and we invite you to justice and justice. I hope we can be heard a little bit. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0027par0427	Thank you, Mr. Oyan.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0028par0428	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0029par0429	That's it, then the Minister will answer.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0027par0430	Here you go, Mr. Günay.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0028par0433	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear friends, some revolutionary decisions are being made in our country's rule of law these days. There may be procedures that some of us don't like, but I would expect the whole of Parliament to say good things from this bench, for the sake of the democratic state of law in Turkey, even though everyone who believes in democracy is late, because of an incident these days. Since when is it something to rejoice about the president of the main opposition party? Our friends are in an incredible imposition. On September 12, 1980, Turkey closed down all political parties.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0030par0437	We do not fear you, nor do we fear your government.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0028par0438	... an indictment was filed after a constitutional amendment in 2010, even though it was very late about a junta staff who first exposed various traps and then suffered various injustices. All Parliament must applaud this standing up, highlighting the delay...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0031par0439	Do you have anything to say about Mr. Kilicdaroglu's trial?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0028par0440	... but friends are incredibly talking about going back in the rule of law in Turkey. First, I'd like to present this to everyone's attention. Actually, 1991... [[Noises from CHP rows]] My friends, about the September 12 coup being brought to justice...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0032par0444	Just answer for your coup. Just answer for your own blow. There's no need to play politics.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0028par0445	... that you should express your satisfaction first, but I'm very surprised that you're saying some things today in Turkey that would undermine the rule of law; that's the first one.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0032par0446	Pay for your pressures and threats to Parliament first. We're questioning you.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0028par0447	Secondly, a friend of ours, a friend of ours, who has just spoken, has made a claim since: We have written letters to our constituents, and how did we write these letters?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0033par0448	Who paid the money?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0028par0449	Look, I just gave a draft of letters to my friends and that manuscript... and I didn't see everyone getting letters, so some of them said, "We didn't get it." Some said, "We didn't." From the official figures...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0034par0451	Mr. Günay, I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0028par0452	I'm finishing. Officially, they've reached enough places to be our friends. Now, shame on you if you're getting down on politics, and you're getting organized, and you're doing it with your fellow staff, and you can't even write a letter to a constituent, and you're criticizing the authors!
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0035par0456	Watch your language. Who paid the money?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0028par0457	So if you can't even write a letter to your constituent, and you're criticizing your constituents, I'm returning all your allegations, all your false claims, all your false claims, and all your tips to you exactly. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0036par0460	You're lying! You're lying!
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0037par0461	You're blushing, Mr. Secretary, you're blushing.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0038par0462	Thank you, Mr. Günay. Against the proposal, Müsh MP Sırı Sakık.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0039par0464	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0040par0465	It's political corruption. Who paid the money, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0041par0466	I wrote a letter to your audition. Did it come out of your pocket?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0039par0467	Mr. President, Mr. Oyan has a voice request.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0042par0468	Mr. President, I want an answer. Because there's a distortion of the official document.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0043par0469	One moment, Mr. Sakek... one moment, Mr. Sakk, one moment...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0042par0470	There's a distortion of the official document. I'm talking about the document that bears this Minister's signature. This is a case of crime.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0044par0471	Mr. President, this isn't a court, let him go to court.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0042par0472	This is a red-handed situation. It bears the Minister's signature.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0044par0473	Mr. President, this isn't a court...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0042par0474	So he can't come in here and deny it. He's either here to apologize or he didn't answer that.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0045par0475	Mr. Oyan, one moment... I'll give you a say later. Please, come in, Mr. Sakik.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0046par0481	Dear friends, I salute you all. Even though we've taken it against him, on a day like this, it's a joke to speak against such a motion, stemming from an agreement between factions. And I salute all my fellow journalists because of World Workers' Journalists' Day. We're from a field where I've been in some of the past. Now, Mr. Minister has just spoken from here; it's as if he's doing the ministry in a sunny country. Just a few days ago, 36 journalists who had been reporting crime and sin had been operated on at night in their homes, and our fellow journalists were arrested one by one from Istanbul, Ankara, Diyarbakır, VanEST, İzmir, and 36 journalists from all four sides of Turkey were taken from their homes at night. I visited them this weekend in the Candara. I visited them this weekend in Istanbul. So the shame of this country is still a democratic development, a democratic transformation, serious revolutions are being made, and it's a bit unconscionable to present it to the public. We know each other well, we know each other well. So, Mr. Prime Minister, as of last night, I wish he'd made up his mind about his co-worker, working journalists. I wish he could only defend the law of lawyers who went on duty and lawyered up his client. I wish he could only defend the law of mayoral mayors who have been arrested for this. I wish Mr. Prime Minister had been able to defend the law of his colleagues, Mr. General, as well as the law of his colleagues, and those MPs, just as you are reflected here at the will of the people, are the will of the people, and those mayors are the will of the people. You should have said something about them, about democratization, but you're not doing it. At the group meeting today, there was only an invitation to violence, an invitation only to re-fight by tampering with Turkey's social fabrics. And for the past two days between you and the main opposition party, there's been a debate between power. Please write all the fines at our house. So please write the petition to the People's Party of the Republic in the house of BDP. (Applause from CHP's rows) The AKP also has a trial in hand. Please write to me about the Prime Minister. Shame on you, you're talking about this! I mean, go see how many, 15 or 20 MPs are facing a trial in the commissions. For each of them, a hundred years, a hundred and fifty years, we're wanted to be punished for nearly 3,000 years, but not here, twisting the agenda, going out and preaching the hammock. You're in power, you'll answer. You are the rulers. If there is injustice in your land, We will take account of it from you. And when we ask you to threaten us with orders, we punish you today by targeting us from between the lines, Mr. Prime Minister, you and your group, all the people of Turkey know us very well, and they know where we come from, and you know that we're not surrendering to the sovereign forces here, we've been taken away from here for many years, between the piles of iron and concrete. You will bow down. They said, "We will not bend." We have one life, we sacrifice it. We say, you know it, and you come back to us... all the holy books speak of patience, and Allah speaks of patience, and the prophets speak of patience, but that patience is only for the victims. People are being slaughtered in the nation, we criticize you, you threaten us. So, who are we going to criticize and not criticize you? What are we going to do? So you're going back, you're saying that 33 people were killed in the Muglalı incident, during the Republican People's Party period. What period of power did these 35 people take place? How many days ago were you not in power? On that day, the triggers were pulled against the heads of those innocent villagers, but at the end of the year 2011 and 12, orders came down from here at night, and from here the F-16. The planes were taking off, the F-16. When we call it the Kurt, you call it the divisor. So, where did they come from? They weren't Kurds? Aren't these people citizens of this country? How were they slaughtered? You put mines on the border, you put mines on our tongue, you put mines on our IDs, come on, pledge allegiance to these mines. You've broken our land, you've broken it. His field is at the border of Iran, at the border of Iraq, at the border of Syria, but he is in a village in Uludere. Now, would that be such a cruel policy? When you're supposed to wrap these up, you're supposed to solve this problem, but you're making time for your fellow workers, and a friend here told you -- you're trying to pay us back with blood money. Blood money is a primitive money, blood money is a money of violence against the law, against humanity. Couldn't you guys really do that? What is your arrogance? A sin has been committed, don't you have a tradition of apologizing to families and people for this sin? Mr. Prime Minister, we apologize to these families for the violence in Turkey. These families and these people have suffered for many years in this geography, and we apologize for that. What would happen if they said: Is it moral, moral, and conscientious, to attack Selahattin Demirtaş, to attack Gültan Kışanak, to attack BDP? Are they responsible for this? You're going to explain it to us, which means you can't cover it up by taking out the regimental commander there. Who did it, who did it? You'll know that as a whole. I mean, we all deserve to know how those people were slaughtered with their index fingers. And there are nine kids there who are between twelve and fifteen years old. Think about it, conscience! So, if you're five minutes late for your appointment, you'll return to that person: we apologize to you, we're five minutes late. So, why don't you show the virtue of apologizing to a people, to a family? Because you have a white soul, you have a culture of superiority. How can we apologize to a people who are being humiliated? You have such a state of mind. For him, those kids were just kids. When your twelve-year-old, thirteen, eighteen, twenty-year-olds don't come home at night, you're all mad, you're on your feet. But where was he going when those kids died? To get a prepaid bill. Where were they going? They were kids who sent scholarship money to their two college brothers. But unfortunately, you're not in a position to understand them, because your moods are different.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0047par0486	Who doesn't understand, who doesn't?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0046par0487	Solve it if you understand.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0047par0488	Let's do the math.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0046par0489	Solve it if you understand.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0047par0490	Which one of us doesn't?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0046par0491	Solve it if you understand.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0047par0492	Face yourself.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0046par0493	Go over there and talk.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0047par0494	Face it.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0046par0495	It's easy to talk in these seats around here. I invite you on a mission, I invite you on a conscience.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0047par0496	We all invite you to a conscience.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0046par0497	I invite you to empathize with those families. It's not just my problem, it's the problem that we all have in common, we all have to share in this common problem. We can't all solve this problem by threatening each other, threatening each other with our judgment, threatening the police. No one's afraid of the judge or the police or any of those uniforms in uniform who come looking at us all wrong. There's only one thing we're afraid of, our conscience and our beliefs. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0048par0500	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Mr. Oyan, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0049par0504	Thank you. Now, Mr. Secretary, we have a situation here. You wanted to hide the truth, these facts were revealed. Why did you want to hide the truth? Because you were afraid it would be exposed. You didn't answer at first, but when you went through the Right to Information Act, you had to answer. Where did you come up with the need to hide? Now, what kind of attitude do you have here after this crime? A rash attitude, an uncompromising attitude, reckless attitude, and a counter-crime. What is it? You're jealous of us, you should have written it. That's not my problem. You've written 2 million 904,000 voters, and I'm asking you where the funding is. It's a simple question, I've asked you from the beginning. Normally, it's 50 cents, and PTT is worth 1.5 million. There's no stationery, no pressure, no folding, no envelopes. So it's going to cost over $2 million. Governments in many countries are falling because of this kind of funding. Turkey is not in Turkey because of such donations that politics cannot explain its origin, but in other countries governments, prime ministers are falling. A minister comes here and says, "Well, why don't you do it?" Words? Besides, the answer is a lie. Look, I'll read to you a little bit more about the PTT (PTT)'s response: the 2 million,904,485 posts, which included the message of PTT's former Minister of Transport, Culture and Tourism Minister Ertugrul Günay, and 2 (P) former Minister of Transport Bülli Yıldırım, were printed and distributed in a PTT-based Postal System (PIT) under the contract issued 25/5/2011 with Ömer Cihat Akay of the AKP province of İzmir. In this direction, on 2/6/2011, the price of pressure by Izmir Postal and Distribution Manager -- except for VAT -- 162.680 euros... Why euros? İzmir Metropolitan Municipality is currently on trial for making the stop contract through the euro. Why euros? It goes on:..and distribution costs -- including VAT -- $278.830... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0050par0511	Please finish.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0049par0512	In exchange for the sum of $720,000, he says. So there's an account here for over 20 cents...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0051par0513	What's the big deal?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0049par0514	So don't defend the lie.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0051par0515	Tell me where you're stuck.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0049par0516	...and the price of the PTT is only in folded newspapers for 20 cents. Our Izmir County Agency can't send anything less than 50 cents, so 720,000 here is a business at the expense of the public. So all of this forces the two ministers to resign. If you're going to do an honorable job, Mr. Secretary -- make it a first in your life -- resign, clear that seat. (Applause from CHP) Make the first one happen in Turkey; your lie has been exposed; you can no longer sit there with this lie.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0052par0518	Maybe the Minister paid out of his pocket.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0049par0519	Make sure I don't let this go anymore, and our group won't let it go. Thank you for your concern.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0053par0522	Thank you, Mr. Oyan. Lehte...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0054par0524	Mr. President, look, Mr. Secretary has responded to the allegations, and then you promised Mr. Oyan. Mr. Secretary would like to respond to these allegations, if I may...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0055par0525	Mr. Secretary is raising a finger.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0053par0526	Mr. Shandır, I didn't see the Minister's request. Of course I'll give it to the Minister if he wants it, why shouldn't I?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0054par0527	No luck, sir. It's lucky here, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0053par0528	I'm sorry. I'm so sorry, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0054par0529	The Minister wants it, sir. He's there.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0053par0530	Of course I promise the Minister, I promise the government, why not.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0056par0531	Friend Minister's lawyer.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0053par0532	Please... Here you go, Mr. Günay.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0057par0535	Mr. President, my dear friends, Mr. Oyan is trying to turn a claim that a letter was sent to all of our voters during the election in İzmir into an act of corruption. Now, we wrote two ministers -- two candidates at the time -- yes, and it's all about funding and organization. Who did a letter go to, how many people did it go to or not, and it's out of my hands that I follow it one-on-one. I saw that some voters took, some voters didn't, so he went to some of them, especially us, Konak, in the major counties, some of the districts that I consider central. So he went by example. I said. The official number says he's been sent to everyone, and I didn't see him go to everyone -- I'd love to -- but that's what he says. We are a great political structure with millions of members, hundreds of thousands of supporters, election workers. Of course, in solidarity, all of this is financed, as in Turkey, everywhere. During the election, our friends brought a flash drive from Istanbul with a friend of ours and a few friends from my old election district, and they put it in a fancy pouch for the young to be distributed. Some of our friends are handing out gold, he said. In politics, look, we're in the same constituency, and we face each other a lot, and we try to support each other's righteous demands. No one tells such lies and dishonors such things as his dignity. It is shameful, and man is ashamed of them.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0058par0539	Isn't that rude of you?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0057par0540	I've been known for years in front of Turkey for political life, and I've been out of Parliament for 25 years. Some friends just took power from the seats they were in, and I stood by my own ideas and my integrity. There's not a penny in my life that I can't pay, no public property, no money that goes into my safe, no money that goes into my purse. My best Republican People's Party friends know that. If any of them don't know, I'm embarrassed.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0059par0541	How much did you spend on your pocket, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0057par0542	I mean, let's not be so proud of each other. It's all about respect for your choice.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0059par0543	How much did you spend on your pocket, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0057par0544	A letter has been written to the voter, and an entire Izmir organization has decided...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0060par0546	That's a lie, that's a lie!
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0059par0547	How much did you spend on your pocket, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0061par0548	Thank you, Mr. Günay.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0062par0549	I'm finishing...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0061par0550	Let's take your last words.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0063par0551	That's a lie, too!
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0064par0552	How much money did you spend not to get a personal election?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0065par0553	I mean, even a letter to a constituent who can't finance it in solidarity between you -- and I'm telling you again -- if you're jealous of it, I'd be very sorry for you. The General Assembly...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0063par0554	That's a lie, Mr. Secretary, and that's a lie!
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0065par0555	Please be careful when using the word lying.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0063par0556	The organization didn't finance him, and the finance company did. The organization didn't finance him, and that's a lie.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0065par0557	When using the word "lie"
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0066par0559	Thank you, Mr. Günay.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0067par0560	Mr. Secretary, have you spent any money on your pocket?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0068par0561	How much did you spend?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0066par0562	It's off the table. In favor of the group's proposal, Mr. Shandır, MP of Mersin. Here you go, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0069par0569	Thank you. Mr. President, I don't want to get in the middle of this discussion, but there has to be a pattern. I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group in favor of a group proposal. I salute you and your high council. The group's proposal: a commission is required to determine the measures to be taken by identifying the problems of journalists and to set an example for the world of freedom of press and expression in our country. They're recommending a group to bring this request up. The acceptance of the group's proposal, we know that the progress we know about rejection, that progress is going to happen, but I also feel it's important to have the opportunity to talk about a very fundamental problem in our country by doing so. That's freedom of the press. Dear lawmakers, freedom of the press is the most important value and common denominator for each part of Turkey, its opposition with its power and the entire political institution. It is impossible for a country that has failed to achieve freedom of the press to produce a common mind, to create the rights, to question corruption, to express the expectations of society, to ensure that the system works well. Freedom of the press, indeed, is an essential condition for the freedom of thought, opinion, expression to be offered freely to society, a very basic human right, a very important standard of development reached by civilized societies. See, valued lawmakers, the issue that freedom of the press is going back and forth in Turkey is now persistently expressed by all parts of society. It's important to discuss the problems of arrested journalists, but more importantly, the standards of freedom of the press, freedom of expression and press are far behind in Turkey every year. We, the National Movement Party, insist on each and every floor. We don't approve of unlawful intervention in the will of the nation, the Parliament of the people, and the political power out of this Parliament. We don't find it right. Therefore, journalists or others today are under indictment on charges of establishing an armed terrorist organization to eliminate the will of the nation. There's no way to accept these proceedings that have turned into punishment. Let's defend the will of the nation, give unconditional support to the fight against terrorism, but in the name of these two common values, it would be a mistake to see us as a way to restrict press freedom. It's hard to believe that the press isn't free, that in the name of society, that the public isn't expressing its expectations, its rights, that the opposition isn't expressing its views, its criticisms, it's not writing, it's talking, it's not believing the claims of a country about the future. In this regard, unfortunately, Turkey is going backwards every day. As I was on my way here, for example, on the day of journalists who work on January 10th, Mr. President says: "This is a problem, Mr. President, that the presence of a free press and that the press will carry out their duties without any direction or pressure." Really, it's a problem. This many journalists are under arrest, and I don't mean to get into any of this. But because of what you've written today, because of what you think, even because of your imagination, it's not possible to find the state of long imprisonment that has turned into a punishment for being a member of a terrorist organization because of your dreams. Likewise, Mr. President says: the protection and development of freedom of expression of press is one of the most important requirements of democratic society. There is such a need that Mr. President feels the need to express that necessity. It's Reporter's Day on January 10th. Parliamentary Journalists Association publishes a statement, saying: "We used to celebrate January 10 as a holiday, we celebrated it as Labor Journalists' Day, but there was no chance of celebrating it as a holiday. With so many journalists under arrest, with so much pressure on the newspapers, there's no way to celebrate it as a holiday. Dear lawmakers, I have just stated that this Parliament, this General Assembly, this General Assembly, has taken away the right of press owners, press employees, to wear out by making decisions in which we are present. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have an important matter for you. One of the things that every party celebrates today is that it needs to be remembered on Working Journalists Day, so I'm saying that if necessary, it's that we've taken away the right to wear out the journalists. But we've seen journalists die in the Van earthquake, die in the fire. The threat of unemployment is hanging over every journalist today like the sword of a Damocles. Unsubstantiated journalists, lack of social rights. This Parliament owes journalists, or rather, our own future, a responsibility to resolve these problems. That's why I'm telling you. Dear MPs, our country really has a lot of problems. If it's a necessity to create a common mind on the solution to these problems, the press has to be free to meet that obligation. If we can't socialize different ideas, non-insulting criticisms, society's expectations, through the press, if we can't publicize them, if we can't put them ahead of power, then our concerns about our future will really grow every day. And here it is today -- Mr. President -- Mr. Prime Minister also has statements -- that concerns about the press freedom expressed by the Prime Minister and the journalists -- are unfortunately reaching the height of our Parliament's agenda at any moment. Our Turkey, see, is quickly questioned on the international plane at the point of freedom of press and the criteria for freedom of expression. It's falling back every day. In this regard, the European Parliament, the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mr. Sergeantoglu spoke here, but the same assembly has reports accusing Turkey, reports from the European Union, reports from international journalists on this issue. That's why I'm telling you, good lawmakers, as long as the press is in trouble, it's impossible for our democracy to move forward to democracy. And another thing to say: if the political majority of opposition parties at this point and at similar points make it a procedure to reject every demand they bring here, I'm really concerned that there won't be much this Assembly can do about the solution of Turkey's problems, about meeting our responsibilities to create a common mind to the community. Therefore, we demand that a commission be set up in our Parliament to investigate the problems of the press, the issues of freedom of the press, the measures that need to be taken, and we demand that a commission be set up to investigate the problems of the press workers, as well as to investigate the issues of freedom of the press, as well as to be considered by these arrested journalists who are not really fit for Turkey.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0070par0584	Please complete your statement, Your Honor.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0069par0585	Meanwhile, the Justice and Development Party Group boasts that it represents national will and is here with the power of national will. If that's the case, I'd like to remind you that you have a responsibility to object to the continued arrests of people who have been elected by the will of the nation, as well as to do what is necessary. This doesn't suit Turkey. In Turkey today, I don't think it's appropriate for you to run a country where even the chiefs of staff are accused of building and running an armed terrorist organization. This needs to be developed. And I repeat: with the problems of press freedom of expression and the problems of arrested journalists and all newspaper employees, we approve, support and demand the establishment of a commission to investigate the problems of journalists.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0070par0588	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Against Chandırı MP İdris Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0071par0592	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the CHP group proposal. On this occasion, I salute you. With the group's proposal, the CHP demands that the motion to investigate the situation of arrested journalists be put on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey today. First of all, I have to state from here that the situation of the arrested journalists, mentioned in the research motion, is strictly a matter of the judiciary. There is a violation of Article 138 of the Constitution from this bench almost every day. Article 138 of the Constitution is very clear and regulates the independence of the courts. In the matter, the authorities are independent in their duties; they judge according to their conscience, in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the law. No body, authority, authority, or person can give orders or instructions to courts and judges in the use of judicial authority; they cannot send them into the generalty; they cannot advise and preach. There is no question about the use of judicial authority in the Legislative Assembly, no discussion, no statement. I'm afraid we see that this sentence has been repeatedly violated in our Parliament. From here, talks that would mean interference in the judiciary are constantly being held. It is possible, of course, to criticize the decisions made by the judiciary, but it is not possible for the Constitution to make statements aimed at interfering with the judiciary, to address, or even to make a statement at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on a matter that has been brought to trial. It is also a great injustice to our members of the judiciary who have been involved in the investigations carried out by the EC PARTI, to associate with the government, to make statements to influence the fair trial, to make statements for the wear of the judiciary, to present a very large and very serious accusation in these cases, thousands of pages of evidence and hundreds of defendants who are trying to uncover the truth. Dear lawmakers, the charge that journalists have been arrested and convicted for writing has been repeated on the floor of Parliament and beyond. Critics have been intense in Turkey that media freedom has been restricted recently. We cannot accept these allegations and criticisms. As for the number of prisoners and prisoners in prisons, some NGOs provide various figures that are not based on healthy data. Among them are media reports that 72 journalists have been arrested and convicted in a statement issued by Turkey's Journalists' Union. The Ministry of Justice has announced the matter to the public by making the necessary assessments on this matter. According to the list of journalists' Union of Turkey, three of the 72 arrested and convicted names have not been registered in prisons, while six of them have been released. Sixty-three of the names on the list are still in prison. A lawsuit has been filed against 36 of these 63 names, and sentence decisions have been made concerning 18 of them. 27 people are still under investigation. Of the 63 people in prisons, 18 have press cards and 45 have no press cards. Of the 36 people indicted or convicted, four are in prison for the crime of inciting a terrorist organization, which may be considered one of the crimes committed by the press. The presence of 32 other prisoners and prisoners in prison has nothing to do with journalistic activity. In connection with 27 ongoing investigations, these individuals will be seen only when the indictment is prepared for what crimes and actions they were arrested for because of the covert investigations. All 27 ongoing names appear to be in prison for crimes that have nothing to do with journalistic activity, such as membership in an armed terrorist organization. Of the 63 arrested and convicted prisoners in prisons, 59 have been arrested and convicted for crimes that were alleged to have been committed through the press, not because of their writings and journalism activities, but because of crimes that had nothing to do with the press. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, especially when we look at the types of these crimes, we face creepy crimes. These include killing men, robbing banks, looting, extortion, threats, falsification in official documents, falsifying identity, unauthorized possession of dangerous substances, forced attempt to change constitutional order, membership in PKK armed terrorist organization, use pistols and false police identity during the action, and another one of them is to say, "Hi, Imralı, a thousand hello!" Is destroying documents related to state security, using them out of context, stealing them, aiding and abetting an armed terrorist organization, raising money on behalf of an armed terrorist organization, yes, valuable lawmakers, and prosecutions carried out on their claims related to journalism duty? Therefore, the issue of arrested and convicted journalists must be assessed not only in figures, but in terms of whether the crimes alleged to have been committed or committed are part of journalistic activity. There is no way that arrests and convictions based on allegations that have nothing to do with journalistic activity can be interpreted as a violation of press freedom. In addition, it can never be right for the government to consider the arrests and convictions carried out by independent judicial bodies as pressing press. In recent years, important legal regulations have been made in Turkey to move freedom of press and expression further, and the work is carried out with a liberal understanding. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are not part of the freedom of thought to lay the groundwork for the coup. There is no crime in what is written, nor in what is written, in order to wear out the government. In the framework of freedom of the press, everyone will say what they want, and they will. From morning until evening, TV broadcasts continue to be brutally criticised against the government. Newspapers continue to publish magazines. However, when we look at the investigations carried out by the judiciary, we see that the investigations had nothing to do with freedom of the press. Dear lawmakers, you may be criticized by the government, you may also criticize the EC PARTY, but it is very wrong of the Turkish community to present those who have done what we consider to be criminal types above, completely innocent and because of journalistic activity.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0072par0602	How do you know? You were just saying that.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0071par0603	Because I say it's a desecration to real journalists, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0073par0605	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. [[A group of CHP MPs stood up]] Mr. President, we want a roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Ediboğlu, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Topal, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Öğer, Mr. Ösüçün, Mr. Özsüşüşmiş, Mr. Şüçük, Mr. Şeşer, Mr. Çayük, Mr. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration; I will have it read and processed, and then I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly My 2/28 First Amendment Proposal is not in the Commission in 45 days, so the Civil Charter is 37. In accordance with the terms of the matter, I respectfully submit to the need to be brought up directly. 24.11.2011 In favour of the motion, Ardahan MP Ensar Öğün as the bidder. Here you go, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0074par0628	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a pledge to the Agriculture Bank and to the farm loan co-op to rebuild my debt to the law. I salute you all. Dear friends, all of us are masters of the village. We say, "The Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said so, but we saw in the days of this government that the peasant was enslaved, not master." We passed a law on June 12, 2003, the construction of the farmers' debt. It's been eight and a half years since then, but right now, there are people who owe money from that day, and they've been in debt for eight and a half years. Mr. President, these people don't want to listen, lawmakers, there's a lot of buzzing.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0075par0631	Here you go, Mr. Reminder. Congressmans, let's keep it down. Here you go, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0076par0634	But, please, I'd like you to give me a little extra time.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0075par0635	Please continue. Congressmans, please be quiet.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0076par0637	Right now, when we count our farmers and peasants in Turkey, it's one third of Turkey's worth of friends -- 30 per cent. A crowd of 30 percent of them deal with agriculture and livestock, and they're a lot of victims. Look, for agricultural products, $100 billion has paid since this government arrived, out. Not our own village, not our farmer, not our own village, not our own farmer. Look, an illegal animal has come to Turkey since 2002. We said to stop the runaway animal, support the peasant, give him credit. This isn't happening. Where are we? In 2010, he was forced to import animals, and in the history of the Republic of Turkey and Turkey, unfortunately, this government was involved in an imported sacrifice. Now, imported animals, imported sacrifices, peasant and family business are dead. Therefore, right now, our peasant and farmer are very victimized. He's dead, he's out of agricultural products, so he sells his wheat, he can't buy diesel. Right now, there's a credit system, they can't take advantage of this credit system, everyone wants collateral. All the banks say that if you guarantee your home in the city centre, I'll give you a loan. Dear friends, if the peasant has a house downtown, if he has a building, why would he live in the village? Then why don't you take his place in the village as collateral? Besides that, right now, our villageman on winter day is very miserable; his support for farmers has not been paid, his food plants haven't been paid. Look, we're faced with a painful reality here in Van. The books of the farmers in Van have yet to be accounted for. Why doesn't the government send employees to Minister of Agriculture Van? I talked to the Van County Agriculture Manager, and he says we couldn't make drinks because we didn't have an employee. Bait plants can't pay for it. Now, there's gonna come a drink from there, so this place is paid for. Dear friends, that's why the feed plant money needs to be paid immediately. Right now, snow, winter, apocalypse, people are trying to bring their animals into the spring. When will the feeding plant money be paid and not paid today? If the food plants are not paid today, believe me, honestly, people will be even more victims. Look, if you'd like to go to the villages with me, the villagers are very miserable. Mr. President, will you give me a minute?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0077par0645	Go ahead, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0076par0647	I'll set myself up for him. Dear friends, let me tell you, the gas money, the fertilizer money, the food plant money, the water products money must be paid immediately. I've spoken to the authorities, and they say, "We can either pay in March or we won't pay in March." What will my dear friend do if he stays in March -- what will people do until spring? 70 cents a pound of hay, 70 cents a pound of hay... people's animals don't pay, consumers get worse. That's why the Grand National Assembly...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0077par0650	Please complete your statement, Mr. Öğümün. Congressmans, if you'll be quieter...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0076par0652	Dear friends, as a solution to democracy and our people's problems, I see the Great National Assembly. In the bill I've given you... farmers owe money to the Bank of Agriculture, they owe money to the agricultural loan co-ops, and I demand the adoption of this law proposal to restructure those debts. If this bill is accepted, then there will be at least one improvement in the farmers' debt and farmers will be able to breathe comfortably. Also -- again, I beg you -- bait plants demand immediate payment of their money, and I offer all of you with respect.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0077par0654	Thank you, Mr. Öpün. Burdur MP Ramadan Kerim Özkan. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0078par0657	Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers -- the issue we want to bring directly to the agenda -- was a restructuring of debt to agriculture loans with the Agriculture Bank Anonymous Company of Turkey. And that configuration is not to take interest. You were saying? The interest is forbidden, one interest is equal to one thousand. This is what we hear from our teachers, and that is what we hear from our elders. So we say that you have the authority, the farm bank of farmers, producers, agriculture loans, one to make two, two to make four, four to make eight, farmers to borrow. Because this farmer's got a lot on his plate, fighting the fox, fighting the rat, fighting the virus, fighting the fungus, fighting the thief, he's got a lot on his plate. In terms of interest, we want to make a improvement by removing interest. That's what this bill includes. If you vote, these farmers, these beets producers, the potato makers, the hash producers, the anise manufacturers, in this case, we'll have reduced the damage of the producers who were damaged from the rains, from nature, from the frost. That's the content of our bill. It's going to be a loss of duty in the House of Agriculture. One of the great economies of the world is our country, you say. And in that sense, where we're going, we're erasing some of the debt from other foreign countries, and that's what's being done. In a sense, we want this powerful state to erase the debt and interest of these farmers. Look, we don't want to be cruel, we don't want to be cruel. Oh, I'll take it. And Allah withholds from the wrong-doers the provision of those who do wrong. You're getting an apocalypse. I'd like to share those statements with you. There's a theater here where judges who are at the disposal of biased political authority only play. They call it "judgment," "democracy." This is not a democracy, nor is it a distribution of justice. There's no escape for them. They can't escape, they love their country. Let us not be judged. They do not say, but are already judged. They want to come to Parliament and take their vows and perform their duties within the 90th article of the Constitution and other provisions. But these duties are unfortunately blocked by some judges. I can't bear to call them judges because the judge is the one who acts on his conscience, and the judge is the one who knows the expectations and feelings of society and respects it. A conscience above all else. Could it be a judge who doesn't act on his conscience? There are international contracts signed by the Republic of Turkey. When you ignore them and I read what I know, what I know and what I say is true. If you set out with logic, you will not be able to distribute justice. Therefore, a debate is being held about the president of the Republican People's Party. As this Parliament, we have to solve this problem, my dear friends. Again, when it comes down to it, Mr. Prime Minister says at a group meeting in 2010: 67,000 people were given loans in 2002. But in our time, 18,279 people were given loans a week. There are subsidies among them, without subsidies. That means the citizen's on credit. Why is it loaded? Because it's to improve your condition. Does a guy with money run into a bank, a loan? Is he looking for a sponsor? Is he looking for bail? He won't. So the status of the citizen is pathetic. So, in terms of this restructuring, we need your votes to pay off the loans without interest, which includes our law proposal. Again, I'd like to extend my regards to all of you, and my love to all of you, thinking that your votes would be yes.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0079par0662	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0080par0664	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit01spe0079par0665	We've got enough to decide... All those in favor... those who don't accept... there's enough to decide, it's not accepted. Congressmans, I'm gonna take a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0079par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're moving on to the agenda for oral questions. In the presentations section, I'm reading the oral questions that Minister of Culture and Tourism Mr. Ertugrul Günay had asked to answer together: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, my following questions should be answered verbally by the Minister of Customs and Trade. 14.7.2011 The Ardahan Crazy Aktaş gate was built on roads and customs buildings on the Georgian side. With the door opened, trade will flourish in all Ardahan, especially Mad, and unemployment will end, and migration will stop. In order to open the Gate of Madness, we have the efforts of our county administrators along with our people. 1- The road and customs buildings on the Georgia side of the Aktaş border crossing have been built. With this door opened, trade will grow in Ardahan, unemployment will end, and therefore the migration will stop. When will the Aktaş border gate open for all of this to happen? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Ertugrul Günay. 14.7.2011 With restorations of the fortress of the Battlers and the castles of the goalkeepers in the lake in Ardahan Posof, the cultural sites will be opened to internal and external tourism, making it important for the recognition of the region and for the preservation of our culture. 1- Ardahan Posof, the fortress of Wars and Kalecik, which is located at Lake, will be restored, and new jobs will be opened as well as recognition of the region, and trade will improve and migration will cease, as unemployment will be prevented. When will the restoration of these castles begin? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Ertugrul Günay. 14.7.2011 Ardahan Satan's castle will be maintained and repaired, with the opening of domestic tourism and foreign tourism and a significant source of income in the region, and it will also be an important source of recognition for the region, and the Kharnak fortress in Hanak will also have to be maintained and open to internal and external tourism. 1- Our fellow citizens in Ardahan are living under long winter conditions, and because the working day is short, other ways must be found, preventing unemployment and migration. A new source of income will be found when the maintenance and restoration of the castles of the Devil and the castles of the Kharnak in Ardahan will be restored to the ministry. When will the restoration of the castles take place? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Ertugrul Günay. 26.7.2011 The building in Ardahan Province, Karagöl district, which was known as the convention building in Ardahan, which served as the health department for a while, was protected and will be used as a city museum in Ardahan, but the investments were in vain, and it is not clear what the building will be used for now. 1) The building known as the Capitol building in Ardahan, protected and known as the Ardahan city museum is currently unknown. When will it be a city museum? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Ertugrul Günay. 21.7.2011 The healing spas found in Ağrı Diyadin have played a major role in the development of 26,000 inhabitants of the district. Once the number of beds is increased in the spas, more tourists will arrive in the district and the province will be cut off, and the migration will be prevented. 1) The construction of more modern substructures of healing hot springs in the district of Diyadin, Ağrı Province, will contribute greatly to the country's economy, as well as to the district's economy. Will you do a study to build a new and bed-access hotel, especially in the environment of healing hot springs? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Ertugrul Günay. 21.7.2011 Transverters in Van Basile district, which resembles Pamukkale, are not wanted because of the road. Travertens in the village of Dere, about 100 miles [50 km] from the town centre of Van are looking for interest in its natural wonder appearance. 1) When the transverters in Van Baskale district are organised, they will make a major contribution to the province's economy, preventing unemployment and migration. Will you do a study to open the Traverten area to tourism by setting up the environment? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Ertugrul Günay. 20.7.2011 In addition to its cultural value in Kars Sarıkamis, the Katarina mansion, which is home to historical events, has been left to rot because of lack of care, carelessness, and disintegration. We don't claim our cultural values and we don't claim historical heritage. 1) What will you do to ensure the maintenance and restoration of the historic Katarina mansion in Kars Sarıkamis? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following question be answered verbally by Minister of Culture and Tourism Mr. Ertugrul Günay. Dr. Reşat Right Question: What main projects will be put first for the slap on tourism? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Tourism and Culture, Mr. Ertugrul Günay. 12.9.2011 Kars Ani, five churches about 15 miles [25 km] from the ancient city were devastated by lack of care and carelessness. It is one of the few tourist and cultural areas in Kars, where foreign tourists are often the first to visit. In some areas, cultural beings are being brought to light by archaeological studies spent millions of dollars. 1-Kars Ani, 10 miles from the ancient city and the Church of the Fives, where foreign tourists visit each year, has begun to be devastated by lack of care and carelessness, are you going to start a study to ensure that this cultural place doesn't collapse? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Ertugrul Günay. 6.9.2011 A new military defense structure, called Tabya, has emerged, as the castles have lost all importance in the wars. Ardahan, a strategic position during the Ottoman Russian wars, has been strengthened with plates, making it an important defence centre. It's a historical heritage with barracks underground built on a hill about 2,500 metres high. In Ardahan, it is necessary to restore its historical and tourist structure, which is very important in the 93 wars. 1- Will you do a study on restoring the plate found in Ardahan and opening up the work needed to preserve history and cultural heritage as soon as possible? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the following questions, the Minister of Culture and Tourism, Ertugrul Günay, 98th of the Constitution. And the House Civil Code 99. I respectfully submit that the clause should be answered verbally. 1- Do you agree to name Xanî in Erimede, a Kurdish art, science, philosophy, and literature person whose most important work by your ministry, "Mem ü Zin," as well as an education or cultural institution? 2- When will the restoration of Isaac Paşa Palace in Ağrı Eastbayyet end? Is the restoration done in accordance with its original essence? 3- Will you have any initiatives to protect historical heritage and cultural monuments found in Ağrı and districts? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask the following questions to be answered verbally by Minister of Culture and Tourism Mr. Ertugrul Günay. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light In connection with the allegations that staff working under the titles of Sociologist, Museum Investigator, Book Pathologist, Archives and Librarians have been working in technical services class and that the Ministry of Finance bureaucrats, although they have graduated from faculty, have failed to obtain their rights to their rights to receive salaries on the level of high school-school-educated YHS personnel; 1-How many employees are employed by the titles mentioned within your ministry? If that's true, does your Ministry have an opinion on this? 4- Is your Ministry working on the level of archeologists and statisticians associated with the NGO? If so, where is the study? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following questions are 96 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the clause, I would like to request that it be delivered to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and answered verbally by Mr. Minister of Culture and Tourism. 20.10. 2011 In the Frigya Valley, the Seyit Battal Veterans of the Seyitgazi district of Eskişehir continues to work on its historical properties and even break them. The historical properties of this work are considered to be transferred to Anadolu University for development. 1) The damage to the artifact is constant. Have there been any administrative investigations of officials who continue to renovate the artifact by damaging it, making a tender, accepting it? 2) Why hasn't there been an investigation so far? 3) Do you intend to investigate from now on? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following questions are 96 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the clause, I would like to request that it be delivered to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and answered verbally by Mr. Minister of Culture and Tourism. 20.10.2011 Eskişehir, Seyitgazi district of the Frigia Valley, is concerned about the villages or dwellings that are expected to be moved because of the Cube Baba monument in the village of Seyitgazi; 1) Are you planning to contribute any economic contribution to the village despite your efforts to speed up the moving process? 2) If such a plan exists, what is considered to be the measure of economic contribution? 3) Do you plan to produce modern, modern, modern, living dwellings for the peasant, using the TOKI for such moving? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following questions are 96 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the clause, I would like to request that it be delivered to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and answered verbally by Mr. Minister of Culture and Tourism. 20.10.2011 Ashluoba Höyük, located in Yenikent village district of Seyitgazi district, has been working for many years. However, the work is very brief because the amount of funds that must be split each year are very small. However, excavations predicted to reveal important information in the history of Central Anatolia must continue to increase. That's why... 1) Do you plan to increase funds for historical excavations in the region, particularly the Ashluoba Höyümü? 2) Do you have a study in which students and workers and professors who work at these digs are paid for their labors or paid to pay for them? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following questions are 96 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the clause, I would like to request that it be delivered to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and answered verbally by Mr. Minister of Culture and Tourism. 20.10.2011 The Bahşesh monument in Gökbahçe village of Eskişehir Seyitgazi County, located in the historic Frigia Valley, is an unguarded monument, as important as it is important and important. However, because of the protection decision, healing studies are permitted around it. It's in this direction; 1) Is the historical value and significance of this monument right next to the village considered for maintenance and repairs? 2) If this monument is made an economic and social contribution to the people of his village, is any action being carried out by the thought that it will be protected? 3) The area where the monument is located is economically harmful to the village because of the possibility of being under a dam pond that could be done for the village's need for irrigation. Is there any study to repair this damage? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following questions are 96 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the clause, I would like to request that it be delivered to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and answered verbally by Mr. Minister of Culture and Tourism. 20.10.2011 Eskişehir, Afyon and Kütahya are one of the most important settlements of the ancient age called Frigya Valley. The Midas Memorial remains within the borders of this valley, which is considered to be the symbol of our Eskişehir. In that sense, 1) Have your authorities identified the inscription monument in need of serious care and repair? 2) Would you agree that in order for this monument to survive, the work must be initiated immediately? 3) Is protection and healing in the valley planned? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Culture and Tourism Minister Ertugrul Günay. Yours truly. Our Kahramanmarash Province is rich in agriculture and animalism as well as in industrial and tourism potential. Our province, with a population of over 1 million, expects significant investments from the government in all areas. 1. What investments do you plan to invest in our Kahramanmarash Province for 2012? 2. As the ministry, what investments were launched or carried out in our province during 2011? 3. What year do you intend to complete the ongoing or planned investments? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Culture and Tourism Minister Ertugrul Günay. Yours truly. Heromarash has very important opportunities for health tourism. The Solomonian Belt, particularly where thermal water sources are available, is very convenient. 1. These thermal resources, which are 70km from the center of the city, are under difficult circumstances due to the very low road. Do you have a plan for easy access? 2. Do you have any work on improving infrastructure, particularly housing, and improving the quality of service, and establishing a physical therapy and rehabilitation centre to bring this region to tourism? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, the following questions will be answered verbally by Culture and Tourism Minister Ertugrul Günay. 21.11.2011 1. What are your projects and investments in Adana Ili and its districts by your ministry and its relevant institutions? 2. Are there any studies of the problems of your ministry's Adana Province? If so, what are you? 3. In connection with public services in Adana Province, how much is the grant from the 2012 fiscal year budget? 4. Is Adana short-staffed? If so, how will you compensate for the personnel deficit? 5. In regard to your field of duty, how do you assess the public services you've taken to Adana Province in terms of regional balances? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Tourism and Culture, Mr. Ertugrul Günay. 27.11.2011 The lack of enough books at the Ardahan Province centre and districts' schools in our villages is a major challenge for our students to gain the habit of reading. In order to meet the need for books, our students have to go to the town centre, which is a victim of the loss of access to both material burdens and eight months of snow in the region. 1- Will you do a study by your Ministry on sending books to Ardahan districts and villages in Ardahan province and because our students' knowledge and savings will increase, and will you do an immediate work to meet the needs of books? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Culture and Tourism Minister Ertugrul Günay. Yours truly. The disorganisation of various departmental central services is a victim of both institutional staff and service. The ministry institutions, which distribute into districts and districts and serve separately, are stated to have served in rental buildings. 1. How many different districts and districts do your ministry headquarters serve? 2. Do you have a departmental central service unit that serves rental buildings? 3. How many rental buildings does it serve as a unit? 4. How much rent is paid per month and per year for your units that serve in rental buildings? 5. Do you plan to get your department's headquarters out of this messy structure and assemble it under one roof? 6. Do you have any work on this? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Culture and Tourism Mr. Ertugrul Günay. Prof. Dr. Zühal Topcu According to State Officers Act 657 of public institutions and organisations, the staff they employ is obliged to employ 3% of the entire staff of the relevant institution or organisation. 1- In 2010 and 2011, your ministry and its institutions and organisations According to Law 657, what are the number of disabled personnel that he employs and the number of disabled staff he needs to run? Is there a disability deficit in your ministry and your ministry's institutions and institutions under Law 2-657 under the obligation to employ disabled personnel? If so, how much is the lack, and have the demands for the removal of this deficiency been forwarded to the State Staff President? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Culture and Tourism Minister Ertugrul Günay. Yours truly. In our district of Afşin, which has significant tourist potential, some restorations in historical buildings must be launched. Do you have any work on restoring mosaics in the garden of Fort 1-History Hurman and Afshinbey School? Do you plan on working on that? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Culture and Tourism Minister Ertugrul Günay. Yours truly. The government is always seeking the sacrifice of workers, civil servants, pensioners and minimum wagers on the grounds of "nothing." Our citizens, who are struggling to deliver this sacrifice to their homes, expect the greatest sacrifice from the government. 1. How many vehicles do your ministry's central services serve in your institutions? How many of these vehicles are rented? 2. In 2010 and 2011, a total amount of money was paid for companies and rental vehicles (such as maintenance, repair, diesel and rent costs). 3. Is there a residence in your ministry? If so, how many houses do you have in total? How many of these residences do your bureaucrats live in? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Culture and Tourism Mr. Ertugrul Günay. 06.12.2011 Prof. Dr. Mustafa Erdem How many historical monuments (cami, masjit, shrine, baths) are present in Ankara Castle and around it? B) In what stage is the restoration of these historical artifacts? C) What is the final status of the work under Ulus and Ankara fortress? d) When is it scheduled to be finished? e) What is the estimated cost as a result of this restoration activity? F) What firms or companies have been tendered? G) How much of the property of the houses referred to as the restored Ankara house belongs to the public? Whose use are the people who belong to the public? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0081par0238	Mr. President, my dear friends, thank you very much for my friends who ask questions. I'll try to answer them as much as possible in time. But first, on Working Journalists Day, I want to honor my fellow journalists who work and can't work at the beginning of my words. The first question is, Mr. Ensar Öğümün to our Minister of Customs and Trade, and I took it upon myself. Mr. Öğüt asks the oral question motion (6/9) when the Crazy-Aktaş customs door will start working. It was decided on 27/1/2011 by the High Planning Board for restructuring as part of the do-and-work model, and the adoption and allocation of the land planned to be built on this issue was concluded by Ardahan Governorate; the company's deployment and the signing of the application contract for the company will begin and will begin work, and I believe, at the end of 2012. Again, Mr. Ensar Öğün (6/16), (6/17), (6/76), (6/92), (6/93) and (6/105). He's got questions. Mr. Öğüt asks about the castles in Ardahan, the castle of Satan, the fortress of the Battles in Posof, the castle of the Kharnak in Hanak, and the restorations of Kalecik Castle in Lake. My dear friends, we're trying to raise historical artifacts from all over Turkey, indiscriminately. Of course, it's not enough for all of them in a year or a few years. We have important work on Ardahan Castle. The plates were in another question. And in 2015, on the 100th anniversary of 1915, all of this, I think, will be finished with plates and castles, and we're trying to do all of it as much as possible. Again, there's a question about the Capitol. The Ardahan Capitol has been transferred to private administration, and the private administration is designing a city museum -- based on our information. If they ask us for any help in making science and museums, we're prepared to do that as Ministry, but we're not, so if they hand it over to us, if they hand it over to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, we'll do the quick work we need to do to make the Capitol a museum. Regarding the Pain Diyadin hot springs... we have an ad for thermal tourism centers here... in ancient times, 1993, but here we have asked the relevant institutions for the results of their planning work, negative responses from State Water Affairs and Village Services General Directorate. The State Waterworks mentioned that Murat Dam remained in the reservoir area, and the Village Services mentioned that it was an agricultural area, and since negative responses came, we were unable to conclude these plans. Of course, since we haven't completed the planning work, it's not possible for us to allocate a public land from here right now. There's a question about the Traverstens -- the Van Basket. I believe my friend will have to answer later, since these final arrangements have been passed on to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism as the authority for cultural and natural assets and regulations around them. There are two wooden mansions in the area of Sarıkamish, known as the Kacterina Mansion and the Fat Mansion, from the Russian occupation. It really is a source of sadness inside of me. In 2008, the Kars Special Administration applied to us with information that it would be assigned. But there has been no development, unfortunately, over the course of the time, and again, we have received a refund from the Treasury to assess it as tourism. Now we want to change the quality of culture and tourism and go on the ad. We've made demands both as a healer and financially needed to care for him because he's been so neglected during the time we handed him over to the Special Administration, and because he's rightfully critical in the press, we've also sent resources. I think it's...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0082par0248	It's also very important to the Sarkami martyrs. If there's a revision there...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0081par0249	I know, I've been around the structures. The structures aren't as bright as they are right now, but I'm looking for a private investor. If there's a private investor, you're welcome. Katerina Mansion and Fat House can't be a housing facility, but it could be a place to eat and drink. Besides, there are some buildings that the military has abandoned, and again, they have old cer workshops. We're trying to use all of this for culture and tourism in a mausoleum in Sarikamis, but we have to admit, it's not so easy to find investors. So if you're saying there's an investor, I'm willing to help you physically. Some of our friends say that if we have declared a tourist zone in a region, the state goes there immediately, building a housing facility or a food-drinking place. That's not what's happening. We're just planning, responding as allocations, but private enterprise has to invest in these areas. We're just trying to take precautions. I know these two structures very well, and I'm following them closely. Mr. Reshat Right has questions. (6/11) We found the Zinav Center for thermal tourism after a trip to Tokat. We're doing an ad for the Slap Akbelen Yayla tourist centre again. In our East Black Sea, which I, Amasya, and Tokat, I also communicate to some extent, we have a serious effort to join the plateaus with the East Black Sea into the tourist route. In this frame, the Slap is a feature for us. In Tokat, 2010 and 2011, we saved over 1 million resources for infrastructure work, you know that. We're trying to evaluate the slap in case there's a demand for national and international fairs, and we're trying to make the necessary publications for introductions. And there's a lot of historical artifacts in the slap; there's Bedesten of Arasta, there's the Maurabasan Med, as I recall. The restoration of Bedesten of Arasta is finished, and the foundations are finished. We've requested the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, and they've rented us quite a lot of money. We're doing an exhibition study right now. I think when the exhibition study is over, I hope we'll have a new, very flashy cultural place in Tokat, in that region -- Amasya, Tokat, Sivas -- as a cultural path.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0083par0257	Mr. Secretary, just a minute. Mr. Right, I assume you have a commitment request. He wants an explanation again. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0084par0261	Minister, I thank you very much. We've been following your work very closely.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0085par0262	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0084par0263	However, there is a city of Sebastopolis in Sulusaray.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0085par0264	I do.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0084par0265	The city of Sebastopolis is a very important place to be and to be discovered in terms of its historical properties. There's also the Ballican Cave, you know, you've seen it on Sunday. Ballica Cave, then, Niksar, the capital of the Danes, where we have works of great cultural values, we have historical works. And in that direction, I would like to express that we are waiting for your support. Thank you for your answers.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0086par0268	Thank you, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0087par0269	Of course, I thank you very much, Congressman, for your kindness. We made significant contributions to the restoration of the fortress Niksar. Niksar Castle is on a route that I know very well, and hopefully this summer, we'll get a chance to see it together again. In Sebastopolis, digging had stopped, and there was a problem with the dig team. This year, especially and primarily, it is included in the list of dig sites that we hope to reassess. There's already a study at the Ballica Cave. I think in the coming years, we will try to do what is necessary to promote Turkey's tourism. Mr. Ögüt. Önı has questions about Ani: (6/128), (6/146). Friends, there is no study of the five churches yet, but there have been important studies of Ani. First, with the Prime Minister's close surveillance, the 40km road problem was solved. There we have church, mosque, convent restorations from different civilizations. The World Memorial Fund also has a study of the Great Cathedral. I mean, we're trying to get Ani to stand up with all her works of Seljuk and Christian civilizations, but right now there's no special study of the five churches, and I want to make that clear. Mr. Aksoy, our Ağrı MP (6/232) has the main question. In pain, we have an zeal to raise cultural assets. There were some very wrong practices in the previous years at the Isaac Pasha Palace. I've been trying to keep a close eye on him in recent years. The last time I saw him, we needed a few more interventions, but he was back to doing as much actual work as possible, Isaac Pasha. We have a mosque restoration of foundations around Isaac Pasha, which can be called quite a bleacher. There's a Hamdi Hani shrine near Isaac Pasha. While the Ahmadi Hani Temple does not belong to us, I have personally tried to take care of it because it is a very special place in East Anatolia and Ağrı. And the last time I went there... now that the work has begun, we are trying to heal Ahmadi Hani Temple along with its surroundings. The building is new, but the name Ahmadi Hani is very old, so we try to make an arrangement that suits that name. Of course, we can name a cultural place after Ahmadi Hani. The pain is a special administration for the end of the cultural center, but we are trying to help. When it is finished, perhaps if the people of Pain agree, we will do so in the name of Ahmadi Hani. There's also a dig site in Patnos. In the area where I know very well, I'm a soldier...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0088par0279	Aznachor Hill... There's an area known as "Advantage Hill" or "Kot Hill" that's a mound. And there this year, I think we'll have started a drilling study, a museum investigation. Mr. Light, our Kütahya MP has a question (6/342). She's taken care of our librarian staff, and I really appreciate it. I'm grateful to all my friends who are interested in the rights of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism staff, because the Ministry of Culture and Tourism works largely in the private sector, especially in culture, in tourism, but friends in culture really, as librarians, are trying to create very small possibilities for museums and protect those possibilities. In recent years, we have been working hard to improve the rights of the Ministry -- especially this year, 2011 and 2012 -- of its employees. There have been some improvements in the final legislation; the conditions of our experts in the ministry, our experts, our municipal managers have improved a bit. We have about 500 librarians, museum investigators and book pathologists. We had these included in the class of technical services of folklore researchers and librarians and book pathologists in 2010. Now, like archaeologists, we're trying to get their status to rise, not to fall. I would like to express my gratitude and thanks to all my friends, who will contribute to this, who will support us in our negotiations with the Treasury, on behalf of the employees of my Ministry.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0089par0282	Just a minute, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0090par0284	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, I thank you very much for your sensitivity. Indeed, the staff of sociologists, museum researchers, book pathologists, archivists, librarians, who are currently working in your ministry, have been seriously working overtime, unfortunately, but the peer-valued archaeologists and statisticians have not received their rights and have been waiting for this for two years. We know you've been working on this, too, but I think it would be very helpful to have this completed as soon as possible. Thank you, and I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0091par0287	Thank you, Mr. Light. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0092par0289	And thank you very much for your contribution, Mr. Light. If it was just our Ministry's decision, it'd be 17 p.m. right away. I don't know what time it's past 00, but we'll start implementing it tomorrow morning, but it's very important for other ministries to think about it. But I appreciate your concern and your contribution, thank you very much. Mr. Kurt. Mr. Kazim Kurt, our Eskişehir MP (6/402), (6/416), 6/417, I believe, has the main questions. Seyit Battal Ghazi is one of the most important stops of belief tourism and cultural treasure in Anatolia. If there are errors in the practices there, I'll try to control it through the Council, but all business and transactions related to Seyit Battal Gazi are conducted by the General Directorate of Foundations. It's not on our side, it's not our responsibility, and it's not on our side, it's not on our side, it's not a procedure, but I'm going to try to recheck through the board whether the restoration is appropriate. Kalmazı Seyitgazi district is a village in the village of Kümbet. Yes, in 2009, which is registered as the 1st degree archeological and natural status. The village and its surrounding area are three degrees archaeological and natural. They're trying to build a zoning plan here, a construction plan for protection. After that, property owners' land will be tried to trade for treasured land. I'm afraid we have this problem in a lot of places. History-sensitiveness has begun to rise in recent years, which is a happy development, but you can't immediately remove the residential areas above it. Here, you need to plan, you need to find suitable treasure land, or you need to nationalize it. We're trying to cooperate with the TOKI. We're trying to create new housing sites for them, and we're trying to transport these towns, villages. In Frig Valley, we have a lot of space in this frame. Again, Mr. Kurt (6/402) has the number-one question about the Ashluoba Höyük. We're digging here, my dear friends. We also make an effort to find significant additional resources for the transfer of funds. Now, look, the public, 2002, according to my figures, according to official figures, I believe our ministry is the source for excavations in the 2000s, up to 1 million by 2002. When I started, it was about 14 million at the end of 2007, but the source in an official general budget was less than 1 million, and it's still about 1-1.5 million. We're trying to raise these numbers with DSI resources, additional funds. In 2010, we came to 30 million -- the resources we've divided into the fields -- we've reached 40 million this year. So it's still about a million, two million, that's what we're getting out of the general budget. This year, we tried to fund the excavations by transferring funds from about 40 million different units. We do more than 120 digs. We're digging by order of the Council of Ministers. We're digging museums. More than 40 digs are being done. In recent years, I am pleased to say that the sensitivity for archeology in Turkey has increased greatly, and the public's importance and resources for archeology have increased greatly. Here, of course, some of our friends are volunteering. College teachers don't get paid for anything, they get paid for college, but they put up with the sacrifice to get scientific information. College students work, teachers appreciate a small fee. Other than that, workers from the area are being employed. The workers in the area are separated and tried to be given the same way as the workers in that area were determined, and we are trying to give them enough resources for the duration of their work as many as 45 days, 3 months, or so long as any of our teachers want to work on the dig. Again, there is a fundamental question from Mr. Kurt (6/416) about the Bahşesh Memorial in Gökbahçe, Seyitgazi district. There's a watering pond project in this area. We're predicting a protection project. After the containment project arrives, the final decision on the irrigation pond will be made. As much as it might be, we're trying to protect the Frig Tomb over there, but now the Frig Valley is a very rich valley, but unfortunately it's not well-groomed. In this region, a Frig Valley Cultural Heritage Protection and Development Union was formed last year between Kütahya, Eskişehir and Afyonkarahisar provinces to improve the quality of care in accordance with the historical property of the region; this is a new Union. As part of our ministry's cooperation with this Union, I believe that significant developments in the Frig Valley will take place in the coming years, for example there -- again -- from Mr. Kurt's questions (6/417) -- there is the Midas Memorial of Software. It was really bad when I first saw it a few years ago. There's been an emergency response project. Of course, it's a lot harder to intervene in these historical artifacts, a few thousand years old, a few thousand years old than a new structure. You're not supposed to disrupt its original structure, the material you're going to use is not supposed to do any damage to the original structure, and you're also required to protect its originality. It requires a very serious scientific consultation. When you apply for a scientific consultation, the time is progressing a little bit, but we are now interfering with the Midas Memorial, and by the end of this year, this intervention will be completed and the monument will be preserved. My dear friends, Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu, our deputy in Kahramanmarash, has questions about Kahramanmarash, 6/519 and 535. In 2012, we project the construction of the Kahramanmarash Museum security system and the establishment of the Germanian mosaics security system and transfer funds. We renewed the exhibition of the Heromarash Museum at 1.5 million prices, and a very modern and beautiful museum emerged. We're digging in the pole cave, in Kahramanmarash. We've sent nearly 300,000 grants to infrastructure applications in 2011. They have a very important mosaic presence in Kahramanmarash. Kahramanmarash, in this area called the Old Maraş, in this Germania region, there are beautiful mosaics that you can really compare to the Jaffa, the Gaziantep. You're traveling through a slum area, beneath structures, in basements, during any excavations, during any additions, you see incredible mosaics emerge. Of course, we have serious publicization issues. The Gaziantep Mosaic Museum has triggered the entire region, and has had a positive impact on it. Everyone has a demand to build a museum like this, but there's no way the public can find them all. For example, last year in Eskişehir -- there was a protocol during the Ministerial period before me, and then we developed it -- we built the Museum of Eti Archeology. Gaziantep isn't as big as Zeugma, but it's been a beautiful museum built using extremely modern technology. I expect this kind of sponsorship from Kahramanmarash, for example. If such an attempt occurs, we will try to do our best to present the exhibition of that museum. We don't have any scheduled work on thermal water supply in the Suleiman village, but if the local authorities there have a request from the city, we'll try to help with that, as the Ministry. My dear friends, our Adana MP, Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0093par0302	Mr. Secretary, Dedeoğlu has an additional request for an explanation.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0092par0303	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0093par0304	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0094par0305	Minister, thank you very much for your close attention. The mosaics... the first settlement of Kahramanmarash, as you just described, are called Karamarash. We haven't had a single dig in there yet. According to our archeologists' reports, it is known that we have very large mosaics from very old times, where there is a city. We ask for your help in this matter. These things need to come to light. I wish to share them with the countries of the world, and to open Kahramanmarash to tourism in this context. Thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0095par0308	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0096par0309	I agree with your wish. It's really impressive that the mosaic samples that we see there are now, which is a much larger area, and it's going to be very good examples -- and I'm going to look at what's out there right now -- and I'm going to look at what's out there. On my last trip to Kahramanmarash, I was promised sponsorship, a museum by a major hero-marash businessman, and I'm going to follow him. So at the same time, we've redid the existing museum -- and I've just told you -- with 1.5 million, we've renewed the presentation, but I think a new museum will do a lot more work there. Let's follow the subject together. There are some new mosaics that I'm very excited about in Kahramanmarash. My dear friends, the main question of Mr. Halaman (6/578): What are you doing to him? We completed construction of the Adana Ethnography Museum's relay, restoration, restoration, static, electricity and machine projects. We completed the restoration of Anavarza Victory Gate in 2011, with 200,000 grants. We've completed the Ataturk House security system. In the eighth month of 2010, we made the tender for repairs to the Adana Archeology Museum, exhibition, presentation and environmental arrangement. The museum building's renovations and exhibitions have been completed in part, but there are new studies in other parts, which will be done in the coming dates. In addition, we are trying to respond to demands under the Perimeter of the Perimeter. In Adana, we try to complete Ceyhan, Kozan, and Heartful cultural centers in 2012 and 2013. But the Floodbrain hasn't started yet, so I think he'll be a little late. My dear friends, unfortunately, in the past years, in Turkey, perhaps with good intentions, but with some political merits, culture centers have been designed to flow far beyond the goal. It's a huge project, and it's very difficult and unnecessary for the public to handle it. Recently, it started in the 90s, and in 2008, after 15 years, we ended up opening the Afyonkarahisar Cultural Center under the name of Hatt Ahmet Karahisari. I went away, I went away again last week. I mean, 30 rooms were put in, you don't know what it was, but it started, it was a done-up, major structure, we had to finish it, we had to finish it. But I'm still trying to figure out how to use some of your parts. There is a cultural centre in a region of Kırşehir Province. We're trying to put the city, the courthouse, all of it together, it's too much. But Akçakent is more than the population. These are the wrong projects. Now, we're trying to liquidate as much as possible, we're trying to finish, we're trying to make new projects available. We're trying to direct the public to the goal of whether it's a salon, an exhibition hall, a meeting hall, or whatever the real need is. There were also wrong projects in Adana, which unfortunately started. We're putting together as much as possible, and as I just said, we'll have finished Ceyhan, Kozan, and Hearts this year and mid-2013. We're helping with infrastructure applications. You know we have an ovarian tourism center. We have blackstone culture, tourism protection, development zones. Adana and Adana Çukurova were a bit of a place that turned its back on tourism, as far as I'm concerned. When it came to tourism in every region, Adana seemed to have gotten a little off the agenda. Last year in Adana, at the request of our Ministry, we held a Tourism Search Conference, and after that conference, a number of tourism, culturally, directly came into Adana's agenda in terms of mass tourism, and we are trying to answer the demands for infrastructure. We have a state theater in Adana, which opens the curtain every night at the Pawnist Cultural Center. The opera and ballet in Mersin are constantly bringing Adana (Adana and Mersin are working together) into cultural work. And I'd also like to ask all my friends, if you have the opportunity -- every year at World Theatre Week -- we open a Theatre Week in Adana with the Pawnist Foundation every year -- see opening night if you have the time. Because when I started, there was an opening in a living room. And then we talked to the managers of the Shabbat Foundation, and it's usually a good season for Adana at the end of March, why don't we do it outside, at the Taşköpru, and instead of watching a thousand people in the hall, why don't tens of thousands of people see these events without tickets, without money? And it's thought that on 2009, 2010 and 2011, on one side, there's this beautiful mosque across the river, and there's a fairy-tale opening, like a fairy-tale on the other side of the river. I've been trying to see that every chance I get for three years. I'm asking all my friends, that we can get away with some of Turkey's bad agenda that we're having this discussion with art, and the most beautiful of all, of course, thousands of people on both sides of the river watching all these events, with no extracurricular amount of money, and so we're taking art out of the halls to the masses to some extent, to the public. I, too, would like to thank the Foundation for our cooperation, and I would like to invite our friends to this event in Adana. We have 18 libraries...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0097par0320	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Halaman asked for an additional statement.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0096par0321	I didn't finish Adana, but here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0098par0322	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, thank you for your answer to these questions, and I think you've done some very nice things. Only we have Kozan district of Adana. There are huge sites in Kozan district of Adana. Of course, even though these sites are directly owned by the Ministry of Culture, sometimes municipalities intervene. I'm looking forward to your contribution as Minister of Culture at the point where these sites are improving. Thank you, I pay my respects, thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0099par0324	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0100par0326	Thank you very much, Mr. Halaman. Kozan's really interesting, and I've been up to the castle, and I've seen all kinds of structures around there. Now, of course, you're going to follow our Minister of Environment and Urbanism about the nature of these sites, but let's work more intensively in the part about cultural assets. In Adana, we have 18 public libraries and two children's libraries. And my dear friends, in recent years, we've been trying to make the libraries a little bit more of a theme. Back in the day, you know, it was the general information centers where any educational group could easily find books. Other names are used, such as the information centers, or the information temples. In recent years, we've been trying to develop a new concept called the literary museum library. The literature museum library covers a name, first contains all the literature about that name; second, it collects a region; it develops a theme library concept, a new perspective around local literature and that name. On 12 March 2011, we opened the first one as the Mehmet Akif Ersoy Literature Museum Library in Ankara. He built us an Ankara house in the province of Hamaönu in Altındağ, and we made it Mehmet Akif Ersoy Museum of Literature in honor of the memory of Mehmet Akif. Then, in Adana, we opened the Karacaoglun Library of Literature. Yasar Kemal came to mind, but I learned what I learned from Karacaoglan. He suggested it, so we made his name the Karacaoglan Library of Literature. I consider it an obligation to say so because Yasar Kemal did this beauty there. And now we're working on Emrah of Erzurum in Erzurum. We are trying to open a literary museum library in Kütahya. We built Ahmet Hamdi Tanpınar Museum of Literature in Istanbul. In Istanbul, a building called the Regimental Mansion was used as the Ministry's office, and I didn't use it as Minister, we built the Istanbul Ahmet Hamdi Tanpınar Library of Literature. We have such projects in Tripoli and İzmir. The first one was opened in Ankara, the second one in Adana, which I'm offering to your knowledge. Again, Mr. Ensar Öğeğeğeğeğin has a question about the need of books for schools in Ardahan (6/593). In the last year, we have sent 4,948, 5,000 books since 2010, and have subscribed to the libraries in Ardahan. He doesn't deliver books to villages and schools, but he's our Ministry, but if he makes a demand for a job, a school, we try to answer those demands in private. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0101par0339	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Öğün. There is an additional request for an explanation. Here you go, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0102par0341	Madam Secretary, thank you very much. I spoke with Ardahan Governor Mustafa Tekmen. They're doing the repairs of our convention building, but if Mr. Minister contributes to us, we'll be very grateful financially. They said, "Let me present him." The castle of the Battles in Posof, the castle of Kalecik, the castle of Satan in Madah, the castle of Karanav in Hanak, the ruins of Kars Ani, you know, a great treasure, the House of Katerina, which is also in Kars Sarıkamiş, and this is the repair of the tablets in Ardahan. Now, Dear Minister, our territory is very poor, very migratory. For some reason, the state, the government always helps the West, the developed provinces. Investment in unstructed cities can only attract tourism. Look, honestly, there are a lot of people coming from all over America, abroad. I beg you, if you repair the Ani ruins and the other castles and the plates I count there, at least if we repair our plates in the 1877-78 Ottoman-Russian War and open them to tourism, our region will rise very quickly. I'm asking you to put some weight on the investment there, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0103par0345	Thank you, Mr. Öpün.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0104par0346	Of course, if it's said that we don't show interest and support to the East, or to the Southeast, or to my area of duty, it's a lack of information...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0102par0347	Give me some more.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0104par0348	So we give as much as we can. Look, Ardahan Castle is very well-groomed right now. I told you we'd do whatever it takes to get to the Capitol. We're working on Sudden Ruins. In 2007, when I went away, there was no road to the Ani Ruins, which is now a very perfect way, and its surroundings were made with a protective band. There we work on various cultural assets, and work in Isaac Pasha, and in Ahmadi Hani. I'm talking about new spaces. Friends, three years ago -- at the fair in Izmir -- not just west of Turkey -- but south of Turkey -- but we decided that the public should lead it to the east -- we had decided to do it in Van for three years -- we had to do it in a row for two years -- and we'll do it again at the end of this year, if God wills it. This weekend I was at Van, and I spent the night and the day connecting Saturday to the market. We will again try to lift up our historical monuments in that region, take the whole area -- not just a province -- to make it a centre of Turkey's attention, perhaps to create a piece of advice from this plague, to do a good deed from an evil and to improve the infrastructure of the region. I went to Erciş, and went to Ahlat, this weekend. There are Chelebakuk graveyards in Erciş, the largest graveyards in the Turkish Islamic world, which have been neglected for years now, I think you'll see how those tombstones stand up when you leave in the spring, so we can't say we're indifferent to that region. What we do in the southeast is much more. We just need the world's public to relax that there is peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, quiet in eastern Turkey. When the world's public is in trouble anywhere in Turkey -- especially east, southeast -- it's all over the place, so let's get rid of it. I believe with all my heart that the East, the southeast, has a great potential for cultural tourism. Indeed, in terms of civil architecture, there is an incredible wealth in history, and in the years to come -- I mean, over 10 million this year alone, Turkey is going to see over 30 million tourists, east and southeast, hopefully over 10 million, but I think we need to be a little more patient, a little more peaceful, a little more patient, a little more patient. My dear friends, Mr Dedeoğlu has a question about Kahramanmarash, (6/602): What buildings are our rentals? My dear friends, our State Opera and Ballet General Directorate has only managed to get all the others into public buildings, which are pretty cramped, so we're trying to save them from rent. Mr. Zühal Topcu is asking about the hiring of disabled personnel. We're one of the ministries that mostly operates disabled personnel, the current 299, my numbers. We're short on 5 ministries, 2 State Theatres and 3 Opera Ballets, and we'll complete them as soon as possible. We'll certainly fulfill our social responsibility for the disability as soon as possible. Mr. Dedeoğlu has a question about the preparation of the projects of Hurman Castle in Kahramanmarash, the main number 6/660. We'll try to complete them in 2012. We also appointed the director of Gaziantep Revövere and Monuments to restore the mosaics under the Afşinbey School. Mr Dedeoğlu again says how many vehicles do you have in the Central Organization? We have 55 vehicles in total, my friends. Our 21 cars are rented. We don't pay for rentals, repairs, fuel, all over the firm. We paid $334,000 for our own vehicles last year and $116,000 for fuel. We paid the other vehicles, the rentals, any overtime, the driver, a lot of miles, no additional expenses, 811,000 in 2010. We have 51 residences. 24 of these are our bureaucrats and the rest of our employees. I mean, we're a pretty modest ministry with 50 numbers and 50 digits. I'd like to say a few words about Ankara, Mr. President, if I may.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0105par0359	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0104par0360	My dear friends, Ankara is the capital of the republic but also a city of Seljuklu, an Ottoman city and a city of Rome. That part of the job was a bit forgotten, neglected. In recent years, we have been eager to improve Ankara's historic city centre. There is the Mosque of Aladdin within Ankara Castle, there is the mosque of Musafirqih, there is the mosque of Ramadan Şemseddin, there is the mosque of Devduran, there is the mosque of Haji Arab, there is the mosque of Ahi Elvan and there is the mosque of Ahi Şarafettin. These are being restored by the General Directorate of the Foundations, many of which have been completed. I think only one Aslanhane Mosque is being repaired, and the rest have been made. We cooperate with local governments as much as we can with Ankara's cultural presence, which will cause pollution in the environment... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll be done in a few minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0106par0364	Go ahead, sir, I'll give you a minute or two.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0104par0365	My dear friends, as soon as I began my mission, many of my friends may have known, but -- right next to the Ministry, under the bridge, there was an incompatible market with the Ministry of Opera General Directorate across the street. So I don't want to use a bad term. There was an extremely neglected, curvature mall, and it was written in strange writings. We immediately started by removing that market, and right now there's a relay about Turkey's cultural wealth at the mall. There's been a breakout building behind the Ministry, so we've removed four times as much. As we went up to the castle on the 1st degree archaeological site -- unfortunately, in the past years, a Renaissance Directorate had been built, and we took it down with a dozer. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Ministry of Culture, built a relay building on the top of the first degree archaeological site, and we did a dodoer of it. There's a Roman theater there, and now we're working with the Metropolitan. Our Metropolitan Municipality around Haci Bayram is trying to develop a very good restoration project. The municipality of Altındağ is working on the 1st and 2nd stage around Hamaönu, and we're trying to uncover Ankara's forgotten cultural presence, historical identity. We have some planning work, and after they've completed their cost calculations, we'll all hope that we'll see a very big project to uncover the cultural fabric of Ulus-based Ankara, and that will be one of the very important centers of Anatolia, which is as historical as the capital of Ankara. I thank all my friends who ask questions and my friends who give me the opportunity to tell them. Mr. President, I salute you and your General Assembly with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0107par0369	Thank you, Mr. Günay. Mr. Çelebi, you're in the system, I'll give you a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0108par0372	Mr. President, thank you. You gave it to everyone, left me at the end. I'm especially here to...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0107par0374	I'd like to point out that what I'm saying here is that the MPs are asking questions. You didn't have any questions, so I'll give you an additional explanation. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0108par0376	Well, thank you. I'd like to answer a little bit of the congressman's questions about Ağrı. I'm here to thank the Minister very much. In particular, Mr. Minister Ağrı. We traveled together in the districts of EastBayazıt and Diyadin. There have been huge investments in cultural assets there during the period of the AK PARTY government. We've hosted our Minister there as 3 AK PARTI MPs. I want to thank them again for caring for so much culture and Pain. Especially in the EastBaydıt, both Ahmadi Hani and Ishaşa Palace, and in Patnos, they also gave good news of what we call the Kot Hill -- because our Minister is a soldier in Patnos, which is considered to be Urrtu's religious center, where we have a castle, and we thank them here in your presence.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0109par0381	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. Mr. Husband, come in.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0110par0383	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary for his statements. In particular in our Eskişehir, there have been master plans by our Ministry for the development of thermal tourism, the Union for the Protection and Development of the Cultural Heritage of Frigya. In this sense, especially the Eskişehir Redinler thermal tourism centre was adopted by our Council of Ministers in 2006. This area has been a site that has been seriously destroyed by treasure hunters until today. In addition to these studies, our city's private administration has now performed three drillings, significantly and in large amounts of water. Our Ministry again, 1/25. He has completed his master's plans, and agreed to them. Our lower municipalities are now 1/1 of that. A thousand and a half. They're making plans for a thousand. Again, photo contests with this area...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0111par0388	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0112par0390	Thank you. What I would like to ask the Minister is that we were able to acquire the treasures of Korah at the footman. I'm Dilek Yilmaz, the butler. The Karun treasures have been stolen and replaced, you know, investigations have been launched, there have been convictions, but is there any work done by your Ministry on the return of our work on this matter? Where are our artifacts? We want to get back to the originals of the Karun treasure. And what kind of work do you have on the Grand Canyons? The canyons are becoming very important to the servant, where we can be used as tourism. What kind of work do you have on the canyon? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0113par0394	Thank you. Finally, I promise Mr. Güler. But, members of the law, I'd like to remind you of something. This isn't the QA part, I just gave you a quick word because you're in the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0114par0399	Mr. President, thank you, sir. I wanted to make a statement today on behalf of Turkish Governments Day, sir. Today is the day of our executive executives, who have played an important role in the development of our country, which serves as the representative of state and government in the provinces and counties. I, the governor and the governor who worked so hard for the development of our country, and for the work they did for the Turkish rulers, I cherish those who have been brought to eternity, the martyrs, the health and peace to our separated rulers, and I also express our faith that these great efforts for the development of our country will always continue. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0115par0403	Thank you, Mr. Guler. Members of parliament, we now do not discuss other audit issues as required by the decision and move on to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. Among the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Kazakhstan, Professor Ahmet Yesevi, we will resume discussions between the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Historical Republic of Turkey on October 22, 2009 and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, where we are left to discuss the adoption of the Protocol on the implementation of the Turkish-Kazak University of Turkey. No commission. It's been postponed. We will now resume the negotiations of Ağrı MP Ekrem Çelebi and Bursa MP Hüseyin Şahin, who were in the 2nd place, as well as the Charter's Charter 375, and the Plan and Budget Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Since the second article in the framework has been changed in more than one article of the Security Service Flight and Diving Services Law, we will discuss each other's sides separately (b) and (c)bents together. Last time, the speech was completed on behalf of the National Movement Party Group (A) on the 2nd article (a) of the proposal. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, it now belongs to Aydın MP Bkent Tezcan. Here you go, Mr. Tezcan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0116par0422	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we are continuing our talks on Law Proposal 112. (x) 112 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 47th Union's Charter, dated 04/01/2012. Meanwhile, the agenda is changing rapidly in Turkey. It's Reporter's Day on January 10th. First of all, I congratulate all of our journalists who have worked hard to fulfill their duty as journalists in Turkey. On this occasion, in Turkey, I feel that Working Journalists' Day should actually be referred to as the day of journalists whose freedoms have been stolen. Dear friends, lately, pay attention to what we're going through. 97 of our journalists are imprisoned or convicted in prison. Because of their writings, because of their articles, we have a process where journalists are arrested for carrying out journalism activities, where newspapers are considered a terrorist tool, and in such a process, we celebrate the Day of Journalists. Dear friends, think of a country where the Home Secretary can say that there can be terror with painting, poetry, writing, writing, writing; imagine a country where the Home Secretary in charge of the security of that country can express the article as a terrorist tool, a terrorist weapon, and think of a country where you will celebrate the Day of Journalists working in that country under these conditions. This -- I repeat what I said in the beginning -- we may not have to celebrate the Day of Journalists working in Turkey today, but we may have to celebrate the day of journalists whose freedoms have been stolen. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, look, we're going to a very interesting point, about Mr Kemal Kilicdaroğlu of the Republican People's Party, where the Silivri Prosecutor's Office has held a statement. It's early 2012, when we said we were sailing towards that advanced democracy. The leader of the Main Opposition Party has been subjected to a trial for his politics, and has been held for trial. Crime: to influence a fair trial. Where did he say it? He sang in front of the Silivri concentration camp. What did he say? This is a Silivri concentration camp. I'm telling you, it's a Silivri concentration camp. Make a statement for me, too. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, what did he say, what did the President say? I repeat his words as my words, I do not transport them. Let it be contained as my words, and let the prosecutor in Silivri listen to my words, and I repeat the same words: Here is a theater where judges who are prejudicial, under political authority only play, for which they call it judgment, democracy. This is not a democracy, nor is it a distribution of justice. There's no escape for them. They can't escape, they love their country. Let us not be judged. They do not say, but are already judged. They want to do their duty in accordance with the 90th article of the Constitution and other provisions, by coming to Parliament and taking their vows, but unfortunately these duties are blocked by some judges. I cannot bear to call them judges, for the judge is the one who acts on his conscience; the judge is the one who knows the expectations and feelings of society and respects it. A conscience above all else. Could it be a judge who doesn't act on his conscience? There are international contracts signed by the Republic of Turkey. If you ignore them, I will read what I know, and what I know and what I say is true. If you set out with logic, you will not be able to distribute justice. Yes, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu said those words in front of the Silivri concentration camp in Silivri. Republican People's Party MP Bkent Tezcan speaks these words as his own words on the stand. Make a statement for me, too. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, Turkey is entering a difficult time of struggle in the coming period, the struggle for freedom and democracy. This struggle is a struggle to establish the country of freedom in Turkey, where the government does not give life to those who do not think as it does. This is Turkey's own struggle to wave the flag of freedom against those who set sail for a new civil dictatorship under the name of democracy in Turkey. We're fighting this fight, and if they're going to hold a statement against us in this fight, let's have them organize their pages and their arguments. We'll still sing the songs of freedom. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, under the circumstances, we are discussing the Law Proposal Number 112. We've said it many times before. You'll have to quickly correct the decrees in a rush of law enforcement. You'll have to break the will of the nation, smuggle it out of the House, and correct it in the House with the authority that you've passed on to the government. As soon as Act 666 is in effect, it comes to us to be changed over three months. Why? Because he was rushed out because it wasn't discussed here, because he was kidnapped from the nation's deputies. Now, look, there's something forgotten in this decree of law, something forgotten: pilot, frog man, flight crew. They forgot pilots, frogmen, flight crew working for the Police Department. There was no increase in their precedents while they were being increased. The change in this frame is positive in terms of resolving this deficiency. As a matter of fact, our friends at the Plan and Budget Commission have also expressed that they are positive, but, dear friends, this inequality is not only being resolved by this arrangement. Look, our friends there have made other proposals, and they said: "Ya, let's correct them in the Department of Police, but other than that, there are people who have been victims. For example, police officers, police lieutenants, all of these ranks, police officers, public officials who have a problem with retirement today. Dear friends, again, they are subject to a different practice than their predecessors. Today, university graduates, police, or police officers, or captains retire from 2,200 indicators while their precedent retires from 3,600 indicators. When the duty commissioner retires while working for 2.5 or 3 billion liras, he must receive half the salary if he gets a salary of $1 billion, a billion. Now, it's very interesting that we've made a motion in the Commission about this -- come on, other ministers may object -- but I understand that -- the Security General Directorate opposes the Home Secretary, who is directly committed to the truth, dear friends. When we say to his staff, his employees, his staff, let's settle this injustice. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is against it. Dear friends, here, look, everyone knows the conditions for the police, the police. They have such problems that a normal public servant works a hundred and sixty hours a month, while a police officer works two hundred and forty hours. We send them out at five o'clock in the morning -- except for additional services -- at 5:30 a.m. on the day of the match, at twelve o'clock in the morning, the next day at seven, eight o'clock in the morning, they're back on duty.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0117par0440	Please complete your statement.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0116par0441	So we said, "Let's get rid of the imbalances." And there was no work done on them. We said, "Let there be a commission for firefighters." We said, "There is no answer, there is no credit, and now we're just trying to fix this half-assed part of it." Finally, my dear friends, you are forced to re-enact and correct any work done in a hurry by violating the will of the House. At least let this be a lesson to us, at least let this be a lesson to you, in order to satisfy the inequality of all civil servants and to provide equal pay for the equal work, I say we all make a collective arrangement with the will of the House. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0118par0446	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0119par0449	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. There's been an incident that requires us to sit down and think about it as a whole country. 35 of our citizens were killed in the massacre in Uludere district of Şırnak province on December 28th. Hours later, this incident, which the media deigned to report, was buried in our memory as a historic tragedy. Civilians who have no crime, no sin, who trade borders to make a living, died from the bombs of fighter planes that left Diyarbakır. I wish God's mercy to the people who lost their lives, and my condolences to their relatives. I'm sorry for the loss of all our people. The tragedy has come to the impression that it's not a simple intelligence error, it's a planned, programmed operation. Roboski villagers who crossed the Iraqi border in front of the local police station in the area during the day didn't know they were going to lose their nightlife. According to witnesses and survivors of the incident, the villagers were led another way by the same police station after arriving at the Turkish border at night, calling their families on the phone. Although families have informed authorities that their children are staying on the mountain, police officials have said they are not related to us, call Diyarbakir. All accounts clearly show that the group is not a PKK group, but that the police station knows. Three hours in the mountains, the villagers are killed by F-16ESTs leaving Diyarbakır, just a few miles from their own village. Some of the 35 souls, including 19 children, die instantly, while others are trapped under the rocks, while others are injured in the cold. Mr. President, we have once again seen that we cannot solve our problems with safety concepts, especially the Kurdish issue, with violent policies, but with democratisation, in light of basic rights and freedoms, we must resolve them together. Once again, we have experienced the insecurities of security politics. The media's approach to this event, its silence, its unacceptable attitude toward people who died, and after the incident, the celebration of New Year's celebrations in the west of Turkey as if nothing had happened reminded them of the 1990s. Since 2009, security policies, which have increased their violence with unjust detention and arrests, have reached the point of taking away people's rights to live. So, what do these people want? Why don't we ask ourselves? These people want freedom, they want education in the native language. These people want to live an equal and honorable life. The government has discredited the people there by watching this massacre, by keeping silent for hours, and most importantly, by describing it as a simple operation accident. Yeah, there's been an accident, a mistake. This mistake is the policy of years of rejection, denial and assimilation. This mistake is a number of security policies that have been going on for years and where it's going to end up. This mistake is the mindset that does not respond to education in the main language, which is human rights. We thought he was a member of the PKK. A reason such as this shows that the state is acting on a whole concept of war. The warning is to fire, to bomb without calling for surrender, but to fight and to fight groups is legitimate. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are the biggest consequence of violent security concepts that make it difficult to live together. Such policies produce results in strengthening Kurdish-Turkish separation, aimed at separating the people we want to live as brothers in Turkey. This type of violence has occurred before, due to years of violence in the country. At this rate, it will continue to happen. As long as the Kurdish problem remains unresolved, as long as the conditions of conflict continue, the repeat of similar events in different ways is always possible. Let us not forget that the people of Turkey have no enmity with one another. In our opinion, all peoples are brothers, but such disasters hurt their sense of brotherhood. We're dealing with a divided country in the world of emotions. How would we react if this had happened in Istanbul, in İzmir? Everyone needs to think seriously, see what this concept of war can cost. We wish that such a painful event would lead to the transition of peace-based concepts. You need to be careful about this painful incident that endangers social peace and undermines the brotherhood. The entire Parliament, especially the government, is tasked with the fundamental solution to the problem. What are we waiting for now? What is the mission of the House? Isn't this Parliament the solution to all problems in Turkey? When it comes to it, let's discuss whatever problems there are in the House, and we know that Parliament is the solution. But it seems that it doesn't fulfill its function. This tragedy reminds the House of its duty. The way to establish social peace is for parliament to carry out the duties and responsibilities of all parties, particularly the government party. It's our call to the House, let's settle this peacefully. Now let's solve a problem that has become gangrene, historical, political and cultural dimensions, based on dialogue, with democratic concepts. Let's not divide the country with our own hands anymore. No matter where we stand, as Mr. Tarhan Erdem put it in last week's article, we can no longer establish a realistic and accurate view of the Kurdish issue without accurate assessment of the Uludere incident. If we do not want the Kurdish issue affecting all sides of our lives to remain unresolved and unresolved, we must answer the questions without any unknown parties. After the commissions assigned to clarify the case, the result must be shared with the public and everyone responsible must be judged immediately. Accepting the mistake and apologizing must be a virtue that suits governments who value human life. If you act rationally, you can't relieve people's pain. History also notes what is not done as well as what is done. We don't understand that the government's party, which won the public's great favor by voting, should have taken steps to resolve the solution, but insist on security politics that doesn't involve dialogue. We believe that the solution to the Kurdish problem should be sought not in security politics, but in human-oriented democratic solutions. The vast majority of these people voted for you to solve problems, to live as a human being, not to die in the mountains in the middle of the night with fighter planes. Despite their unspeakable suffering after the incident, there was one thing the villagers wanted, though: to stop the flowing blood and to bring peace. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, if the political party heads had gathered and spoken on the day of this terrible incident in Uludere, there would have been no hard arguments, no accusations, at the group meetings and at the Assembly General Assembly. Unfortunately, this toughness in politics is making even more tension than the Uludere massacre. It's obvious that tension doesn't do anyone any good. The day is low blood pressure day and dialogue day. For dialogue, the Prime Minister must lead the country into another atmosphere. We find the tension of the country today very heavy and chaotic, and we need to see it now. I'm calling from here to the Prime Minister. He must invite all party leaders to be seriously evaluated and lead the country out of its tense atmosphere. We're talking about the new constitution, it's a process. You can't convince people if you're talking about building a democratic constitution while conflict continues. Two weeks ago, Deputy Prime Minister Brent Arinc said that whatever comes into your mind with his Kurdish identity, his Arab identity, his Bosnian identity, all of whom, whatever there is, will speak freely of his identity on this land, we respect that identity, we will give all of his cultural rights, his constitutional rights, and we will recognise him. We value these words and hope, and after these promising words, we are very sorry to see the country enter such a tense process again. As I end my speech, in this land as ancient as human history, I now wish for the beginning of the process of dialogue and peace, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0120par0469	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of Eskişehir MP Salih Husband. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Husband.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0121par0473	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to start by celebrating the Day of Journalists working on January 10th. I also offer God's mercy to all my brothers who died in the event of my hand in Uludere, and my condolences to their families and loved ones. Our government's work on the solution to problems that have become gangrene in our country is also appreciated by our people. Equal wage work is important in this area, and the principle of equality aims to protect the rights of our officers, who do the same work in similar institutions, but are also victims of different wages. Since 2000, 41 per cent of current pilots have left the Security General Directorate to work in the private sector due to lack of autonomy rights. The 2nd Article (a) which I have promised will prevent the loss of trained personnel by improving the rights of the staff through the necessary arrangement for the financial rights of flight and diving services that are working at the Police Department. Thus, a victim of rights will be eliminated and faces will be laughed at. The AK PARTY government has targeted the quality of life in every area by minimising the loss of our citizens' rights so far, with policies it has implemented. The government is now at peace with its people. The expression "AK PARTY" is insufficient for the government because the AK PARTY has become inseparable, as if by flesh and nails. The policies developed by the AK PARTI for 74 million in undiscriminately made the faces of our people smile at each and every one of them. As a result of our work, we have also made Turkey the lowest country in Europe, making it the country of crime, and making it a laughing stock for our people, who are involved in the process of controlling the state by implementing the right to gain knowledge through our decisive fight against the gangs that oppressed our citizens. In Europe, public employees' salaries have been frozen or lowered, and we have made our workers, workers, pensioners, widows, and orphans laugh without being crushed by inflation. Turkey, thanks to the conscious policies and fiscal discipline of our government in the economy, has been the second fastest growing country since China, despite the largest global scale crisis in 60 years. That's how we made our people smile again with unemployment numbers down to 8.8%. Friendships with many countries, with respect to the international arena, have also made our exporter smile with $135 billion in export figures. By providing our people with treatment from the institution all of our people wanted, we also made our people laugh at our people by providing home health care, guesthouse practices, and a public understanding of our people's servants, by ending examinations in hospitals, pharmaceutical lines in pharmacies. In the same way, we have made our students, our parents, and our students, laugh at their scholarships and loans increased in serious proportions since 2002. We also gave them four people -- credi dorms and luxury dorms, classrooms, gyms, and free textbooks, and the FATH Project -- and we made the faces of our young, our students and our parents. We also made our farmer smile with support from the field and the product. In short, on the way out, we made a man live so that the state could live by the motto, we got prayers, we got development, we got justice, we made Turkey smile. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0122par0488	Thank you, Mr. Husband. Gaziantep MP Abdullah Nejat Koçer. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Coacher.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0123par0492	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on Article 2 of the Law Proposal for Amendments in some Laws. I salute your high council. At the beginning of my speech, I too celebrate Working Journalists Day and wish them ease and success in their work. I pray for God's mercy to the people who lost their lives in Uludere. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has a coastline over 8,000km, and it has internal waters close to its size. There's been a lot of criminal incidents involving the police, our police, almost every day in such a large area. In these cases, underwater teams are needed to develop and specialize in various issues, particularly search and rescue. The need had long been met by amateur civilian fishmen, but the fact that they were amateurs and civilians at the same time had led to a number of different problems, such as the fact that they were not soon reached the conclusion, that events were not successfully illuminated. So over time, underwater teams were formed within the police force, using developed country samples. These problems were handled professionally by frogmen who were certified by the Police Department of Police, who successfully completed their frogmen courses. On Article 2 of this law proposal, the strategic importance of staff in our country for providing both police and justice is that of pilots and flight crew members in the Security General Directorate and frogmen, with a total of 46 pilots, 65 flight crews and 220 frogmen. These personnel have been successful in carrying out their responsibilities in the high risk group, which is that they have been in great danger for years. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are also being passed through committee reports of staff underwater medicine, especially for various physical tests, including the pressure chamber, through auditions made by people who are considered to be able to swim and dive. They are subject to extremely serious training. These tasks are extremely difficult and risky, for reasons such as water pressure, water pollution, water coolness, blurs, and the gathering of evidence necessary for the examination and enlightenment of forensic events, if any, to access the bodies at the scene of the crime. We also have law enforcement officers who lost their lives during these difficult missions in various cases. In the same way, the challenges of the working conditions of our police force's flight personnel are irrefutable, of course, the risks of the aviation profession. Dear lawmakers, the pilot and the pilot and the pilot who served in the Security Directorate under Article 4/4 of the Law Act 375 and the frogmen are being paid and dive compensations paid to the frog men and the pilot in Article 3160 with Article 2 of the Law Proposal for Change in Some Laws. The frogmen who carried out such difficult tasks were also motivated by the understanding of social state and social justice of the Constitution and were also subject to the principle of justice of the flying staff in the Security Directorate. The law wishes that your offer be good, and with this feeling and thought, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0124par0499	Thank you, Mr. Coacher. Now, let's move on to the QA section. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0125par0502	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, as you know, the fact that the developments in Syria are negative and that in our relations with Syria, unfortunately, a proper method is not being used is troubling Turkish companies. How many vehicles are currently held in Syria? How difficult is it for the contractors who do business? What are the risks? Do we know anything about any of this? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0126par0506	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0127par0508	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Minister of Environment Bayraktar, we're doing fine-tuned work to bring the cup to Trabzon. I wonder if this explanation of Mr. Bayraktar is fixed. The Ministry of Interior's duty is to maintain peace and happiness in the country, to fight crime and crime. How will the Minister of Interior develop a fight against Bayraktar? That's one. Question number two: The head of the Human Rights Commission, İlker Basbug, says: "Let the special authority judge or judge the Supreme Court as the Supreme Court, the situation will not change for us." What's the minister's explanation for this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0128par0512	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0129par0514	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, given the answer you gave on a question last week, many of our citizens are curiously awaiting your answer this week. As it is known, last week, you told a second member of the family of martyrs and veterans that the work is being carried out in public. Now, when is the time for this study to be possible? Is this work expected to be brought to the General Assembly of the High Assembly in the near future? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0130par0517	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0131par0519	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: The proposal we're negotiating is a proposal that we're renegotiated due to the shortcomings and irregularities of the Law Code 666. In accordance with Article 91 of the Constitution, the provisions must be brought to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which must be discussed in commissions and the General Assembly. Despite this clear decree of the Constitution, why are the laws of the law not brought to the Parliament to be discussed? I'd like to know how you respond to that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0132par0524	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0133par0526	Mr. President, I'm going to start by thanking our valued deputies for asking questions. Mr. Kusoglu asked about the victims in that country and the vehicles held there based on developments in Syria. This is a subject that has been monitored daily by our State Department and our Interior Ministry, Customs and Trade Ministry, in parallel with it. As of now, I can't express the number of people and vehicles, but a problem and information received are being monitored without being ignored. There is no major problem at this time. The question of Mr. Tanal is a question based on or based on the statement of our Minister. They know exactly what our Minister is saying. I can't read his intentions or ours, but I understand...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0134par0531	It is the Home Secretary's duty to fight crime and crime.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0133par0532	...Mr. Secretary, at the same time, he wanted to express his genuine interest in Tripoli, about this country, about its interests, about all its interests, about Tripolispor, in the context of testimony. And that's something that everyone can express, something that they can do. As Minister, it's not about the Ministry. He expressed his feelings as an MP from Tripoli and Tripoli. We don't mind. As for the private court or the other court, Mr. Tanal, our friend who has expressed it cannot make any further statements in terms of judicial independence. The court's appointment is not under the authority of any commissioner, nor is it under the authority of our MP, nor of our politicians, nor of yours, nor of anyone's. Each court shall appoint its own authority according to the law of procedure, according to the law that it has taken its power, its authority. That's what our friend, our Commissioner, wants to express. Mr. Light, you have repeated your question about the family of martyrs. I gave you the answer last week, so I'll give it to you again. If we increase this speed, if we can drop the five-point law in ten days and make a little quick legalization, our bill on this issue will soon be on the agenda of our Parliament. Mr. Yilmaz's question...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0135par0536	We'll give him priority, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0136par0537	Bring it now. Bring it with a motion. Let's face it, Mr. Secretary. There's no need for all that. Bring it now, and we'll accept the motion.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0133par0538	Mr. Yilmaz's question...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0136par0539	I mean, why don't you bring it? Mr. Secretary, I'll...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0133par0540	Mr. Chairman of the Group, you don't have to get excited.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0136par0541	Sir, it'll be quicker if you're a little hard-working.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0133par0542	Actually, I don't mind, but don't get excited. We're just as eager and excited about it as you are, so no one has to worry about it.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0136par0543	Don't blame the House, take care of yourself.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0137par0544	Mr. Secretary, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0133par0545	We thought of it before you spoke or before you asked us to, as a government, as a party, and law enforcement has taken its final form.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0136par0546	Why don't you bring him in first, and then ask him? Bring it in, we're waiting.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0133par0547	The question of Mr. Yilmaz is: They have stated that there are flaws in the Charter of Law No. 666. Thank you. Lack can be by anyone; it is the duty of all those who lack, and those who have to contribute to them. However, it is not possible to accept this assessment, stating that there are irregularities. The claim of irregularity in the establishment of a law or law is probably an overstated claim. I'd like to think that Mr. Yilmaz is using it as a rhyming word, as well as the lack of it, and it is true that the provisions of the legislature of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should come, the Constitution shall be judged, and it shall be carried out.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0138par0548	When, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0133par0549	In accordance with the Constitution, the government shall carry out its work according to the mandate of the Constitution, informing the Grand Assembly of its work from there, and making the request of the Supreme Assembly to enforce the law. I thank you all very, very much, very much.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0139par0551	We've got some time. Mr. Horseman, come in.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0140par0553	Thank you, Mr. President. You said equal wages for equal employment, Mr. Secretary, and you issued a decree on a law order in a hurry. And then there were dozens of problems, and now you're asking for a suggestion -- here's a suggestion: the head of the university's office, the assistant general secretary, the minister of law, who has the same title, who has the same job, is paid exactly $1.579 less than someone who does it. Is that what you call equal pay for equal work?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0139par0555	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0141par0557	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking very briefly. Mr. Secretary, 229 thousand police officers can't take advantage of equal pay for equal work in different titles. Do you think there's an arrangement? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0142par0560	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. I'll give you a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0143par0564	Thank you, Mr. President. It's Mr. Pitcher's question. A decree in the law is a legal text designed with the courage to solve a problem in Turkey, which is the savings of years. She may have given birth to the unsatisfactory parts or the unsatisfactory parts, but as we're doing now, we have to do better together by making certain arrangements on this matter. The understanding of equal wages for equal work is an understanding that we always put ahead of us, and that is the understanding of our work, our legal regulations, our other secondary regulations. I'm not personally sure how much the numbers reflect the truth. We'll do our work on the documents. Any further response, we'll present it to them. Mr. Günal is asking 229 thousand of our officers, our police officer. Our police officers are not facing any inequality within themselves. If there was an inequality due to the charge on other public officials that were meant to be paid, corrections have been made over time to repair it as well. But police officers are like themselves first, and their jobs are similar to their own. So what the police are doing is, at the very least, the work that the armed forces are doing...
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0144par0570	Our extra time is over, Mr. Secretary, thank you. Now, there's a motion on the 2nd article (a) me, and I'm going to read it: The draft of the 112 Term Numbered Bill, which is currently in session, is 2. We would like to add the following expression to the end of the clause (a). With all due respect. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Çam Süleyman Çelebi Bornt Kuşoğlu Erdal Aksunger Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Police officers or police officers who ride motorcycles are also paid the same amount of compensation. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0145par0581	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0144par0582	Government?
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0146par0583	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0144par0584	Here you go, Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0147par0586	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, today is Working Journalists' Day. We celebrate all the time. I don't want to celebrate inside. Celebrate what? Let's do something, celebrate something. Let's find a solution to the problems of those friends and find a solution to the problems of those friends. We're just coming here, celebrating dry. No. Celebrating is about finding solutions to those people's problems, their problems. If we, this Parliament, what are the problems of the working journalists, what are their problems, if he can figure out a solution to them, if he can find one, let's all celebrate today. Or else we'll come, and we'll say, "Good luck to all of you, Working Journalists' Day." In my opinion, celebrating a day is about finding a solution to their problems, to their problems. Let me just say this once. Mr. Secretary, we've asked that a loss of rights be avoided here. So our friends, who we call Yunus, are very open to the risk of life of our police friends, who are constantly facing major accidents in reaching the scene of the crime very quickly, at least as much as one pilot does. That's what we've asked our friends to do. We didn't ask for anything. We just wanted our friends, who are called Yunus, who ride motorcycles very fast, to be kept within the same scope. So that was the motion. Mr. Secretary, I'm telling you a story that happened. A brother of Jonah is in a major accident and he is dying on İstanbul Ataköy Beach Road. The police department and property management in Copperköy -- a beloved brother -- wants his name to be kept alive in Bakırköy. The City of Copperville is building a park at the time, and I would be happy to name it Mr. Mustafa Yurer. It's being given. I even went to his opening. Our entire police department, the whole family, they all cried, made us all cry. We thanked the Mayor of Copperville when he returned. I believe there was Mr. Chelebi. And you know what happened, Mr. Secretary? A letter of notice is sent to the post from Giresun, anonymous and unsigned. He says: "This way the mayor was not very interested, so there was an accident, and this man died, and somehow he parked for him to ease his conscience. Once the highway, the coast road, belongs to the city. There's no mistake on the road, but there's a board called the Ethics Council -- no name, no name, fake letter -- getting the letter, going to the Mayor of Bakırköy saying, "Did you do something like this?" He says, "Did you cause the accident?" He goes to the police authorities, and he says, "Is this the accident?" He says, and the people of Bakırköy are very upset because of the state's conduct in such a way. One, Minister, does the Ethics Board have that authority? I know that an unsigned council called the Ethics Council... is once tore up anonymous and false letters in the state. That's what we know. Does the Ethics Committee have a mission like this, a mission to go in and interrogate them? So, Mr. Secretary, if you learn the truth from the Copperville Police, which ethical committee, why it did this, I'd like to thank you very much if you could give us some information. But we all have to give our motorcycle friends the benefit of the doubt. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-10sit02spe0148par0594	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, negotiations on the 2nd article (a) of the framework have been completed, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, since we have reached the end of our working period, it is 13 o'clock on Wednesday (January 11th 2012) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
