tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 39th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2013 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2011 Central Management Computation Bill. Under the schedule, we'll have two rounds of interviews today. The fifth round includes the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Agriculture, the Ministry of Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the General Directorate of State Opera and Ballet, the General Directorate of State Theatres, the Head of Turkey's Writing Works, the Ministry of Customs and Trade, the Ministry of Agriculture and Villages, the General Directorate of Agriculture Reform, Customs and Customs. 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2013 Central Management Budget 2) Food, Agriculture and Animal Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The Ministry of Agriculture and Village Affairs Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Agricultural Reform General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account T) TOTINA AND ALCOLPIA PRODUCTION 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2013 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2013 Central Management Budget 2) Culture and Tourism Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 (x) 361 and 362 S. The Numbered Basmazes and Funding Citvets are added to the 36th Union Charter, dated 10/12/2012/2012. 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2013 2) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Turkey's Writing Arts Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 1) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Customs Undersecretary, Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Competitive Association's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 The commission and the government are in place. Lawmakers who want to ask about budgets involved in this tour can enter the system. In the fifth round, I read the names of the members of the group and its individuals: On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Adıyaman MP Mehmet Erdogan, Bayburt MP Bünyamin Özbek, Gaziantep MP Derya Bakbak, Şanlıurfa MP Zeynep Karahan Beşı, Sabzon MP Sapim Seymenoğlu, İstanbul MP İsmet Ulma, Samsun MP Cemal Yılmaz Demir, Tekirdağ MP Özlem Yemişçi; Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy, İstanbul MP Sıyya Önder, Hakari MP Esad Canan, Mardin MP Erol Dora; Milliyet Movement Party on behalf of Democratic Party Party Party of Peace and Democracy Party members, Ağrılım Çağirçı, İstanbul MP Çağım Çağan MP İğrım Çağan, İstanbul MP İğrıpın, İstanbul MP İçım Çağar, İstanbul MP Çağıpın MP İğıpın, İstanbul MP İğurcı, İstanbul MP İğurcı, İstanbul MP İğurdar, İstanbul MP İğımazımımın MP İğı MP İğımın, İstanbul MP İğımın MP İğımın, İstanbul MP İğımımımımın, İstanbul MP İğurcı, İstanbul MP İğımımımın MP İğurcı, İstanbul MP MP. On behalf of his people, Istanbul MP Mihrimah Belma Kart; on behalf of Adana MP Muharrem Varlı. Now, first on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Adıyaman MP Mehmet Erdogan. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0002par0050	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism in 2013. I salute you. Yesterday, there was a Turkey that couldn't lead to the villages of Ankara, and today, there is a Turkey that has traveled to the villages of Ankara, as well as Hakkari, as well as Edirne. Yesterday, there was a Turkey waiting at the IMF gates, receiving help; today there is a Turkey that extends its hand of mercy all over the world, covering the wounds. Yesterday, they did populism by calling it an election economy, squandered the resources of the nation, wronged the trust of the nation. The Central Bank has been instructed, and the money has been printed for free. The cost, the consequences, the bill, was distributed from the pouch without any account. Promises flew. Inflation has risen to three figures in this country. Records broke in the budget deficit.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0003par0052	Poetry or poetry?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0002par0053	The interest has risen to astronomical levels. The raises came back one after the other, with a spoon ladle. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Holy Lord, say, "What seed was thrown into the ground and the land refused to accept it?" Since 2002, we have now transferred the wealth of the heart of the AK PARTI and of the Holy One, and the tolerance of Yunus (Jonah), and speak in the language of Hadji Bekktashi Veli. We're building the generation of Asım, which will exist with the wisdom of the Aqif. As we sow the seeds of peace and brotherhood, the opposition continues to sow the wind, but they must know that what sows the wind reaps the storm. For those who did wrong, for hundreds of billions of dollars, for those who turned a blind eye to the banks that were sunk, for those who didn't make a sound, for those who applauded the guardian system despite the nation, the nation gave the best answer. Yes, you planted the wind, you were going to reap the storm. In the elections, in the polls, the storm continues to mow you down. Either you'll change yourself or you'll be condemned to nothing.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0004par0056	Come to agriculture, to agriculture!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0005par0057	Eight thousand lira cows sold for two thousand liras, Mr. Erdogan!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0002par0058	Dear friends, agriculture is an important sector in our country's economy and social structure.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0005par0059	Can you look at the farmer in Besni?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0002par0060	Agriculture, with the firm policies and support of our government and ministry, has contributed substantially to the economy over the past decade.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0005par0061	You go to Besni, talk to the farmers. The farmer in Besni is dying of pain! You don't know!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0006par0062	Come to the Anguss, to the assholes!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0002par0063	With support, the growing agricultural sector's contribution to national income increased by more than three stories, reaching 103.6 billion TL in 2011 from 36 billion euros in 2002. We are a country exporting 1.586 agricultural products to 186 countries. As of agricultural production value, we are the 7th in the world, the 1st in the European Union. A total of $50.7 billion in agricultural support has been given in our ten-year rule. You'd have to ask the people who've stalled us for years because we've been a country of agriculture. Where was the Republic's Agricultural Law, Seed Law, agricultural products insurance? Here are 14 fundamental laws, including the AK PARTY, which have been expected for eighty-three years. Agricultural basins, rural development moves, grants to irrigation investments, land collections, bait plants, seeding supports. You realize how important it is these last days, dear friends, how delicate and careful it is at the point where the food from the field to the table, from the farm to the fork is being shipped to our people. These are the support and the work that I can only say part of. So, although there's been a significant increase in plant and animal production, there's still some distance to go. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in 2002 total grain production increased from 30,800,000 tonnes to 33,400,000 tons. Our total production of fruits and vegetables has increased from 39 million tons to 46 million tons. So as we move towards 2023, our goal is a Turkey, which has reached 150 billion dollars in agricultural value among the top five countries of the world's agricultural economic size, exports over $40 billion, has spoken in the world and in the region, has completed the agricultural collection, has opened up all of its waterable areas. Dear President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to thank our minister, Mehdi Eker, and the bureaucrats of the ministry, who have been working on the budget, and ask that the budget be a blessing, and I salute you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0007par0071	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Bayburt MP Bünyamin Uzbek. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Here you go, Mr. Uzbek.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0008par0075	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency in 2013. On this occasion, I salute you. I'd like to start by reminding you that tobacco products are particularly harmful to human and public health. During our administration, many measures have been taken to protect against the harm of smoking. In 2008, there was a change in Law 4207...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0009par0078	Bünyamin, leave this, and speak of Kop, and speak of Kop, and of Kop, and of the Tunnel.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0008par0079	...the Law on the Amendment to the Obstruction of Tobacco Foods 5727 has been passed by your votes and has been enforced. In order to create a smokeless Turkey to protect passive smokers, on 19 July 2009 all closed spaces in Turkey were created without smoke. As a result, the population over the age of 15 had a 33.4% smoking rate in 2006...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0009par0080	The Bayburts want Kop. Bünyamin, let him speak of Kop. IN 2012, this rate was reduced to 27.1 per cent. According to 2008, about 2,200,000 people quit smoking, passive exposure to cigarette smoke in closed spaces is 60 per cent, and although it is not forbidden, the percentage of smokers in houses has decreased by 35 per cent. In the fight against tobacco, our country is among the top four successful countries in the world. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, on the other hand, with the understanding that the country's development will not be possible without improving agriculture, I'd like to stress here that in terms of the agricultural development move, the amount of agricultural support distributed from the budget to our farmers in 2002 was $1.9 billion in 2012, but in 2012, it was $6.5 billion. This development move in agriculture has been much more clearly reflected in our province, and over the past decade, Bayburt farmers have been paid a total of 73,200,000 Turkish lira production support. On the other hand, there will be approximately 1,260 hectares of agricultural land that were opened yesterday by our Prime Minister. Again, a collection of nearly 20,000 hectares of the 16 villages, including the ironsus dam, has been launched to include the watering site. Our farmers have been freed from the burden of interest, and through the Agriculture Bank and agricultural loan co-opters, our farmers are given loans for up to seven years, with zero interest, to invest in livestock and irrigation. In the past decade, the amount of business and investment loans used for agricultural co-ops in our province has exceeded $10m. Now, Mr. Haydar is talking about the Kop Tunnel. Guys, we really had a dream. There was a serious mountain between Erzurum and Bayburt. Here, especially in the winters, the journeys were very difficult. We were dreaming, we couldn't even dream, but today came true.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0010par0086	Happy dreams!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0011par0087	I'd like to thank our Prime Minister and the Minister of Transport and the Highway bureaucrats.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0010par0089	Don't wake up from the dream, keep dreaming!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0012par0090	Well done, you've done well!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0011par0091	The tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency was established in 2002 to organise and supervise tobacco and alcohol markets with Law 4733. Our production of tobacco in the world market share is important. It is this: We are ranked first in the world's production of song-type tobacco with a market share of 28 per cent. An important export product for our country, the song-type tobacco grew 15 per cent in January 2012 and reached $378m from the same period in 2011. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are a total of 9,500,000 Turkish liras for the company's 2013 budget's tobacco products market, and a permit for alcoholic beverages is 9 million Turkish liras. It is estimated that 38 million Turkish liras will be collected for use or permitting goods to operate. In the 2013 fiscal year, the institution's budget was estimated to have a total of 64,620,000 Turkish liras. On this occasion, I salute you again.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0013par0097	Thank you, Mr. Uzbek. Gaziantep MP Derya Bakbak. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Bak Bakak.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0014par0101	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in 2013. I salute you all. Our country carries the rich legacy of thousands of years of history on its land. At the same time, its special position, its natural beauty, its hosting civilizations are among the cultural treasures of culture and the wealth of tourism in the world. With that consciousness in our ten years of power, we have made important cultural and tourism moves. It's in the square, numbers, numbers. Our country, with 13.2 million people in 2002, ranked 17th in the world, ranked sixth in 2011 in terms of the number of tourists with 31.5 million people. In terms of tourism revenues, with $23 billion, we have risen to the ninth place in the world. Our country has never come this far in culture and tourism until recently. For the first time today, a national culture and tourism policy integrated at macro level, long and medium-term goals has reached our power in time. With the work of our ministry, our perceptions of tourism have emerged from the sea-south-sun-spot triangle over the past ten years, as well as a comprehensive tourism policy with the best use of our country's wealth and diversity in many areas from culture to health, gastronomy to congressional tourism. Congressmans, with the work we've done, we're bringing new concepts such as our library to tourism, focusing on modern, innovative activities. In tourism, we concentrate on our work for the disabled, we increase it. We're working on making museums more interesting for the kids. We prioritize the training of technical personnel needed to protect our cultural heritage. We're building national museum complexes to help display our remains in storage. We can open more sectoral tourist stores, reach larger masses, increase our profitability. On the other hand, we are restoring various treasures from Turkey that have been illegally removed from it. In the film industry, we also started to talk about our country's name in international arenas -- theatre, opera, ballet, concerts and recitals -- and we started to increase our number of performances and activities every day. Dear lawmakers, we have developed the cultural identities of our cities into tourism. Here, the best example of this is Gaziantep. Not just Gaziantep, but many of our country's cities today are rapidly developing in tourism. Our previously trashed, spilled, destroyed artifacts are being brought to tourism. With these new faces, our cities become habitable brand cities. I would like to share this information with you in particular and with pride: Our Ministry of Culture and Tourism at World Travel Awards, considered important by the international tourism industry, has been awarded the award of the best tourist company in Europe. In addition, Zeugma, who entered UNESCO's 2012 World Heritage Candidate List of Cultures, was awarded the 2012 Presidential Cultural and Art Grand Prize. Dear lawmakers, superior performances come out of a team game aimed at the same goal. We've moved our country to a great place in ten years, moving together with common sense, with a united heart. Our country has become a model for our neighbouring countries at the level of development and modernisation, with its strong stance, with its policies, with its reforms, democratically, politically, in terms of its reforms. He believes that we will take this success far further, that we will give thanks to all the states and politicians who have served this great nation on the road to troubled civilization, who have left art, who have laid stone upon stone, and to our beloved nation, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0015par0109	Thank you, Mr Bak Bakk. Şanlıurfa MP Zeynep Karahan Nice. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Nice Guy.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0016par0113	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have received a pledge from the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate on the financial budget of 2013, and I salute the Grand Assembly. For sixty-three years, Turkey has been moving world savings and exporting our savings to the world through this long-standing institution of opera and ballet to humanity on the widest scale. In this framework, the opera and ballet arts, which have a unique place among the unifying cultural grounds produced by art and culture, should also be noted as the AK PARTI power, which is the most owned throughout the history of the republic, unlike many non-consistent prejudices. If we give only a few examples of this ownership: although the Council of Ministers decision was made in 1993, however, the Samsun State Opera and Ballet, which was held in 2008; again, the Izmir Young Solists Contest since 2007; the International Istanbul Ballet Contest since 2008; and since 2010, the International Istanbul Opera Festival is being organised by our institution; and since 2008, the Science Dance Society has been established by the Istanbul Modern Dance Society since 2011. Since 2002, the institution has increased the power and dynamics of the institution by hiring 606 new staff artists. On the other hand, the establishment of Eskişehir National Opera and Ballet Days, where only the works of art produced by Turkish artists were presented to the public for the first time, is now the dream of Turkey's powerful dream of the establishment of the Turkish Opera Association of Turkish Republics under the participation of the 9 Turkish republics, and of a Turkish artist who first composed an opera by Selman Ada. National and international tours have increased the number of representations at an unreachable level in past tenses. An approach has been made to make art accessible to everyone, not just for those who have the means to do it. In 2009, 242 local artifacts met with audiences, while in 2012 the number was 392. Again, only 29 per cent of the total exhibited works belong to our country's artists in 2009, while the figure has reached 41 per cent in 2012, and that is the true nationalism in art, and that is the ownership of its values. This approach should also be expressed as a social response. Once -- at work, there was a version of various provinces -- the opera came to the province, they watched it, they asked it out, how was it? In terms of numbers, we see 50,000 new audiences added over the last year, followed by 439,619 exhibits in the State Opera and Ballet in one year, and increased by this perspective, which has brought the art to the locals. The State Opera and Ballet provides various educations for children and young people, not only as an art institution, but also as an educational institution, as part of the agreement signed by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in 2010, allowing our children under state protection to have an art career. A scene first organised as a child's opera and ballet should be expressed as having been held during the AK PARTI rule period. The governments that have invested the largest investment in opera and ballet so far are the EC PARTI governments, that the institution's budget increased 203 per cent from 2002 to 2012, that it reached 212 million Turkish liras in 2012, and that the improvements and achievements of public consciousness in a country have increased by 19 per cent. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that the community has reached a common aesthetic level, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0017par0121	Thank you, Mr. Goody. Tripoli MP Safija Seymenoglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you are, Mr. Seymenoglu.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0018par0125	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget of the General Directorate of State Theatres for budgetary talks in 2013. I hereby salute the High Council. The State Theatres have taken on an important task to improve the culture's contribution to socioeconomic development and regional development, and have successfully completed their repertoire with great care to carry out the mission, performing their plays in every corner of our country. State Theatres have been represented since 1949 in theatre scenes, where artistic creativity has been transferred to society most effectively. In 2002, our theatres served 12 provinces, 28 scenes, while 23 provinces, 60 scenes today. Our state theatres, which are determined and determined to fulfill the importance and necessity of being at every point in Turkey, will also include new scenes that will be opened in 2013 to the family of State Theatres, Manisa, Kayseri, Çanakkale, Mardin and Şanlıurfa. State Theatres, Ankara, İzmir, Bursa, Adana, Tripoli, Diyarbakır, Antalya, Erzurum, Konya, Sivas and Van were also interested in theatre audiences, including Gaziantep, Maraş, Elazığ, Malatya, Samsun, Çorum, Zonguldak, Aydın, Rize and Army. State Theatres, whose most important goal is to bring everyone to theater art wherever and under any circumstances, represent an average of 6,000 people a year across the country and reach 2 million viewers. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are honored worldwide by State Theatres, which receive an important part of national theatre awards every year, and by awards they won in the international arena. The State Theatres, which are invited to many international festivals and events, participate in these organisations with their plays and projects within the programme. One of the most important activities of the State Theatre is to carry out international theatre festivals. In this regard, my science, Tripoli, is also ▪13. The International Black Sea Theatre Festival was held. The State Theatres, which are not only intended to open a curtain, have maintained very important services this year as well as social responsibility projects, as every year. In this scope, all children were allowed to watch theater for free by the Theatre Project. ▪ Each School is a Dramatic Project, and our teachers are trained by our theatre artists, and their own games are successfully performed by our elementary school students. The project, which started for children working on the street to go back to school, has contributed to the development of sense of responsibility and self-esteem, allowing street children to take part in the games, and has taken an important step towards bringing them into society. These games were taken to the repertoire by performing theatre studies for disabled children and adults. For the first time in Turkey, the Okuma Theatre for visually impaired children was carried out by State Theatres. The State Theatres have worked with them in theaters to contribute to the social and cultural development of prisoners, to ensure that they are brought to society, and provided free representations in prisons. In order to provide morale and motivation for Syrian refugees who have come to our country, Hatay and Alexanderun have reached a 100 per cent capacity with intense interest in two different game representations of the Diyarbakir State Theatre as a children's play. Mr. President, with the budget reserved for the General Directorate of State Theatres in 2013, I wish you all the best of the budget, with the belief that the concepts of theatre art and unity and peace in society will be reflected in life in the most realistic and most effective way.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0019par0140	Thank you, Mr. Seymenoglu. İstanbul MP Ismet Uçma. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Flying.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0020par0144	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Turkish Writers' Office in 2013. I salute your committee. Dear lawmakers, countries have various export products and resources; some are gas-rich; some are oil-rich; some have manpower or technological resources; some are well-run. But we have an important inventory that is not in any other community or society, that, when we export to the world, we can build weights in the composition of civilization, and we can redefine the civilization of the future, and this is our writing work. The President of Turkey's Writers Association is a special budgetary, rotating capital, Istanbul-based institution, which is established under Law 6093, which has been published and entered into force in 30/12/2010. Turkey is the world's largest authorship in all other sciences, especially Islamic scholars. It is estimated that more than 500,000 writing works are available throughout Turkey, especially in Arabic, Turkish, Persian, Armenian, Syrian and other languages. This inventory will be clearly detected in the coming days by handovers and detections. Dear lawmakers, if a mercy language cannot be used in the world today, if it can't be served as a common good, peace in the world can't be provided as a linear, and if there is a sense of Islamophobia and a nation whose name has been added to the end of its name, it gives us a historical and cultural roots that the children of a nation cannot be identified with terrorism and Islam can't be an instrument of fear, writing gives us a historical opportunity and a document. If writing can be opened to the world today as it should be, it is possible to see clearly what our own civilization code can add to humanity and the universal message. Because the only community, the only human world, that can be called by these works as universal message bearers while history continues to exist in vicious cycles among the children of Hacer (Sara) and the children of Sara (Sarah), is indeed members and members of this civilization. The world's problems, chaos, the ability to reach the cosmos from chaos, is to dominate the earth with a sense of positioned behavior, cliques, not ideological approaches, but of all human beings. Writing works, dear friends, are organic matter, so they get sick, old, and need cleaning and skin care, just like humans. It is of great importance that our works be preserved and transferred to future generations through this new institutionalisation. Our oldest work in the Library of Solomonia is in Arabic poetry and is about 1,380 years old, dear friends. We have about 400 artifacts over 1,000 years old. The overall age average of our writing works is 400 to 500 years. Amongst the work of our Writing President, especially the restoration of libraries, storage operations, the restoration of modern techniques to provide better service... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the education and the reading...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0021par0154	Thank you, Mr. Flying.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0020par0156	I thank you, all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0021par0157	Samsun MP Cemal Yilmaz Demir. Here you go, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0022par0160	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Customs and Trade, with respect to the General Assembly. Turkey is located at the intersection of a turbulent geography such as the Middle East, the Balkans, the Caucasus, and also the world's most important trade and energy lines. It's hard, but we're in a geography full of opportunities. We defend peace, stability, solidarity and democracy in our region. In the case of solutions to problems in the region, we always express strongly that not only Turkey, but all the countries in the region, will win. As you know, since we came to power in November 2002, we've signed major reforms in both political and economic areas, testing the accuracy of our steps in the global crisis. We believed that by bringing a new approach, the era of making money should end. Therefore, we have taken measures to enable the real sector to revive and rely on the country's economy, to speed up its investments. Unlike many other countries, we have overcome this without support from the IMF, trusting our own dynamics, our own people. The security environment, provided by political stability, has enabled foreign investors to invest in our country even in the global crisis. In the last decade, about 100 billion dollars have directly entered our country and nearly half of it has come after the global crisis. The Ministry of Customs and Trade quickly redesigns our country into one of the easiest and safest trade countries in the world. We made the foreign investor trust the government, the policies, the programs explained, and thus moved us to a very different position in the world. Turkey's EU-defined budget deficit met the Maastricht criteria, which was in better position than 2.6 per cent and 18 EU countries in 2001 and was 3%. The central budget deficit was 1.3 GDP in 2011. This result is better than 23 EU countries. As of 2011, Turkey's debt rate is at 39.4 per cent below the Maastricht criteria, and lower than 21 European Union countries. Customs facilitate legal trade, boosting initiative and competitiveness in countries. By moving from this point, the work continues quickly to increase the competitiveness of our entrepreneurs by forming the world's safest and fastest functioning customs administrations. As a result, customs has been cut short. In the first six months of 2012, 72% of customs declarations that were processed in imports were completed and delivered within the first 24 hours. In total, 8 million 797, 785 vehicles were processed and exited during this period, with 71,907,263 passengers entering and exiting our country. As of September 2012, the volume of foreign trade was approximately $289.5 billion, including $17.5 billion imports, $153 billion exports. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, in 2012 the new Turkish Trade Law, the new Turkish Law on Debts and Hal Law, which significantly affected our business life. The information system for our tradesmen and artists, the basic dynamic of our economy, was created by ESBIS. For the first time in the history of the Republic, a strategy document has been prepared and implemented. Here, I want to point out that the loan rates used by our tradesman have been reduced from 47 percent to 5 percent during the AK PARTY administrations. We've increased the rate of subsidies from 20 per cent to 50 per cent. We've increased the credit limit to 42 times 100,000 TL. We've brought ease to pay off the debt of our shopkeeper. The financial crisis, which began in September 2008 in the United States, quickly transformed into a global crisis, a global recession. Another area that this crisis has destroyed is the labour market. The crisis still has its impact on the labour market. Despite the economic recovery of the world in 2010, unemployment continues to rise in many countries. If we look at the employment figures for Turkey, the unemployment rate rose to 14.9 per cent in April 2009, by 8.2 per cent in the second quarter of 2012. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As I stop speaking on this occasion, I would like to thank all members of the Ministry, especially our Minister, who has been involved in preparing the budget, and wish the budget well, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0023par0173	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Tekirdağ MP Özlem Yemişçi. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Yeshchi.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0024par0177	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Competitiveness Foundation under the financial law of 2013. I salute your high council. The Constitution's Article 167 ▪ mandates the state to take the necessary measures for the healthy and regular functioning of markets, monopoly and cartelization. Under this decree, the Association of Competition was established about fifteen years ago, under the obligation to enforce the Law on the Protection of Competitiveness No. 4054. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are good to criticize, critical is bad, main opposition is good, opposition is good, power is bad. Let's put that logic aside for a minute or two. The product of work is execution. For ten years, we've been giving you constant performances for our critic, and you've had a lot of thanks, but we haven't stopped listening to you. We need you, we need you. Someone's gonna talk, someone's gonna work. You've talked for ten years, the economy has grown; you've talked for ten years, the Competition Foundation has improved. We're a good team. The Competition Agency operates to ensure, protect, and improve competition in the markets of goods and services. The institution conducts investigations, investigations and investigations into the initiatives that the law has given it, in accordance with its own initiatives, when it is applied to it or by its own initiative. Through these activities as part of the competition's defence, the institution has been directing public opinion towards a more competitive country's economy and taking on a role in preventing possible competitive violations. As it is known, one of the chapters in our negotiations with the European Union is competitive policy. Competitiveness is responsible for the implementation of competition rules, which we can define as competition law and mergers, and for public enterprises and private initiatives of competition policy chapter 8. The competitive rules, which are an important part of the competition policy, are also studied in this chapter. The 2012 Progress Report, drafted by the European Commission, states that our country's legislation on antitrast and mergers is advanced. The commission report also underlines obstacles to competition in the 11 industrial sectors, with the Competition Report published by the Competitive Association in March 2012, as in the banking sector, has strengthened the application record with many decisions. The Competitive Association is an exemplary institution that enhances awareness of competition and also promotes competitive culture. On the other hand, they briefed the public on the Competition Foundation and its activities and shared their 15 years of experience with their fellow believers, with four of which began to be published in 2009 and published in 2012. It is important to remind and stress that the Competition Agency, which closely monitors international developments in its field, has participated in several activities abroad in 2012. In particular, they have actively represented our country on various international platforms and regional bilateral platforms, such as the Economic Co-operation and Development Organization, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the International Competitive Network. At the end of my words, I would like to point out that we appreciate the effort and determination to perform the tasks given to him in an effective way by the Competitiveness Agency. As an AK PARTY group, they have our full support. I wish our budget well, and salute our grand delegation. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE)
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0025par0187	Thank you, Mr. Yeshchi. Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0026par0191	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the budget bill of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism for 2013. I salute the General Assembly. Precious lawmakers are the most important element of the political, economic, and social policies of the countries, because they have a wide range of influence. In addition, employment, consumption spending, the supply of raw materials to other sectors, the share in national income and exports raises the socioeconomic importance of the agricultural sector. The world's food demand increases by 2% each year, but the supply cannot respond to this increase. In the last decade, food demand has increased by 20 per cent, while food production capacity has only increased by 8 per cent. No doubt it is important for water sources to lose its property in Turkey, which is estimated to reach about 85 million in 2023. Agriculture has an important place in the coming years to create sustainable, safe and adequate food production, food safety, and quality of life. According to national revenues, 9 per cent is also a sector that contributes 25 per cent according to employment, which is almost the only economic resource in the rural area, feeding and housing. In the past decade, the population of Turkey has increased by about 8 million, while agricultural areas have been dramatically reduced, production has either declined or has not increased in most plant products. Due to the wrong agricultural policies implemented, there have been fewer than 2.5 billion hectares in the fields of agriculture. During the AKP, agriculture, unfortunately, became the most unstable sector. At this time, the average annual growth in agriculture was 2.2 per cent, while the overall growth rate in the economy was 4.6 per cent. Turkey is a self-sufficient country in agriculture, while unfortunately it has been a net importer for the past ten years. In 2011, imports of agricultural products broke the record of republican history, and agricultural products reached an external trade deficit of 2.3 billion dollars. Unfortunately, Turkey has reached the point of importing over $8 billion in agricultural products per year. For the first time in the history of Turkey, the country of agriculture, it has had to import even hay. Dear lawmakers, I've just said that about 25.5% of employment in Turkey is people who work in the agricultural sector. That's a very important number. In the United States, agriculture's share of employment is 5.1 per cent in the 1.6 per cent eurozone, or 3.6 per cent in the countries of the European Union, but in Turkey, 25.5 per cent. In 2000, there were 7.8 million farmers who lived on agriculture, while in 2011 there were 6.1 million people, 1.7 million people who were cut off from agriculture. As this decline took place, Turkey gave up production not because it moved to modern agriculture or became an industrial country, but because the farmer was crushed and drowned in debt. Dear lawmakers, the government's constantly bragging support bonuses mean nothing more than an attempt to unplug the agricultural sector today. In 2012, agricultural support was estimated to be 7.2 billion Turkish liras, and 2013 as 9 billion. Agriculture uses about 3.5 billion/liters of diesel per year and taxes 2.5 lira per liter of mazotta. It's more than 8 billion TVs and VATs from the diesel alone. What's going on here? He gives the farmer 7 billion and gets 8 billion back within the year. So you don't give anything to the farmer. And we're giving the luxury yachts tax-free fuel to the farmer you so much care about. Today, the farmer's loans have driven the farmer into debt and swamp with high interest. The number of loans the farmer has used in the past decade has reached 30%. That means putting more interest on the farmer. Today, the farmer, unfortunately, is downsized under high interest rates. Look, let's take the sugar beets, the production of 22 million tons has dropped to 16 million tons. The price of sugar beets hasn't changed in ten years. The manufacturers are crying blood. The manufacturers in Mush, Ağrı, Bingol, Bitlis still sell their sugar beets for 12.2 cents a pound. The base price of this 1 ton of sugar beets is 122. So, how much is diesel today, fertilizer prices? Considering that, it's a tragic situation. In 2002, in Turkey, wheat was 30 cents, diesel was 1 lira; a manufacturer selling 3.5kg of wheat could buy 1 litre of diesel. Today, diesel is £4, wheat is 60 cents; 7 kilograms of wheat must be sold in order to buy a liter of diesel. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important obstacles to efficiency in agriculture is the smallness of business and the fragmentation of land. It seems that Turkey's agriculture will be struggling with this for much longer. Turkey needs land collection of 13 million hectares. During the 2003-2011 period, AKP's collection was only 1.3 million hectares. Again, in many places, the gathering of land due to wrong policies and practices has brought the peasant and the farmer face to face, with negative consequences, contrary to what was intended. It's not as pleasant in livestock as it is in agriculture. Although we are a very favourable country in livestock, Turkey has also become a country importing from its exporter position in the production of living animals. When our country is a country of agriculture and livestock, we are now a country that eats the most expensive meat in the world. The point of 30 years of animalism policy is that the number of cattle, 16.5 million in the 1980s, reduced to 10.5 million in cattle, and the number of sheep with 50 million to 25 million, and the number of goats with 16 million to 5 million. Another issue is the sad situation of animal manufacturers in Turkey. Animal manufacturers have been forced to sell the animals they have at the expense, even the dairy animals, because of the illegal animal that entered the country with the first imported animal and carkas meat. In Diyarbakir, Ağrı, Kars, Van, Bitlis and many counties, producers have stopped feeding because of rising food and hay prices and have started selling their animals for harm. Dear lawmakers, as a result of wrong agricultural policies and privatisation policies, thousands of families living off tobacco and tobacco products have been unemployed, and they are forced to emigrate forced from their production relations. Between 2000-2002, the number of families living on tobacco and tobacco was 119,728. Adıyaman, Bitlis, Mush, Diyarbakır, Malatya, Batman and Siirt count for a huge number, when other cities of tobacco and tobacco are produced. As a result of the AKP government's privatisation policies taken over by the past DSP, MHP and ANAP governments, almost all tobacco factories sold have been locked up and unable to rebuild. Thus, there has been a state of foreign capital in terms of tobacco and tobacco products. Over a million people who have made a total living on tobacco planting have been left unemployed. And guess how this population lives under the circumstances. In the same way, the amount of tobacco produced has also been significantly reduced from 160,000 tonnes to 45,000 tonnes in nine years. Right now, it can't be ignored that we're in a position to import and not produce tobacco. THE privatisation of TECEL factories has left thousands of workers unemployed. Another important issue is that the AKP government, especially as a means of increasing cigarettes and alcohol, uses cigarettes and alcohol in order to exit the economic crisis. In this sense, the AKP government first increases smoking and alcohol during every economic crisis or inability to achieve economic goals. This is the policy of patching gaps within the OTV ratio of 6.3 shares in other pencils. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0027par0214	Thank you, Mr. Aksoy. İstanbul MP Sırrıyya Önder. Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0028par0218	Mr. President, very few dear friends, I salute you all. Now that the Court has made it pointless and impossible to evaluate ministry budgets in terms such as technical, location, efficiency, let's pass on the culture ministry's part of tourism and discuss some culture. That's how the budgets will go from now on. Here, valuable speakers from the ruling party already appear to be a ministry bulletin, and that's what really happens. I mean, Mr. Secretary and the bulletins that we have, the documents, the documents that have been distributed to us, tell us enough. It's more than five minutes to go out there and repeat them from a written text. I mean, if they could just come out here and share their personal experience of culture, of art, maybe tourism, the General Assembly would be a lot more complicated than that. If they stole plums, he'd be okay with it when he was a kid. Talking like a ministry bulletin doesn't really have any effect, as a director, just an alienation effect. What is this? They're handed a piece of paper, they're coming out, they're repeating each other. Today is the anniversary of El Biruni's death, a more powerful rumor that he is Turkish. He lived about a thousand or so years before that date, so let's talk a little bit about culture and art, which he translated from Sanskrit into Arabic, and he wrote a saying in his work, Potancali (Arabic: "People's thoughts are all sorts of things, and peace and development in the world is based on that difference. " Now, Mr. Minister of Culture, there's no need to hide him, he's someone I respect and love and have a personal friendship with. But aside from that respect and love in this political field, I'd like to say a few different things about the situation of the country, in which it is the Minister and the Ministry, because you can say the most contrary things on the power council. I'm sure he'll be troubled by what I'm about to tell him or hear if it's Mr. Ertugrul Günay we know.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0029par0223	Then they put him in jail.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0028par0224	Now, there's a deputy, the theaters are like this, like this. We went to schools, we did this, we did that. He said a lot of simple water things. Two or three days ago, they were tried in İzmir for supporting the conscientious objector, Faith Suver, for displaying Gogol's play "Palto" by the Yenikapi Theatre in İzmir. I think three days ago, the Blessing Nazlı Mastar was sentenced to six months in prison, including the artistic director of the theatre. If I were the Minister of Culture in this country, I'd be very uncomfortable with it, and I'll tell you one thing too much, I'd quit. Normally, it would be a normal reaction, but nowadays it's kind of overrated. Dostoyevsky, you know, we all came out of his coat for him. Akakijevic is a hero, a poor man. He trembles, he collects and buys a coat - a whole lifetime of hard work - a story in Petersburg. Then one night, the bandits will take it away. He goes to an important man, and the man snaps at him - his whole world coat - how dare he! It's the most important line of the game! Because he thinks it's important, he can't be near her for any trouble. Then he snaps, walks out that door and freezes to death. After that, the ghost of Officer Akaki begins to roam and takes away people's coats. So if you shared a game you were watching, it would have been useful. It takes away people's coats, and it takes away that important man's coat. The game is one of the most valuable plays in theatre literature, the way the poor receive the rights of the poor, the way they seek and receive the rights of the oppressed. The Kalinkin Bridge, in that sense, is something that the poor always pass by, and the poor wander around, and one day, the rich will take away their coats from the rich, so that the oppressed will get what they deserve from the cruel. The court interpreted this game as alienating the people from military service. It's like a ban of the game, like an oasis, like alienation of the military... what's that... what's that? Here, you keep bringing in new bids in case we lower the price, reduce the age, look at these numbers, if we can round up the roll callers. If those who exhibit a piece of art are being sentenced to prison, if I were Minister of Culture, I would really resign. And I'll never...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0030par0227	I think those who judge Gogol should resign.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0028par0228	It'd be like...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0030par0229	So I think it's important to say that Dostoyevsky is the judge.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0028par0230	It's Gogol, who's being judged, Mr. Secretary, that I should use the process efficiently, on the contrary, because...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0030par0231	Oh, no, I've been watching Gogol for 40 years in this country, that can't happen.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0028par0232	Now, look, you've reacted as if you were able to do so in that story of Pelto. Gogol is the one on trial, of course, and these are the ones who are being punished. If you could, you'd dig up the deceased from the grave, and that's how the courts are today. The Kazim Bay Cultural Center is being shut down. The second thing is that Kazim is not the Sheepman who is being tried here. Why? There's free work of art and culture there; sir, it's closed on the grounds that it's like a local. Finally, this decision was stopped, but he had to deal with it for two or three months. Why? Would you look at the size? You don't get money, it can't happen because the religion of the neoliberal system, the faith of God, the book of God, is money, it can't think of anything else, it can't think of anything else, it can't do anything else because it doesn't do anything without money. Now, if we had the time, we'd want to talk about what the Ministry of Culture, the Minister of Culture, thinks of cultural identity, but we know what his party thinks. They rejected the right to cultural identity in the constitution in the new constitutional commission. Mr. Secretary knows best what kind of concept this era has and what it is. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] By publishing a few Kurdish books a year -- a good deed, I say by handing it over -- you can't take yourself out of that responsibility. You're expected to react when all this comes together, Mr. Secretary. Again, I regret that Gogol is not being tried there. But can the theaterer be judged, or can the theatreer be judged, or can he be judged for having Gogol perform such a play? Moreover, this is happening in your lzmir, which is a separate event that increases the power of expression. I salute you all with respect and love. I'm going to have the main conversation in the Internal Affairs budget for 20 minutes. Good luck with that.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0031par0242	Thank you, Mr. Commander. Hakkari MP Assad Canan. Here you go, Mr. Canan.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0032par0246	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism Writing Works. On this occasion, I salute you all. Congressmans, we see once again that the ministry, which operates in two important areas of our country, such as culture and tourism, cannot have a budget in line with the importance of this area, unfortunately with the 2013 budget. This is a clear indication of how much the government values art, culture and tourism. In fact, this approach is not only subject to the current government. It's the same thing when you look at the cultural policies of every government in the past. I think it's very important for democracy to show how mature our culture is. Members of parliament, writing that contains a very important portion of our cultural values are cultural assets written in history, art, literature, religion, and many other areas. These handwritten artifacts are the first-hand sources of the world of science and art that collect basic knowledge of the period and the ground. It is of great importance, of course, to have these artifacts preserved, to have our multicultural identity introduced to the world, to be passed on to future generations. For the purpose of carrying out this important task, the Ministry of Writers of Turkey was established in 2010 by Law 6093 and the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. An important part of the budget is needed by the Head of the Writing Arts Association, which has a special budget, to be presented to the ministry in its original form, along with library operations, to simplify, to do research and to promote the work of writing throughout the country. However, it is also clear that the issue has not been given enough attention with this parting budget. Members of parliament, budgets reflect not only the economic and financial situation, but also the political preferences of the authorities. I think it's enough to look at a country's cultural policies to understand the level of modern civilization. Because cultural policies include not only theatre, ballet, opera, writing, art and literature, but also life forms, basic human rights and freedoms. Therefore, the country's cultural policies also reflect the country's level of democracy. Yes, the number of theatres has increased, the number of representations has increased, and the number of audiences has increased. These are really important developments. But if artists aren't free, art isn't allowed to live, books are collected, works can't be presented in different native languages, there's no telling if there's a right cultural policy there. Again, if two important groups in a country are still banned in public areas, the main language magazine, newspaper, book is banned; intellectuals, journalists, politicians, artists are in prison or exiled because of their thought and expression; then cultural policy in that country becomes a cultural policy that must be discussed. In fact, these issues are more important than how much of the general budget is earmarked for the Ministry of Culture. Because they represent the country's point of view, the level of our democracy culture. Dear friends, culture is a whole of every material and spiritual quality a society has produced in its historical process and passed down from generation to generation. However, each society sets out through its own cultural reality as it performs its own culture and art. The official cultural policy of the state in our country today is unfortunately far from reality. It is the greatest evil in this country in terms of pluralistic and democratic culture to try to reduce this wonderful cultural wealth of the Anatolian cultures, which have passed through 36 civilizations and have lived in 27 ethnic groups. Because pluralistic culture is a social phenomenon of our country. So the time has passed for a culture condemned to one language, one color. Therefore, the rapid implementation of pluralistic culture with legal changes is important for strengthening the integrity of the country. For him, it must be the ministry's most important task in the country to try to pass on to future generations with the understanding of humanity's common heritage, by sticking to the originality of all works that contribute to art and culture, without segregation of religion, language, race and ethnicity. In this framework, such as Ahmadi Hani's "Nubehara Bıçukan" and Fakiye Teyran's "Hespe Resh" should also be translated into Turkish and restored to cultural heritage. Dear friends, one last thing I want to say about my constituency, Hakkari, is that Hakkari, my constituency district, is a city with the rich potential of historical culture and tourism as it is known. However, due to security policies in the region, these rich cultural and tourism areas of our province have unfortunately been torn out of the public and have become a security area. One of them, the historic Haqkari Castle, is still used as a base by a military unit. The castle of Hakkari, used by soldiers, is one of the greatest cultural heritages of the people around him, even though it is left today only a bare rock. It's a need for humanity and civilization to reopen that legacy to its owners. No modern and democratic law state would deny its citizens in the 21st century. At the same time, many historical and tourist plateaus such as Sat Lake, the Bercelan plateau, also live together in four seasons, are closed to tourism and public service. In our province, the cultural centre, which was founded in 1993, has not been launched since its construction has not been completed for 19 years. We would like to remind Mr. Secretary here once again of our request for the public service of the House of Hakkari and the Highova Cultural Centre. Mr. President, we believe our country needs a democratic culture art policy in accordance with its reality. Based on the need to protect and protect cultural values of all segments, the production of art for everyone and making it available to all segments of society across the country will give us a realistic dimension to boast about our differences. With these feelings, I wish the budget well, and I salute the high council again.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0033par0261	Thank you, Mr. Canan. Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0034par0265	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Customs and Trade under the 2012 Central Management Budget Bill. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are one of the key instruments of the multi-sounding economic choir of Customs and Trade, created by the AKP masters by the motto of restructuring in the economy. The Ministry of State, which is responsible for customs that previously existed, represents the components of this ministry, with the Ministry of Customs and four departments of internal trade within the Ministry of Multi-industrial and Trade. I would like to once again emphasize that we do not desire the continuation of the multi-head and multi-parted structure in the economic field, but that it is necessary to ensure integrity under economic management. However, it has been wrong for domestic and foreign trade to be integrated into separate ministries in order to ensure integrity. In this regard, we do not find it right to a ministry whose responsibility is limited to domestic trade that the customs administration, which should be involved in foreign trade, has been forced to bend. Honored lawmakers, as it is known, the Ministry of Customs and Trade was established by the Court of Justice and Development under the law issued by the Justice and Development Party two months before the 2011 general elections, on the basis of the 03/06/2011 date and Article 640 of the Law. The government felt the need to change the ink three times before it dried up, and as always, the caravan was fucked on the road again. The AKP's government has made the first amendment to the organisation's decision on hiring personnel and has excluded the new appointments from the central position run by the OSYM. This provision by the AKP's government, which has shown mercy to all governments who have come into office and practice of favor, is a declaration of knowledge. Again, one of the key things that stood out in the first amendment is that around 200 chief controllers, controllers and interns working at customs were assigned to inspectors' staff overnight. The AKP government, which has made this arrangement for current personnel, has not yet taken a single step towards the working conditions and rights of customs guards serving under the most severe conditions in customs areas. Customs guards, whose primary duty is to fight smuggling, who serve 24/7 without interruption, have to work armed. However, there is continued to be a lack of legal rights, such as the disbursement share, gun reparations, compensations based on the challenge of the mission. Even forest rangers receive gun compensation, but customs guards are forced to serve with weapons that should be scraped, let alone received compensation. This undermines the tenacity and enthusiasm of customs containment personnel. Members of parliament, one of the ministry's most important tasks due to the commitment of customs administrations is, of course, the fight against trafficking. Trafficking poses a major threat to public safety and health as well as competitive markets. Economic measures, financial measures and border controls are also important in preventing this multi-directional threat. However, Turkey, as a result of the AKP government's policies, has been transformed from illegal worker to mobile phone, cigarette to drink, tea to sugar, fuel to large cattle and small cattle. As we look at the data found in the Police General Directorate smuggling reports, the increase in captured contraband has been increasing over the years. I'd like to share with you some of the contraband in the report to draw attention to the point of the oasis. The captured illegal cigarette was 10 million packs in 2009, while the number grew yearly and increased over 159 million in the first eight months of 2010. The captured mobile phone was 39,809 in 2010, while the number reached 119,918 in 2011. The captured meat weighed 4,585 kilograms in 2009, while the number increased to 74,947 kilograms in 2010 and 82,503 kilograms in 2011. The captured tea reached 862 tonnes in 2010, reaching 2,352 tonnes in 2011. The amount of stolen tea caught in the last four years -- by the minister's statement -- is 15,576 tons. The captured fuel -- by Mr. Minister of Bizizat -- was 37,200 tonnes in 2011, reaching 30,800 tonnes in the first six months of 2012. Mr. Secretary says the fuel captured is due to effective work and measures, but he is either unaware of the big picture or he is trying to hide it officially. Because law enforcement sources, international crime traffic and world crime averages, according to official statistics, are at least 5 or 10 times the number of contraband seized in the market. In this case, the fact that at least 5 times the amount of illegal goods captured has been circulated in Turkey's markets reveals its total nudity. You yourself created this situation as a result of the economic and financial policies you're implementing. The victim you often applied for to patch your deficits with tax, private consumption and customs increases has turned Turkey into an illegal paradise. In this way, you have delivered illegal trade in fuel, liquor, cigarettes, tea, and electronic items to nearly one fifth of the total market. Members of parliament, another issue regarding customs doors in the ministry's field is the lack of customs doors and delays due to bureaucratic formalities. In particular, during summertimes, when our foreign citizens in European countries came to spend their vacations, the tail of vehicles and sufferings that had reached a dozen miles has also marked last summer. The tail ordeal is not limited to outsiders alone. In the 11th of last October, the management that updated their computers was sufficient to create a truck tail that was over seven kilometers [7 km] long. Customs doors are another matter that has not been opened in areas where customs doors are needed or are planned. We open the border gate on February 14, this year. The border gate, which he claimed was opened, is still not open, according to the words of the AKP government. In addition, Çukurca Grapelı and Şırnak Gülyır border crossings are important border crossings for the region's economy, which are still waiting to be opened. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the postponement of the law known as the AVM law in society, in one way increasing the pressure of capital on politics, and in the other, boosting the appetite of some politicians because of the economic rant that was supposed to be created or created in the AVMs. This cycle is sometimes focused on politics by the Privatisation Administration. The idea of justice for this mindset, which continues to crush millions of our small tradesmen and artists under the unfair and unlawful rivalry of the AVM (AVM) ends at the borders of the party sign. Nearly 25 per cent of the small tradesmen, who have been comforted by the prospect of this law for years, are shut down before they can even pay for it. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, another issue that I have benefited from the ministry's presence in the field of duty is the issue of our tradesmen and artists' back-to-back insurance, registration and debt. As it is known, a variety of regulations have been made regarding debting past periods and counting them from the period of insurance. However, the number of tradesmen and artists who are unable to benefit from these arrangements for any reason and who have to get out of the system is very large. In particular, it is the greatest expectation of our tradesmen and artists, who were taxpayers before 2000, to be accepted as an insurance period and to be given the right to debt for these periods without a requirement of insurance. On the basis of the budget talks, he wants once again the Minister's attention regarding this expectation, and I hereby salute the General Assembly again. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0035par0281	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Yozgat MP Sadir won't stop. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0036par0285	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. On this occasion, I salute the grand jury. Dear lawmakers, agriculture and food are vital to the survival of our people. It is a fact that agriculture is a strategic sector for the continuation of food production for generations, accepted by the entire world. With the wrong practices of AKP rulings, the agricultural sector has been neglected, our farmer, our producer has been condemned to poverty. Despite the Minister's proud Earth Protection Law, there is a reduction of 2.5 million hectares in agriculture over ten years. Mr. Secretary, you can't become ambitious in agriculture by reducing agricultural areas. The villages are empty, the young have left the villages, the agricultural fields are empty, it can't be produced, unfortunately, and these people are going to the slums, where they're facing serious problems. Those who can't find a job are involved in crime. We're dealing with a social situation like this. Precious lawmakers have seen an increase in agricultural product prices in the AKP's ruling period, while agricultural input prices have increased far more than inflation. In the ten years under the AKP, the loss of 13 quadrillion liras, only the wheat producer. I'd like to point out, lawmakers, that's only 13 quadrillion dollars lost to the wheat manufacturer because of inflation, so we can do that to anyone who claims otherwise. Dear lawmakers, while the farmer's income has decreased, there have been a great deal of increases in the prices of agricultural inputs such as diesel, fertilizer, energy, medicine, seeds. When you came to power in 2002, a liter of diesel was worth $1.00, and 1 kilogram of wheat was worth 35 cents, so with 3.5 kilos of wheat, you could get 1 liter of diesel. Today, diesel is $4.24, wheat is 60 cents; 7 kilos of wheat can only buy 1 litre of diesel; that points to 50 percent loss. Likewise, 1 kilogram of wheat can buy 1 kilogram of DAP fertilizer, while in 2002, only 1 kilogram of wheat and 1 kilogram of DAP fertilizer can be bought today, so it's concrete evidence that the farmer got out of the mix. The farmer's tax on UV and VAT for diesel used in agriculture is $7 billion, 840 million, about 8 quadrillion liras in old money. So, how much is the gas support you paid the farmer for this? 600 million liras, that's 600 trillion liras with old money. You charge 8 quadrillion liras from the farmer, and you only give the farmer 600 trillion liras for diesel support. You see much of the tax you receive from the farmer, even one tenth of the tax you receive from the farmer. Before coming to work in 2002, did Mr. Prime Minister not tell you whether he was going to cut down half the gas from the farmer's diesel in every province he went to?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0037par0292	He said, green diesel.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0036par0293	For ten years, the farmer has been waiting for the Prime Minister and AKP to keep their promise, ten years. The farmer's debt endures every day, the farmer is in foreclosure and jail. 22 people from only one village of Yerköy are currently in foreclosure clamps, and six of them have been sentenced to prison. I'd like to come from here to support the farmer. As you know, Mr. Secretary boasts that every time he takes a word, he's betting on support for agriculture and animalism, he's up to this much in 2002, and we've increased it to this much. As a matter of fact, lawmakers, I think it's an excuse that a government that's been in power for ten years, a party that's still going there ten years ago, still referring to it. You've been at work for ten years. On the basis of 2005, when we consider your three-year period, you have only reached a quarter of today's figures. Well, then you -- with the same logic -- are a very, very unsuccessful power in 2005. So that makes sense... now, a boy who was born ten years ago, today he's 10 years old. I mean, if you turn around and you're ten years old or you're 1 years old, what's the point of saying that? If you love your God. You're going to say today, you're going to say today and you're going to say it at fixed prices, you're not going to fool people by playing with numbers.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0038par0298	You're going to talk about what's supposed to happen by indexing it.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0036par0299	Of course. In 2006, you issued the Agricultural Law, and you said there was no less than 1 percent of the geyrisafi national estate to support the farmer. Have you been able to get that number from 2006 to today? You didn't make it. In 2002, you didn't even reach the number of governments you didn't like. In order to increase your number, you add government support to land collection efforts, you add irrigation spending to state support, you up and up your figure. So let's be honest: Why are you ignoring these figures in 2002? Doesn't the DSI have any watering investments in 2002? You must also consider the figures of 2002. Now, according to this law you have passed, valuable lawmakers, the loss of the Turkish farmer is 27 quadrillion liras as a result of failing to abide by your own law. Look, 13 quadrillion in wheat, 27 quadrillion in support. Forty quadrillion liras, I'm only telling you in two pens. Dear MPs, when the Minister mentions support, he makes a reference to the OECD, asking OECD for help. And according to OECD figures, our support is 2.2%. When the minister says that, does the Undersecretary stop, and the Undersecretary says that this number is 3.7 percent?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0039par0306	Of course, he'll have to pass the Minister, how he'll be a minister in the future.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0036par0307	Now, Mr. Secretary, should we believe in TÜİK, believe in OECD, believe in you, believe in the Undersecretary, or believe in the Turkish farmer who doesn't have any money for tea? Mr. Secretary, I assure you that OECD is French to Turkey, and you are French to Turkish agriculture and livestock! I assure you, at the time of the distress of the French animalism, you imported 250 million dollars worth of live animals and meat from France, and the French saved our livestock. We want to thank you for the engagement you've been given and for buying our meats, our animals, for the price of the farmers of Serbia, for the price they've written to you. Can you tell me, for God's sake, is there a country that imports grass, hay, sacrifice and develops animalism? So, in the same way, at a time when potatoes were fed to animals, tomatoes were thrown on the road, onions were thrown into the creek, watermelon was left in the field, cucumbers, eggplants were thrown into the garbage, nuts from America, apples from Chile, pomegranates from Bulgaria, garlic and beans from China, watermelons and cabbages from Iran, and Turkish agriculture grew from Spain, and its farmer's well-being had risen in an environment where lettuce was imported from Spain? You've done animal count three times, and you've done different results in three. You've given the numbers of hay imports twice in one week. Mr. Secretary, with the numbers you flipped, you finally pissed off the Prime Minister, and you made me forget math. Mr. Secretary, with all due respect, I'm telling you in the face of this -- politically, you're walking around like a lying shepherd, you're just missing your cap. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, speaking of shepherds, let's talk about livestock. Let's see what's going on with the dying livestock during the AKP period. Mr. Secretary, we've succeeded. He says, let's see what firsts he's achieved. During the Minister's term -- in the history of the Republic -- we imported sacrifices two years in a row. But it was not enough for them, and We made for them a grain (of straw).
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0040par0314	That's a first.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0036par0315	After 16 years, we imported live animals and meat, as well as Mr. Prime Minister came out, there was no need for imports, there was enough food material. He said, two months after he said, it was decided to import. The Prime Minister has given the order, and the Minister has followed. Another first time he's done it, pork is sold in markets. He also set records for pig farms and pork consumption. In the last three years, you've given $5 quadrillion to foreign farmers because of the import of live animals and meat. So, in spite of all the imports, did the meat get cheap? And the meat didn't get cheap. I mean, it's not good for the manufacturer, it's not good for the consumer. You've ruined the manufacturer, and the consumer can't eat cheap meat. In fact, something happened that the markets were expensive to sell imported meat for domestic meat, and the citizen got ripped off. When you didn't even have the proper information to indicate animal presence, you started a zero-interest loan to animalism without a plan. You started without a schedule, without setting up the infrastructure.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0041par0319	That was to make his followers rich.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0036par0320	Four thousand lira heifers...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0041par0321	It cost $8,000...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0036par0322	When the investor, who was a stranger to the industry, suddenly came to market, the 4,000-dollar heifer went up to 7,000 lira. Now, is that zero interest if you love your God?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0042par0323	How much is it now?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0036par0324	How much is it now? Now let's go back to $3,500...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0043par0325	Two... Two... where's the $3,500? He can't sell it for $2,000.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0044par0326	No land, no sale.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0036par0327	...can't cut it, can't get the town to take it.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0043par0328	He can't sell it for $2,000.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0036par0329	Well, I asked the Minister before, he didn't answer. Mr. Secretary, once again, who used this loan? Who took advantage of this loan? I mean, did the poor farmer use his whole life, his future, his farm, his livestock, or did he use supporters? If you're sincere here, you publish a list of boroughs, see who you give it to, and the whole nation sees it, and you put it out in your heart. We expect these lists from you, Mr. Secretary. Look, that loan wasn't used by a poor Anatolian farmer. You asked the farmer of Yozgat, and the peasant of Yozgat, for the deed of Yozgat, and for the deed at the heart of Yozgat. It's not enough...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0043par0330	He'll be downtown, you'll need a guarantor, and the officer will vouch for him.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0036par0331	Downtown, of course. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You asked for a deed downtown. It wasn't enough, sir, you wanted two officers to vouch for you, but the Jordanian Hijazi used this loan, Hijazi. You made him use it, you transferred it to him, Mr. Secretary. Now, there's a lot to say, but I'm afraid my time is limited. I wish you the best of your budget, and I salute the high council.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0045par0336	Thank you, Mr. Durmaz. Afyonkarahisar MP Kemalettin Yilmaz... Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0046par0340	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the budgets of the General Directorate for Agriculture Reform and the Organization for Tobacco and Alcohol. I salute your high council. Yes, the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting is being discussed, the Turkish farmer's problems are being discussed, but the AKP ranks are empty. AKP's value to the Turkish farmer is evident at this time. Dear lawmakers, like many sectors in the past decade, the agricultural sector has not been well managed. Our farmers didn't get the rights of their product, so they're struggling in debt, loans, mortgages, foreclosures. Turkey's agriculture, its farmer, its feeder are heartbreaking. You have to be blind and deaf not to see it. I, from here, from this nation's stand, from where you've brought where you've brought it from in ten years, not in the worst state of our agriculture, but in order to get out of this bad situation immediately, I would like to share them with you. Dear MPs, this country is all ours. I'd like to express the expectations of our farmers so that our important sector, our agriculture, our livestock, can stand up and breathe in peace. Dear lawmakers, due to our manufacturer's wrong agricultural policies, as I have just stated, debt, interest, foreclosure, execution, loan shark, mortgage, and even prison clamps. Mr. Minister, our farmers must quickly restructure their debt to the Agriculture Bank, the People's Bank and private banks and their debt to agricultural loan co-ops and beets cooperatives, so that our farmers can breathe comfortably. In order for our human to produce, the field, the tractor, the barn, the animal, must be saved first and immediately from the foreclosure and entrails. Not much, just give our farmers a three-year option. Our loyal, loyal, hardworking, loyal farmers will give you at least 10 times what you have given them. Respected lawmakers, as in the world, meat is a matter of milk, and it is also a matter of grass, as it has recently been on the agenda. In Turkey, the milk producer must receive immediate and deserved support. Let's not forget that without weed, there's no milk, and without milk, there's no meat. On the other hand, there's no calf without a mother, in the expression of Anatolian. If necessary and properly supported by our government, our people continue to be condemned to imported meat, imported milk, imported food, even imported weed and sacrifice. The head of our farmers is fresh, so rest assured, he can save his tractor, his farm, from the foreclosure, so he can plow his field, plant it so we don't have to import hay. Precious lawmakers, the most important inputs in agriculture, diesel, fertilizer, food, medicine, seeds and irrigation, should be subsidized at least as much as in European countries, and if the EV and VAT are removed immediately, the enthusiasm and excitement of our farmer, our producer, our feeder, our worker will increase. Let's not forget that four-wheel drive diesels in the jeep should not be at the same price in the snow, in the winter, in the snow, in the cold, in the heat, in the mud, in the dust, in the tractor, in the harvester, in the potato. In the marine sector, the agricultural sector must be immediately used from cheap diesel to yachts, freighters, and ships. If these are done, there will be no empty fields in Turkey, especially if the oil and feed plants are produced with a guarantee. The 5-6 billion dollars we have to pay each year for oil and bait imports will be in our pocket. Our farmer's hand work will be judged in this way. Our productive land, our water, our sun and our hardworking people are a very serious resource for Turkey, and we shouldn't waste it. If we make the right move at the right time, our farmer will laugh. At the farmer's, he'll be able to shop with the tradesman, turn the wheel of the tradesman so the factories can keep producing. The foundation of this cycle is agriculture. The ministry, which has been tasked with managing the agricultural sector, has been tried to restructure it with legislation decrees. With these arrangements, I'm afraid the structure is even more corrupt. Some 330 ministry bureaucrats who served in high-level tasks were appointed ATM officers, and they are still managed by power of attorney. It has a negative effect on the workers' enthusiasm and excitement. For this reason, records are not kept healthy either in the provinces or in the country. As the speakers have just expressed, we have to say, "Who should we believe?" Controls are not being done properly, smuggling is not preventable, sub-stairs and unregistered production is in control. This threatens the health of our people as well as unjust gains. This country is the problem with all of us -- our farmer, our farmer, our milk maker, our vegetable producer, our potato, our beet maker, our problem, all of us. We can't leave them alone with these problems. From here, we shared our proposals in the amount of time we could afford. Mr. Secretary, these are not unknown suggestions, but why don't you solve them? Look, don't you realize you're in power on your own? Do you have coalition partners who have to stop you one way or another, or do the United States, the European Union, the Israeli agricultural barons, not allow you? You're the authority. If you pay attention to our suggestions, our dying agriculture and animalism will be condemned to death. And I don't think anyone would want that either. Our feeder is currently unable to estimate the animals he has tied to his stable for 14-15, or even $16. They're lining up for fifteen or sixteen days in combinations. Mr. Minister, please, for God's sake, stop importing this live animal and meat to Turkey, prevent smuggling. With import, you may be able to save today, but in Turkey, you end agriculture and livestock. Our farmers, our producers, are exhausted. So that our farmers can't see a tenth of your value to Syrian refugees. Don't be surprised if soon our farmers want to apply for Syrian citizenship and come to Turkey as refugees. In this feeling and thought, I look forward to your support for the Turkish farmer, and I salute your grand delegation, wishing you'd remember the desperate farmers you ignored when preparing your ministry's budget.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0047par0356	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Elekek MP Bahattin Sugar... [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0048par0360	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party regarding the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in 2013. On this occasion, I salute you all with my sincerest feelings. It is our wish and wish that our country, which is the heart and center of civilization and the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, will speak to the world through its activities, introduce its voice to humanity, and, however, determine and deliver the message that Turkey will give to the world. Each of us has to contribute to that. However, more importantly, the right identity and vision must be made over the right values. We know, alone, that with the Minister's zeal, this country cannot be promoted. A country's message, of course, is not a person's responsibility. In this sense, our institutions, such as the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Council of Prime Ministership, the Editor-in-Chief of Press Publishing and Information, TİKA, the presidency of Turkish and Relative Community abroad, the TRT and Anadolu Agency, have both jurisdiction and strategic responsibilities. The point that we underline is the lack of coordination, the discipline and image of project applications, if noted. Turkey has the power to produce and implement many projects with its own energy dynamics. It also has the means to implement it in the form of co-ordination of state institutions and through the private sector. Tourism is one of Turkey's most successful sectors in recent years on its way to integration with the world economy. Taking into account this success, Turkey should be able to make improvements in its potential, to take part in international tourism revenue, new markets? He should be able to implement his strategies. Turkey, where four seasons are together, is one of the rarest tourist gardens in the world. Our country has great potential for tourism with its historical, cultural and natural values. This wealth also contributes greatly to the development of our country. I believe that the overall trend of tourism in the world is towards cultural tourism and Turkey has significant potential, and should take the incoming tourist on a tour of Anatolian culture. So I believe tourism will spread in Asia Minor. A right direction will bring out the culture of a region, bring it to life, and give it a new appeal. In such an understanding, for example, there will be many opportunities for tourism, such as yachts, golf, thermal and health tourism, winter and natural sports, hunting. But we don't get enough of them. Another factor that increases tourism is the abundance of historical monuments. Ancient ruins, famous monuments, mosques, churches, and so on have always attracted people's attention. In addition, natural beauty is an important source of interest when considered. However, as the main problem, it appears that relatively low-income tourists have come to our country with the system, including everything, and that this system does not benefit the public or the tradesman. The dynamic of the tourism industry plays an important role for our young populous country, with its contribution to economic development, the need for foreign currency, as it has an impact on the creation of new jobs and thus on the reduction of unemployment. Amongst all this work are some problems among tourism policies. As a growing number of tourists are hosting each year, unfortunately, the spending of guests per person is dwindling day by day, as the figures show. Although the number of tourists has increased, the rate of foreign currency per capita has been reduced. Due to our foreign policy, there appears to be a massive drop of visitors from Iran, Syria and Israel, including 2012. There is a decline in the number of guests from OECD countries. Due to the implementation of the system, including everything in Turkey, tourists traveling between the airport and the housing plant do not go to the settlements near the facilities, thus limiting economic contribution to the region. Since prices are low, food and beverages offered at these facilities have low standards. As a ministry, there should be stricter inspections on this issue. Promotion should be valued more, and more support and attention should be given to participating fairs. Films and ads for promotion should be made. Because of some travel agencies' failure to fulfill their commitments during their foreign and domestic tours, our citizens are suffering major losses. Stronger measures must be taken in this regard. It is sad to see that our ministry, which serves a large area, has a low budget and has been going on for years. A ministry, which is expected to work on both culture and tourism, should have more budgets. It is also clear that our ministry, who wants to invest in culture, will not be able to respond to expectations with this budget. Even with such a narrow budget, we should also celebrate the Minister and his colleagues who are trying to do something. We know that the Ministry of Culture and Tourism has made a great effort to bring historical artifacts of this country's value from abroad to Turkey, to its rightful owner. In this regard, especially in Western European countries, it is a joy to see the results of the work done. It's a shame for those countries that our country's values and works have been stolen and gone to these countries. It's a black mark on their own history. I also congratulate the Minister on his work. Mr. President, good lawmakers, when it comes to culture, we must first and of course think of our national culture. The fundamental phenomenon that constitutes a nation is the national culture that sustains its existence. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism needs to be given by different generations with national cultural values that will prevent new generations from falling into cultural shock and identity crisis, and will respond to the needs. In this respect, art and artist must be valued, and art must be done to honor art and art. The artist should not be prevented, but should be contributed to the organisation and trade unions in which artists can act in unity. Ataturk, the founder of the Republic, with the revolutions, means that one of the lifebloods of a nation without art has been severed. The importance of its word to art and to the artist has shown its value. Our art and artist maintains its determination today and guides society's development. Cultural values and art have a worldwide quality that brings communities closer together. The way to get to know and understand a society is to see where it is in the activities of culture and art. We too must appreciate our unique culture and our wealth and strive to bring it to future generations. At a time when Turkish cinema has gained such momentum and its productions are interested in the international community, the ministry's organisation and the productions that have damaged Turkey's image should also be done in response. Recently, debates have begun that historical series are wrong and distorted. Our Ministry must take steps to make productions that have passed through a correct date filter and reflect our values, and then the reviews will have meaning and value. Mr. President, I'd like to remind you of another important matter. Over the years, the diaspora abroad, the Armenian lobby, has been promoting genocide with all its resources. By misleading historical facts, they mean Turkey openly to our territorial integrity by making it look like a criminal and a prisoner, insulting Turkish people. As a former political man, I believe our Minister has the same sensitivity that I have, and I know it. Despite allegations and slanders in this direction, we expect further work from the Minister. For example, this year is the 100th anniversary of Balkan wars, more accurately known as the Balkan disaster. More than 2 million Muslim Turkish populations have been exposed to violence, hatred, insults, and massacres, are on their way to immigration, barely saving their lives. New works and monuments must be made to be passed on to new generations and not to be forgotten about the Balkan tragedy that our economist experienced. I hope that our historical province, my hometown of Bilecik, which is in the cradle of organization and salvation, will receive the necessary support for your ministry's work. Our Bilecik province cultural centre is under way, but it is our greatest wish to build a new cultural centre in Bozüzük district, with 70,000 inhabitants. Also, the lack of libraries in the province of Bilecik... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and I want the work done on these, and I salute all of you when I end my promises, and I want the budget to be good.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0049par0388	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Iğdır MP Sinan Okan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0050par0392	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valuable opposition lawmakers, 17 valued lawmakers sitting in the lines of the Justice and Development Party, for the current budget of the Ministry of Customs and Trade and the Association of Competition in 2013...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0051par0394	How many do you have? What disrespect!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0052par0395	Have you seen how many there are in the MHP? There's one person talking here, how many are there?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0050par0396	...on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. I hereby salute your High Council. First of all, I'd like to start my speech by honoring our Minister of Customs and Tekel, Vice President of the Nationalist Movement Party, Gün Sazak, who was killed in a treacherous ambush in our country on May 27th, 1980, pre-September 12th, and reminding us of his model political personality, the Ministry of Customs and Tekel. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, however much we may discuss the Ministry of Customs and Tekel, I'd like to show you something.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0053par0399	Ministry of Customs and Commerce.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0050par0400	A different example of the Justice and Development Party's ministries, perhaps you have an answer to that: our Transport Ministry's ID card, with the Turkish flag on it, the Turkish flag. The ID card on the previous app has a Turkish flag on it. And I confirmed that the new identity card they put on their new website has a Turkish flag on it.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0054par0401	Why?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0050par0402	Sir, why are you uncomfortable with the Turkish flag? Why are you removing the existing Turkish flag? Come on, explain it here, for God's sake.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0055par0403	No DMV, afternoon budget.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0050par0404	It doesn't matter, isn't it your Ministry, another Ministry, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0056par0405	You said the Ministry of Transport.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0050par0406	I call it the Ministry of Transport.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0056par0407	Is there a minister of transportation there?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0050par0408	Why, different ministries? Different ministry? You don't own the Department of Transport, it's your Ministry, isn't it? By the way, the Minister of Transport will come and answer here.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0057par0409	This afternoon. Okay, okay.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0050par0410	Mr. Minister of Transport, I wonder why you're uncomfortable with the Turkish flag, so you can answer that.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0058par0411	No one is bothered by the Turkish flag.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0057par0412	You went in the wrong way!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0050par0413	By the way, I'm celebrating Indian Property Week, valued lawmakers. The week we're in is Indian property week. You know, protecting domestic property starts with customs. Therefore, I suggest that our Customs Ministry consider this to itself, as well as our Customs Ministry, which has turned into the Ministry of Trafficking. Now, Mr. Prime Minister, in recent times, has made a speech here and said: "We are not permitting smuggling." Let me tell you how Mr. Prime Minister and his citizen, Mr. Customs Minister, denied this with a citizen's report, denied his own citizen, his own citizen, his fellow citizens of Rizeli. A report by the Rize Chamber of Commerce, titled "The Tea Sector and Problems and Solution Proposals" is being drawn up at the beginning of 2012. According to the report: Tea smuggling has become a common trade due to its unique structure of the eastern and Southeast Anatolian region.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0059par0415	Live animal trafficking has become common.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0050par0416	Despite all warnings and measures, illegal tea trade has been unstoppable and even smuggling continues to increase. Mr. Prime Minister, a few days ago, here on Monday, he said we're not going to be allowed to be fugitives. I would advise our Prime Minister and our Minister of Customs to read this report from his fellow citizens, our fellow citizens, our citizens of Rizeli. Now, the government has a customs door in the country, and there are customs districts in which the PKK is collecting and bringing it to our borders. Now, how come you don't pass through smuggling? Reports on trafficking that has just been released to the press today say there is a loss of the government, the state, or Turkey, of $3 billion per year, only because of oil trafficking. Over the course of your ten-year mandate, about $25 billion is expressed not only in the pocket of the state, but in today's newspapers, where terrorist organization PKK has entered into its pocket and the pockets of its supporters. I'm a witness to the fact that our customs officers, our customs guards, who work in such a troubled ministry, do not have the safety of their lives. Where am I a witness? I am a witness to the fact that our citizens were abducted in Iğdır Diljuça, that our customs officers were not able to operate there, and that they were banished when they made a sound. Now, we live in a time when mules used to be smuggled, and now they've laid pipelines. Yeah, the pipeline, they put two miles of pipelines on our border, not enough -- it's a joke -- and they set up a refinery. Mr. Secretary, they've built the refinery, they've put a two-mile pipeline on our border, and they've set up the refinery at the end. How come you don't know what you do? Where does that happen? In today's Turkey, they're setting up a refinery on our border, a two-mile pipeline to our border, but your Ministry doesn't know about it. Now, it's not enough, you get up, and you say -- there's something new in co-ordinating your ministry on smuggling -- you're going to be given the obligation to prove jail time. Mr. Minister, I ask you to reconsider. And of course, one of the main functions of the Ministry of Customs -- you're the Minister of Commerce -- is to protect our merchant, protect our mover. Today in Iran, hundreds of our trucks are being sued by Iranian customs for water reasons. Hundreds, thousands of trucks, for different reasons, were the size of the warehouse; no, no, it was the size of the warehouse. There are fines being issued, bribes being taken to court, road money being paid, territorial money being paid, but the trucks of the same country are rolling in Turkey; they come not with one warehouse, but with three or four warehouses. I have to say that our Turkish trucks, Turkish movers in particular, have reduced the chances of competition, and, of course, I have to say that you've committed an injustice to Turkish trucks at Dilu Customs Gate. Isn't it up to you, Minister, to the other customs doors in Hakkari, Van? Is the only customs door in Iğdur up to you? How come there are two different apps in one country? You put in a million-dollar fine for three litres, five litres of gasoline, you confiscate their trucks, right next to us, people, you don't go out there... and you don't sound like a runaway mazota that's sold on the streets in East Whitebutt. Likewise, in Haqkari... now, I've read the new statistics again, which is the border crossing of the most fugitive mazot in Turkey, Hakkari, you're letting that one go. If we live in this country, if the laws of this country apply to all of us, then what is this? No, if it doesn't work for all of us, if you're ignoring a part of our country and you have another plan, tell us, and we'll know. There was a Boralan Border Gate. Of course, the Boralan Border Gate has been a snake story for years, and it's turned into a lie story, and it still hasn't been opened. Animalism has come to an end, especially in Iğdır. Why? Because so many runaway meats pass through the border, so many illegal animals pass through Turkey in East and Southeast Anatolia, which is a significant part of its livelihood -- it has also reached the point of end of animalism because of the illegal meat crossing our borders. There's no limit to illegal cigarettes, alcohol on the market. Two-thirds of the products sold in the regular market are illegal, so we're in such a state that we're running away from everything... so don't go too far, get out of the Parliament, head towards Rediay, you'll find the fugitive of everything in the belly of Kızılay. So you might want to take a look at this. Of course, we are well aware of how the PKK trafficked in Mersin Harbor and how Barzani worked with him. The customs department is flooding, Mr. Secretary... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...as you just had it done. Samsun had been flooded, and we knew it from the screens. The public building was flooded, but your Ministry building was flooded, the Ministry building watered down...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0060par0428	Thank you, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0050par0429	That's interesting, too. There's actually a lot to be said about the Competition Foundation, but unfortunately, we haven't had enough time. I wish our new budget, though, was a blessing.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit01spe0061par0433	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Congressmans, it's 14 o'clock. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0061par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 39th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue our fifth round of talks with the Central Management Budget Bill in 2013 and the Central Management Law in 2011. The commission and the government are in place. Now it's time for the Republican People's Party Group. The first speaker is Bursa MP İlhan Demiröz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0062par0008	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to share our views on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism in 2013. I salute all of you and our fellow citizens watching us on the screen. We're discussing the budget of a ministry that has been established under the law, filling up the ministry corridors with counselors who have managed it, who have not yet completed the construction in two years. Dear lawmakers, agriculture is very important for Turkey, socially, economically, politically, and is the real social insurance of our country. We're discussing the situation of a sector that contributes to national income by 9%, 25 per cent to employment, feeding, housing. I'd like to start with the evaluations: diesel, fertilizer, seed, feed, irrigation fees. Because in the last decade, the Turkish farmer's biggest problem is input prices. Dear MPs, we're using the world's most expensive diesel. In the European Union and other countries, we know that agricultural masoths are 50% cheaper than we think. The concessions to air and sea transport sectors are unfortunately not applied to agriculture. I'd like to share another matter with you in the stream. 2.2 Taels of 4.3 TL, which is paid for 1 litre of diesel in Turkey, is OTV and VAT (KDV). We farmers, farmers, use 3.5 billion litres of diesel a year. When you multiply this by 2.2, the value of the audience is 7.7 billion dollars. Thus, the manufacturer repays more than agricultural support with taxes on diesel alone. We see that the AKP government has already taken the money that the farmer put in one pocket today as agricultural support in the budget. When we did a product-acary comparison, our friends before me told us about wheat, that there was 1 litre of diesel in 2002 with 3.5 kilograms of wheat, that we took 7 kilograms of wheat and 1 litre of diesel in 2012. I'd also like to give you an example of our area of pears. In 2002, you were buying 1 kilogram of pears, 2 litres of diesel, 12 kilograms of DAP fertilizer; you were paying 1 worker's salary with 7 kilograms of pears, and you were buying 1 tractor with 10 tons of pears. Today, in 2012, we receive 1.25 litres of diesel with 1 kilogram pear, 2 kilogram DAP fertilizer; 1 worker's salary with 50 kilograms of pear; 1 tractor with 50 tons of pear. The average price of fertilizer has increased by 360 per cent in the last decade, but I would also like to say that the support from the budget to the fertilizer is about 16 per cent of the farmer's money. Dear lawmakers, Turkish farmers are not getting support from the state, Turkish farmers are supporting the state. If we say that the farmer paid 18 percent for fertilizer and electricity, agricultural medicine and food 8 percent for VAT, it's going to show who supported who. Today, when our farmer uses diesel, he employs finances, fertilizers, and medicines and works for the merchant, TEDASH while using electricity. As for the irrigation fees: between 2002 and 2010, irrigation rates increased by 230 per cent. The price of electricity used in agricultural irrigation is 100 per cent more expensive in Turkey than in the European Union and the United States. In addition to bank loans, our farmers today deal with acts due to irrigation troops and debts to TEDAS. One example of this was shown in Niğde, with the actions of the potato makers and the producers of the narcissist in Mersin. Our region is in the 13 plain villages of Bursa Karacabey, where 45 farmers are sought today by the gendarmes, and 300 farmers are being carried out. I'd like to report to Mr. Secretary that we have farmers in village coffee that inform each other of the arrival of yellow taxis. In 2002 and 2012, when we look at the bait prices, we find that the meat chicken, egg chicken, milk oaths, and food oaths increase by more than 250 percent. In turn, animalism has been directed towards imports due to wrong policies since 2003. For the first time in the history of the Republic, dry beets were imported in 2005, and animal imports were allowed in 2010 and animal imports began. And this year, I'd like to say that we've started importing hay and weed. In livestock, the solution is not just to support the great manufacturer by destroying the small manufacturer. And butchering is not about importing meat. Unfortunately, the mindset, which has put the animal in straits with the wrong policies, also sees the exit in the wrong policies. The rise in red meat production in the Ministry of Agriculture's publications is due to TİK data changing methods. Suddenly, in 2009, the production of 413,000 tons of meat was 777 thousand tons in 2012. As for the problem with meat, Mr. Minister of Agriculture said, "Sir, during the AKP, prosperity grew so high that our people began to eat much more meat, we are suffering for it." The country has made a statement that is incompatible with the truth. Dear lawmakers, at the end of 2011, 2 million farmers have strayed from agriculture; 2.5 million hectares of agricultural land are not processed. Turkey is now a net importer of agriculture. Turkey, which is self-sufficient in agriculture, has, unfortunately, lost its property and has become a net importer. In 2002, the foreign trade of agricultural products, which overwrote 102 million dollars, was permanently open since 2003, and reached a record level of $3 billion and $589 in 2011. Dear friends, I would like to say that there are problems in the nuts, that the money we pay in the rice, cotton, corn, corn, the money we pay in imports is $27 billion $105 million, that the FISKOBIRLIK is unworkable, that the same games are played in tea and the price of the tea base, but I would like to say that Mr. Prime Minister has left the tea makers to cope with their troubles, saying, "I don't interfere with the private sector."
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0063par0025	Potatoes, potatoes...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0062par0026	I'd like to point out that there's something wrong with the tea makers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We see that our olives and olive oil producers have not been compensated for the producer's labor, given the increase in input costs, lack of support premiums and market conditions.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0064par0030	Thank you, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0062par0031	I'm finishing, sir. If you'll excuse me for one last word...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0064par0032	But that's our time, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0062par0033	Yes, sir. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0064par0035	Slap Congressman Orhan Slept. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0065par0038	Mr. President, before I begin my remarks, I salute Erdal Eren, who was hanged thirty-two years ago by the September 12th junta. (HPP) I regret to inform you that the courts who made this decision on that day were on duty today as well as at Silivri. My dear friends, I have made a promise regarding the 2013 budget of the Tobacco and Alcohol Market Organization. I hereby salute you with love and respect. Before we discuss the budget of this institution, I'd like to brief you on the state of tobacco production and alcohol production in our country today. In 2002, there were 472,000 tobacco manufacturers, and today there are only 70,000. In 2002, the tobacco plant was 230,000 hectares, and today it was reduced to 110,000 hectares. In January 2003, the lowest cigarette price in January 2003 was 0.85 lira, the highest cigarette price was 2.75 lira, the 70-pound New Raki was 8 lira; the lowest cigarette price is now $5.88% increase; the highest cigarette price is 8.5 lira, 310 per cent increase; the New Raki was 51.50 lira, 640 per cent increase. Cigarettes and alcohol have averaged a 500 per cent increase from 2002 to today.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0066par0041	So they don't drink raki...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0065par0042	Congressman, we gave them a raise so they wouldn't drink the raki, but I wish you hadn't taxed the whiskey. Don't drink the raki, it's for the whiskey. I know you mean it. Yes, my dear friends, in addition to the privatisation of TEKEL, six cigarette factories owned by TEKE (TECE) were closed, as well as 110 tobacco companies, 19 liquor companies, 84 marketing offices, 10 salt businesses, 1 match factory and 1 sung silk viscoz factory. Among these closed factories are the Slap Cigarette Factory. Mr. Tokat also has a saying here in Tokat: If this factory is shut down, I will go to the Prime Minister first. I expect my deputy to fulfill that promise.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0067par0044	He'll do as he says.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0065par0045	So do I. It was sold to Nurol Limak Özltın Tütsab Enterprise Group in November 2003, along with 17 factory properties in alcoholic beverages. The group sold the 90 per cent stake two years later to the US Pacific of Texas for $810 million and the Texas Pacific for $2.1 billion to the British company Diageo in 2011. My dear friends, I don't want to use the word "pulling" which I know you don't like in terms of the dignity of the High Assembly, but I can't find another word in Turkish for such a sale. And for that, I apologize. Today, the smoking market has about 20 to 25 percent of illegal cigarettes. So, my dear friends, who does this smuggling business in this country? We all know it, it's a terrorist organization, so every cigarette sold in this country today is being poured out to our children as bullets. I'm thinking if there was a law passed on the prevention of funding of the terrorism we had given the House earlier, maybe today, this cigarette smuggling was blocked, and the cigarettes that were sold wouldn't come back as bullets to our children. In the meantime, my advice to our Ministry of Health is that if he adds this to the spots written on cigarette packets, I think it might be effective to get our people to quit smoking. Again, my dear friends, in the years of the ANAPP, when you were in rejection today, Mr. Özal boasted most about stopping cigarette smuggling, saying: "There was cigarette smuggling before us." Unfortunately, as a result of your tobacco policies, cigarette trafficking has re-spoiled. A festival is held at Bilgi University in July 2012, and after this festival, guests are served drinks. Of course, after this drink is served, the Prime Minister's wrath is suddenly directed at this institution. However, this institution has no authority to give alcohol licenses anywhere, which is entirely up to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, but I think our Prime Minister doesn't know about it.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0068par0052	On the contrary, it's wrong.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0065par0053	Again, the Lighthouse, the Lighthouse... its warehouses are being used as storage for the Lighthouse, which I hope the Prime Minister doesn't know about. As a result, my dear friends, Mr. Babacan says this institution will be closed as a result of a Council of Ministers meeting. I don't understand why there's a budget for an institution that's going to be shut down. Apparently, the people who caused the death want to pay for the funeral. We didn't take any role in killing tobacco in the country, so we won't be able to participate in funeral expenses. Therefore, I declare that we will vote no as Republican People's Party Group, and I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0069par0056	Thank you, Mr. Straight. Muğla MP Tolga Çangar. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Candar.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0070par0060	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs and the empty seat of power...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0071par0061	We're in.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0070par0062	Yes, thank God you're here. For 2013, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism has a billion, 851 million, 734 euros, and you spend it happily; 47 in a thousand, or 47 in a thousand. Now, on top of that... one of our friends said yesterday that the budget is political. I'm interested in this side of the business, and we've already talked about it in the commissions. Where we've spent 47 in a thousand, what we've done, what we haven't done, 70, isn't that enough, hopefully, next year, if we don't die, if we're alive... there's no use talking about it, because when it's time to vote, when it's time to vote, those who agree, those who don't... The curtain....this thing, it's going to end like this, so we're going to... Mr. President, I'd like to talk today about artists, literaryists, writers who have been attacked by sovereign forces for years. Let's talk about writers who were arrested for not thinking like a ruling party, who were condemned to rot in Silivri dungeons because they were opposed. Today, more than 100,000 people have gone to Silivri, you know, from all four sides of Turkey; we need to talk about them. Let's talk about a world-renowned, face-blown, modern-day Turkey's face-blown, Fadıl Say., Mr. Secretary, who was brought to court for commenting and criticizing power using it in a media environment eight hundred years ago. Today, actually, we need to talk about this. For example, I don't agree with your political views, and I said that during commission work, but because an artist expressed his opinion on the stage, we're not going to talk about the practices of Farhad Tung, Group Comment, Pınar Right, but where are we going to talk about it? And as a culture person, I think this is where it's located. At the same time, you've opened schools, archaeological schools, graduates, and then when it comes to finding work, we don't have a job. Send him to Greece? So Greece, let's say, employ our archaeologists? Those pregnant archaeologists, for example, two pregnant archaeologists in my area, are being laid off on winter day. You know, we should talk about this. Congressmans, the Ministry has a variety of orchestras, a variety of groups. I'll talk about it today, another friend of ours will talk about the theatre and the opera. So it's important to talk about what it's like to send these artists to political weddings, paid by our state, paid by our taxes, to Turkey, to modern Turkey's culture, to the life of art. Is that why we built these orchestras, so we could send these artists to the weddings of politicians, relatives of ruling lawmakers, or to those mayors' festivals for free? We need to talk about this. Let's talk copyright. Artists work for years. We need to talk about whether artist products are a product that requires the copyright of cultural products. Artists make albums. The next day, it's being bought the day it comes out, and it's being digitalized by someone, and all that labor exploitation goes to fun. Can't the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Turkey prevent this? Why hasn't this been legalized in years? We're very curious as artists. Look, you've all had weddings, and you've used wedding instruments, and you've left a tip in front of it. Is this tip taxable? You don't get taxes from a musician in the village, a traveling musician, but you get taxes from the city owner. What's that like? All of you settle in the village. Do you mean? I've got to put these away. Take away the tax burden of these people, these traveling musicians, so at least don't take taxes from that tip. It's a shame to me, to tell you the truth. Another thing I'm running short on, what else can I say in six minutes -- I've waited years in front of the consulates to get a visa, and now my friends are waiting. It's the biggest disgrace for an artist, but when a European musician comes to Turkey, he comes waving, here... 5th grade, half of us, not even a fifth of us, the street performers there get treated like Rachmaninov, and then he takes the money with a sack, but when we go to the concert, why is it that he can get into our unions without shaking his hands? Why can he come without a visa, how is that Western admiration? We just don't get it, my dear friends. I have worked on legal arrangements for these issues, and I continue to do so: I ask the members of the ruling party, speaking to their consciences: The day after tomorrow, when I give these draft laws to the Parliamentary Assembly, it has come from a CHP MP anyway, so let's reject this as it is, whether you want to say, friends, or say, that the artists of this country need these laws, let's support it together, let's have a conscience. Yes, that's right, Tolga Çangar, come, let's do this together. Are you going to say that together? We'll see about that in the days to come. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0072par0073	Thank you, Mr. Chandar. Antalya MP Yildıray Sapan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Sapan.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0073par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in 2013, and I salute you all. Dear friends, even though the number of tourists to Turkey is increasing, it does not reflect at a rate towards the revenue earned. We are the sixth in the visiting ranking in 2011, but we are the 11th in the income. Even a tiny Hong Kong is ahead of us in income. In 2002, one tourist dropped $697 to our country, while the figure dropped to $568 in 2011. This shows that during the AKP, tourism was down 129 dollars per person. Mr. Günay, Turkey is not behind its tourism goals, but the numbers have unfortunately denied it. Although the African market was mixed up in 2011 and there were 3 million additional tourists, the target was not achieved, and there were a billion dollars minus deviations. Actually, this negative deviation isn't the first. See, the DPT targeted $26 billion in 2012, but it's as clear as day when it's going to stay at $22 billion and it's going to happen at.4 billion. These are vital indicators of the failure of the Minister, who praises himself on every platform. Congressmans, Turkish tourism gives SOS, the sector can't see the front because we don't have a plan. He's investing all over the place, the industry's growing out of volume. Unfortunately, Mr. Secretary has failed to become a minister who can plan the future of tourism. Unplannedness is building concrete on our beaches. In 2030, at this time, only the elderly Poles, the poor Poles, will visit our country. But there is no hisses from the Ministry; on the contrary, there is permission to build a facility. Dear friends, facility inflation leads to cheapness, and cheapness is costing the industry. The tourism industry hasn't been competing in a long time. The reason he can't compete is because the costs are increasing. In particular, the OTV rate in alcoholic beverages increased every year is unfortunately difficult to compete with. It's driving the tourist into an off-the-book or sub-stair production. Unfortunately, there's been a lot of tourist deaths in our country due to bootleg liquor, and this is not going to be the end of it, it seems. The government must quickly imitate rival countries regarding the OTV. Dear friends, the industry also has a serious publicity problem. The ministry's budget was divided into tourism from 34 per cent in 2002 to 30 per cent in 2013. As the Republican People's Party, we offered to add $40m to the Credit Fund, but the AKP refused. Again, despite offering $160m in addition to investment spending, the AKP also rejected it. These two issues alone are serious evidence that you consider tourism a stepchild. His view of the industry also blends with the AKP he later joined. A major problem in the tourism industry is that hundreds of thousands of workers are out of work in winter because there is no winter tourism. The AKP has taken no steps in this matter. As the Republican People's Party, in the winter, we suggested that the SECs of tourism workers be paid by the state, but unfortunately that too was rejected. The reason why the beach facilities close in half the year is because tourism can't be diversified. Eighty-three percent of the 10 million tourists arriving in Antalya are trapped in six months. In other countries, it is 70 percent to 30. Dear friends, it is known that there are 125 million elderly tourists around the world who have the potential to spend $3 trillion. 20 percent of these are the upper income group in Europe. These should be moved to Antalya, especially because of the climate that is so suitable for the elderly. For that, serious people have to make serious plans. In winter, I doubt that such a long-term plan will be made by a mindset that closes its building places and museums at 1600. For there is a portrait of the thirsty and unresolved minister, while tourism is being destroyed in the future with natural beauty, forests, valleys, quarryes and HESESTs. Dear friends, as I said before, the tourism industry is at an impasse, and as a result, facilities and agencies have begun to change hands, into foreign hands. Unfortunately, bankruptcy is at stake in the unresolved industry with no plans for the future. The government has to say "stop." He must listen to the tourists and deal with the problems that have become gangrene immediately. Otherwise, every year you'll be deprived of this precious argument that closes the current scissors a little bit. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0074par0091	Thank you, Mr. Sapan. Mr. Binnaz Yuk, Istanbul MP, please come in.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0075par0093	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party regarding the budget for State Theatres and State Opera and Ballet. I'd like to start my talk by saying: When we look at today's globalization literature, it's said that any country, if it wants to be an important actor in global competition, has to care about science and art. If that were enough, Qatar, for example, would be one of the most important countries in the world with $86,000 per man's income. The same thing is said for the United States, for example, that its real power is not only in economic and weapons, but in science and art. Now, we're also going to discuss this science issue when national education and NGO budgets come in, and I want to talk about art here. First, I'd like to point out that expressing an opinion means paying a price in this country. You'll get sued, you'll go to jail. The state of the Republic of Turkey is afraid of ideas. Pen, typewriter, computer, paper, all of this is a weapon, and it's equal to a weapon. Freedom of thought doesn't exist in this country. Now, my AKP friends here are very few, so there are 3-5 people, but I expect someone to say, "Sir, in your time, in the 1930s, there was custody, but now that the future democracy has arrived, everyone can write and draw what they want." For once, that's not true, but I'm not going to go into it. Yes, there used to be these pressures, but there was no disrespect for thought and art. No Prime Minister had ever attempted to close the theatre, or had the statue destroyed, or ordered the theatre artists to display what kind of works they were going to display, had not questioned whether the content of the series was historically relevant, and had not ordered it to be shut down because it was not appropriate. No mayor ever said I spit in art like that. Now, behind this devastating view, I see that the Justice and Development Party today has taken on an entire state bureaucracy, political area, and the custody of social life. The only field he can't handle is art because artists in this country, artists with creativity, don't come out of the AKP-backed environment. Even in popular art. The Great Century, for example, is not only the audience here, but the audience around the world is breaking the record, and the time that comes up as an antidote is going off the air because there is no audience. So the idea is, can't you compete? Ban it. Now, State Theatres produce 150 representations a year, giving 6,000 representations, going on tours in 500 different cities, towns and villages, hosting 7 national and international festivals, hosting 40 foreign theatre communities, 3 representations abroad, 2 million viewers. What are their budgets in return? Its budget is only 173 million 695 grand this year, 12 per cent higher than last year. Compare this with other large, non-16th economies, and you'll see the difference. In the same way, there are no casts, state theaters, ballet and operas. For 30 years, theatreists have been unable to receive a salary increase, and they have to be satisfied with increases, such as a government official at any desk, although their area is a very special area. The state opera and ballet are the same, this year's budget is 211 million 885. Now, therefore, to become a global actor? Pass him once, that part. This country can't be a global actor unless it learns to respect its artist, its scientist. Finally, I want to finish with a story, a story about Ataturk. You know, Muhsin Ertuğrul is a great master who founded the theatre in this country. A play he put on the stage invites Ataturk, then President. Ataturk's aide from day to day comes to Ertuğrul, and says: "Our Reisicumhur is busy, can you open your curtains at a quarter after eight o'clock?" The answer of Muhsin Ertuğrul says: "Give my regards to our lord Reisicumhur, but this is not the casino of Eftalia the Mermaid." We open our curtains at exactly eight o'clock, and Ataturk sits down at five to eight, and at eight his curtains open. Why am I telling you this? If the same thing happened today, what would happen if the Prime Minister, for example, the State Theatres, answered like this? Think about it; it's one. And it means respect for art, and the state means seriousness, and that's two. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0076par0101	Thank you, Mr. Earth. Eskişehir MP Kazim Kurt. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0077par0105	Thank you. Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budgets of the Ministry of Customs and Trade and of its subsidiaries. I pay my respects. The ministry, which has been transformed into the Ministry of Customs and Trade as a decision-making operation under a law, has not been able to complete the legal organisation of the ministry, which is in effect the addition to the Customs Undersecretary. The municipal trade offices in 81 districts have not yet been completed. The customs and trade council, which should have been created and operated, has not been established or run. The authorized account cannot be established or executed. The tradesmen and artists were not gathered. MERSIS, considered a major goal of change, has not been fully achieved, and many areas have continued to fail. The ESBIS has not been completed. Law 5362 has not been updated, and the Ministry has been moved as tenants to twin towers sold by the Prime Minister to the Turkish Chamber of Chambers. False foreign policies directly affect domestic and foreign trade and thus eliminate border security. There is no security at a total of 1,662km of border security, 877km with Syria, 331km with Iraq, 454km with Iran, which is impossible to mention. Trafficking has increased greatly. The economy, which is already unregistered, has become an illegal economy. It's clear that the Ministry is inadequate in the fight against smuggling. Turkish consumers using the world's most expensive fuel use illegal fuel, which is largely attractive because of VAT and OTV payout. The ministry is unable to resolve this problem by organizing it. It has recently been discovered that smuggling has been done by laying a two-kilometer-long pipeline to the Turkish-Iran border. Now you have to ask Mr. Secretary: How many other oil pipelines are there within 1,662 kilometers? How much fuel has been missing from these illegal lines so far? What are your teams doing to deal with this? Co-operatives, consumers, trades and artists, which are considered to be protected by our constitution, are related to your ministry because it concerns direct trade. Well, what your Ministry did to institutions that should have been protected by this Constitution in 2012, what it would have done in 2013, it would have to be well understood from the budget. Based on past practices, their responses are negative. Turkey has not taken any serious steps to improve co-operatives this year, although it has been declared the year 2012 International Co-operatives. The 2010-2014 Action Plan, previously published, was announced by the Prime Minister on 17 October as the Strategic Action Plan for Co-operativeism, 2012-2016, almost unchanged. This plan, which does not satisfy co-operatives, will not solve the problems of cooperatives. For example, even though cooperatives have special laws and private status, they are still under no obligation to register in trade rooms. It has not been set in motion to change the old co-op laws. The collaborative department of universities hasn't dried up. Co-operatives have not opened vocational schools or co-ops colleges. Despite the elected auditors during the inspection of the co-ops, the appointment officers were not prevented from removing or aborting the elected officers. The laws they insisted on protecting our tradesmen were not even brought to the agenda. You are humble but sincere representatives of the Turkish economy, which works with what we call small trades and capital. The law on the establishment of retail laws or major shopping centers has not been established, which our tradespeople, described by Mr. Secretary as "The Minister," are expecting with great expectations. Our tradesman's tax, insurance, social security premiums, social security premiums have not been prevented. Not even very small businesses were taxed and protected in simple ways. Since small tradesmen have been able to register in trade rooms, there have been serious reductions in registration in trade rooms, the competencies, efficiency, democratic representation, and participation in vocational rooms have been reduced. A serious step must be taken regarding the approval of the business books of the small tradesman's professional rooms. That way, it'll make it easier for the professional tradesman to connect with the room. Again, we consider the efforts of trade institutions to combine themselves into professional committees as attempts to reduce the power of trade and vocational rooms, and we think it should be abandoned. The People's Bank must be the bank of the tradesman's bank, where trade loans must be extended by the channel of the tradesman's bail bonds. It's strange that when our tradesmen pay the premiums they pay for the workers they work for, even though they're guaranteed not to work, they don't have a living when they're sick, so when they can't go to work, I mean when they can't. Just yesterday, the Plan and Budget Commission was able to represent CHP members on the Governing Body of Social Security representatives with their proposals and efforts. As all of this is not enough, the 2013 budget shows that any tax increases, except for corporate taxes, will affect our direct tradesmanship, and 2013 will be difficult for the tradesman. In recent years, the fact that the Competitiveness Agency has not been able to operate or work is continuing today. The Prime Minister's statement, which is a disposable one, is a case of serious unjust competition and must be dealt with. Finally, on 4/12/2012, in the Official Gazette, for whom was the decision to change the Internal Process's Regime Decision? It's also useful to be told by Mr. Secretary. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0078par0127	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. On behalf of the person, in favor of İstanbul MP Mihrimah Belma Kın. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0079par0131	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism's 2013 financial budget talks. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, I salute the High Council and our beloved nation. You are well aware of the results of work done abroad and abroad in many areas from museumism in Turkey to librarians, art institutions to cinema, protection of our cultural assets, return and promotion, new production and restoration studies, tourism planning and promotion activities. The most important of international achievements is to ensure that the unique specimens of our cultural heritage abroad are returned to our country. A total of 64 works from Germany, the United States and the United Kingdom have been returned to our country. In our country's geography, museum services are being provided with 190 museums, 141 shrines, and 134 knitting sites, where all cultural artifacts from the past to the present will be modeled, removed from the idea of stable displaying. Dear lawmakers, until today only in Istanbul was the center for the maintenance and restoration of old artifacts. In addition to İstanbul, the Council of Ministers of September 8, 2012, it was also planned to establish restoration and consolidation regional directors in Ankara, Antalya, Bursa, Diyarbakır, Erzurum, Gaziantep, İzmir, Nevşehir and Tripoli. In this way, an important step will be taken to maintain the artifacts at the Turkish sath. In our country, 84 cultural centers are in operation, and three cultural centers, Bartın, Mardin Omarli and Zonguldak Teacuma, which were launched in 2012, serve as part of our 68 cultural centers. I also think that it would be important for our country and especially for the locals to open up Alazig, Hakkari Yüksekova, Iconia Karapınar and the Tunceli Ovacık cultural centers soon. The State Theatres have taken on an important task to improve the culture's socioeconomic development and regional development, and continue to perform their plays successfully in every corner of our country by carefully preparing their repertoires to carry out this task. To this end, the 2011-2012 Turkish theatre season opened its 152-qualified theatre work 6 million times and delivered it to about 1,800,000 viewers. In addition, we have had a very important ministry to open the Refik Ahmet Sevengil Theatre Library, the first theatre residency library in Turkey, where future generations can acquire information and contribute to their cultural development. Dear MPs, I would also like to remind you that the ministry supports special theater projects. In the 2001-2002 art season, 66 theatres received $319,000, while 178 theatres were supported this year at the 2012-2013 art season. Finally, I would like to briefly share our successes in our country's tourism. Our country, ranked 17th in 2002 in the number of visitors in the world tourism, is ranked sixth by passing 11 countries by the end of 2011. This unregisterable success was achieved by the policies of our government and ministry. Before I finish my speech, I would like to state in particular a few issues concerning Istanbul's province: the construction and restoration of the centre is scheduled to be opened in October 2013, in accordance with the decision of the İstanbul Ataturk Cultural Centre buildings and the Council for the Protection of Culture and Nature Assets. I would like to tell the Maslak Ayazak that the restorations of the proprietary structures on the Centre for Culture and Congress and the unfinished convention center will be completed and will be restored to our city's cultural and artistic sites. Turkey's Tourism Strategy and Turkey's Tourism Strategy Plan, along with Ankara, İzmir and Antalya, have also developed the city's tourism of Istanbul, which is my constituency. A variety of tourist products will be provided, city museums will be built, cultural structures will be restored, historical sites within the city will be developed regionally. With these thoughts and feelings, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism wishes our budget to be good, thanking those who have done the work, my friends from the Plan and Budget Commission, and bowing to your delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0080par0145	Thank you, Mr. Row. As a government, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting Mehdi Eker will speak first.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0081par0148	Mr. Secretary, would you please tell us the production of barley, cotton, tobacco, lentils, potatoes, onions, which are not in this book, which is not in the book that you distribute?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0080par0149	Here you go, Mr. Eker. Mr. President, members of the High Council, I salute you all. Today, in the 2013 budget brochure, which we distribute to you, all the activities that have been done in the decade we left behind in agriculture are explained in detail there. In terms of the Ministry of Agriculture budget, most of the issues mentioned earlier about my ministry's budget are, in fact, repeated over the past few weeks, with different circumstances. So I gave it away as a book because I didn't want to spend both the time of the High Assembly over and over and over again with the same issues, the same baseless claims, and the abstract real assessments, with the answers to them.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0082par0152	It's better if you don't talk at all. I'm going to answer to you about some of the issues mentioned here, and I'm going to tell you what projects we're going to do with this budget, if the great Parliament accepts the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, as long as my time allows it. Now, here, of course, some of the pears, some of the fruit, some of the products grow 150 products in Turkey, and you compare them with any of the products you want. So...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0083par0155	Give me another product, Mr. Secretary. Now, let me give you a comparison. Okay, do it. Now, one of the most important entries used by the farmer, for example, is mechanization. For example, ten years ago, to buy a New Holland tractor...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0084par0159	How much money did you save for Samana, Minister? I'll come, don't worry, I'll come. In 2002, a farmer sold 65 tons of wheat to buy a tractor. 45 tons in 2011.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0085par0162	Tell me about the gas. GEDA was selling 76 tons of corn in 2002, selling 48 tons in 2011. Look, you see the difference?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0086par0164	Tell me about the Egyptian imports.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0085par0165	It's all for show. Tell me what's going on. So now you can say it any way you want. He says, "Tell me at fixed prices, sir, when it comes to commercial non-profits." At fixed prices, I'll tell you: 19.2 per cent; 19.2 per cent of the growth of the agricultural sector in Turkey at a fixed price. Now, a friend of ours says, "Sir, the farmer can't use credit, he's miserable, he's foreclosure, etc." Now I'll say Yozgat, for example: In 2002, the Yozgat farmer uses 1.8 million agricultural loans, do you know what the return rate is?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0087par0168	Tell me. Listen carefully here. Look...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0085par0170	Tell me about the executive files. Listen, listen, listen... It's coming back 6.92 percent, 6.92 percent.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0088par0173	That's not true. So the only thing he's getting is $7.00 of the loan he's getting. That's not true, Mr. Secretary. That's how you play the numbers. That's not true. GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Secondly) 2012... 2012... That's not true. GEDA, PRIVATE AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Secondly) 2012; 236 million lira Yozgat uses loans... Your job was to flip the numbers, and now you're making the citizen flip. 236 million and a return rate of 98.43 percent. Now... 98% isn't the right number, just give me the general number. That's right, that's right. Sing 2003, 2004, and I'll come out here and apologize to you. 98% is a fake number. Now, it's been said here. Look, what a shame! What a shame! The Ministry of Economics... 98% of the time, it's a lie. I'm gonna go out and apologize to you. GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY SEEMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Secondly) Take the Trade Free Products List of the Ministry of Economics... If you're sincere, tell me the general. Do you know what they call this product? Most of this is unreal. He's only on the list, but he's not in the act. Besides, it could be in actuality, Turkey is a free economy; there's trade, if you're going to sell it, there's nothing wrong with it. It's obvious. It's obvious. Then you go out and take shelter in the rubber when you say, "Why is there so much import?" Now, about the nuts, they said: Turkey imports nuts from America. Dear friends, Turkey exported 230 thousand tons of inner nuts in 2011, 230 thousand tons of inner nuts. $1 billion, $820 million made money out of it. It's a record, so let's record this, $1 billion, $820 million. Write that down. You exported 40 tons because it didn't fit the house, 40 tons, 230 thousand tons, and 40 tons came back commercially because it didn't fit the house. Now, because of imports, Turkey imports nuts from America. They come and say it here. I mean, honestly, I'm sad and happy.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0089par0192	Tell me about the Diyarbakir Meatfish.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0090par0193	Come to the potato, come to the mazota. I'm sad that Turkey's agenda, Turkey's politicians, has judged a sector with such informal reviews...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0091par0195	It's an interview for the Turkish Agricultural Society, not ours. GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER -...as a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. I'm glad you're opposed in this way, and that's how people see you. There's no need to say anything else here. People can see you, too.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0092par0198	He sees you, too.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0091par0199	People are alive, people are alive... After you've said it, our people are already considering it. The farmer who went to prison is watching you. Now, here, the import of meat from Serbia has been ordered. Do you know how rude that is? Why shame? GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER - It's a shame. There's a thank-you certificate, it's in the papers.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0093par0206	You imported it, you brought it from the outside. I'll tell you, I'll tell you, look, be patient, I'll tell you. The letter of thanks was in the press. Dear friends, members of parliament, the Sandzak region is where Sandzak Muslims and Turks live, a autonomous area there.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0094par0210	Is there a refuge there, or is it in France, or is it in New Zealand? I'll be right there. You made the bet, get your answer.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0095par0212	Is that where Angus came from, Angus? Where did you import the Angusu from? Did you import from Serbia? GEDA, TRAVEL AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEKER (Secondly) - Only 300 tons of Turkish Red from the Sandzak region...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0096par0214	He's got a thank-you certificate.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0097par0215	Not just Muslims. GIDA took meat from the Muslims in Sandzak, from the Turks in there, from the Bosniaks in Pakistan. That's the thing. Only Muslims are full of Serbs on starboard. A thank-you letter came to us about this. It says: "You have bought meat from Serbs from Serbia. " They come and say it here. What a shame. Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0098par0220	I didn't say Serbs. Don't deflect. Don't deflect. Don't deflect. It doesn't suit you. I didn't say Serbs. This is your nationalism. I said Serbia. GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMED MEHDI EKER - fake nationalism. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Don't deflect. Don't lie!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0099par0226	You import Angus. You import animals in the land of livestock, and you talk. Now, look, the hay imports... you made the leader of the main opposition party say that the other day. Now let me tell you about the hay imports...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0098par0228	Here's the document. Here's his document.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0099par0229	Mr. Secretary, know your place. Look, dear friends, 28.5 million tons of Turkish hay is produced. As of 2012, I'm telling you about imports. Look, I'll tell you what I import.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0098par0231	You're a man who's allergic to nationalism as a word. We're not gonna learn nationalism from you!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0100par0232	Guys, let's hear it. I'll tell you what I'm gonna say. 19 tonnes from Bulgaria, 20 tons from Moldova, 277 tons from the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0101par0235	Let's hear the truth. He's lying, I swear.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0102par0236	He's lying, he's lying! Look, it's all 316.9 tons. Listen carefully. 316 tons. This is Turkish hay imports. 316 tons. Turkey has 28 and a half million tons of production. 316 tons, 277 of this from the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, two trucks from Bulgaria, two from Moldova.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0103par0239	How much did you pay? GEDA, PRIVATE AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER $32,000. For $32,000.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0104par0241	You gave me false information twice in one week. There's one more thing... But tell the truth, Mr. Secretary! It's not over... it's not over...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0105par0245	How much does the hay weigh? I'm going to say one more thing. [[Noises in CHP and MHP rows]] How much is a liter of diesel? GEDA, BEHIND MEHMET MEHDI EKER, BE SAFE. Learn to listen. Look, I've listened to you, so learn to listen. Listen with your grace. (CHP and MHP rows) Listen with your approval. Don't talk like that from there. We'll settle this in court.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0106par0250	You have the courts. That's why you're saying we'll settle in court. As of October 2012, Turkey exported 4,740 tonnes of hay to the Netherlands, Hungary, Lebanon, Iraq, Jordan and Saudi Arabia.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0105par0252	How much is the milk? How much is the diesel? Look, he imported 316 tons, exported 4,740 tons of hay. His import money is $32,000, and his money from exports is $766,749.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0106par0254	You say it differently on the commission, you say it differently on the thing. Now, Turkey is turning around importing hay, and Turkey imports hay. That's what you call it. What a shame! (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) What a shame! What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0105par0256	How much is the straw, how much is it? So this is your idea of the agriculture sector of Turkey? Is this how you will develop Turkey's agricultural sector? You're going to improve with this horizon?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0107par0258	Mr. Secretary, did we say something wrong? You didn't! It's all true. What's true? You're saying it all wrong.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0108par0261	You speak as the most unsuccessful minister of this administration.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0109par0262	You must resign, resign. GEDA, PRIVATE AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER That part's good. This part is politically happy for us, but it's sad for the nation. Now, let me tell you something. They call it "Fransa" (Fransa). Look, dear friends, France last week... it's personal. And I'm sorry to have to say this here.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0110par0265	Mr. Secretary, 10 kilos of potatoes, 1 kilo of hay... I shouldn't have said it, but since you said it, you've brought it up against Turkey, and I'll answer that. Last week, France told the Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Turkey that because of their agricultural achievements, one, two...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0111par0268	For God's sake! How beautiful! It's always like that. Yeah, it works for them, doesn't it? Look, I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. He explained it there. Listen. Two: the process of G20 in Mexico.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0112par0271	If France already praises you, there's something about it.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0111par0272	They love you so much! You finished farming in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0113par0273	Congressmans, please listen carefully. Please... GlDA gave Turkish Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism Mehmet Mehdi Eker a knight's badge in agriculture because of Turkey's constructive decisions regarding world food security at the World Food Safety Summit. [Sounds]
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0114par0275	That's how France gave medals to their grandparents! Now, look, this is success.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0115par0277	You're becoming a knight and you don't know it in Turkey! Now, wait a minute, I'll tell you why it's a success... look, I'll tell you about exports.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0114par0279	Bravo, I applaud you!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0116par0280	Congressmans, please remain calm.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0117par0281	That's the problem. The French praise you, you're French for agriculture! You're French to Turkey!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0118par0282	Gaddafi and Assad gave you a reward!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0116par0283	Please remain calm, lawmakers. Now, wait a minute... They said, "Sir, Turkey is importing more imports than France." Look, that's a shame, that's a lie, too! Look, here's the number. I'll tell you, be patient.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0119par0285	Mr. Secretary, those French were giving medals to their grandparents for capitalization. Listen, listen, listen.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0120par0287	They're not looking at the numbers, Minister. Look at the numbers.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0119par0289	Bravo! The export of Turkey to France is 488 million dollars. Turkey imports $360m from France. Turkey has $128m in net foreign trade, agriculture, surplus to France. And do you know what success was?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0121par0291	Come to live animals, live animals! Now, my dear brothers, France...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0122par0293	Leave France and tell me about the Çukurova farmer, Mr. Secretary. In 2002, your era was the world's fifth largest agricultural economy, the European 1st. But in our reign, the Republic of Turkey has moved ahead of France, becoming the first of Europe, becoming the seventh of the world.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0123par0296	That's a lie. Can you tell me these numbers? France knows that. That's what France calls success. That's what France gives you for. How much support do we have for OECD? Now, I understand your distress. After all, you will be opposed. Oh, and that's when we'll say...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0124par0300	Come to the mazoda, come to the fertilizer, come to the medicine! So let's just say, I don't mean it's the opposition, it's the right place to say it. Is that what we're gonna say? No, I don't mean that. Why don't we give you a medal? Because they're unreal. None of what you're saying is true.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0125par0304	Why don't you go to Çukurova, Mr. Secretary, and they'll give you a reward? All of our numbers are the figures of TİKYK.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0126par0306	Let's go with what you want. We're just saying whatever number we're talking about... A lie, a lie, a lie, a lie, a lie, a lie, a lie, a lie, a This is the source of this figure.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0127par0310	We're saying the same thing. The Turkish Exporters' Assembly is the Turkish Exporters' Assembly, and the OECD is the OECD, and the FAO is the FAO. That's all we're saying.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0126par0312	They're all different.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0128par0313	Your nose has grown, Mr. Secretary, your nose! Now, a brother of ours said, "Sir, to whom did you give these money, these agricultural loans?" My dear brother, 172,000 manufacturers, 172,000 manufacturers who produced the Turkish market, were given interest-free loans.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0126par0315	If you're sincere, give me a list. GIDE, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER - His list is in the records of the Agriculture Bank. All right, let's have a look. The documents are there. All of them are citizens of the Republic of Turkey. Don't run, don't run! GIDE, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEKER (Secondly) -- a citizen of the Republic of Turkey and capable of taking credit from the bank, the Agriculture Bank gives it to him. Look, which one of them... You gave it to everyone but the farmer. There are 28,536 cattlemen, 32,315 cattlemen, 119 milk cattlemen, 145 small breeders...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0129par0324	You've got a long nose. I wish you all the best in the budget, all the best in the world.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0130par0327	Thank you, Mr. Eker.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0131par0328	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0132par0329	Mr. Secretary, you're French on the subject!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0130par0330	Congressmans, wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0133par0331	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0130par0332	If I could have a moment of your time, members of the law, please... Mr. Vicente Gonzalez Loscertales, Secretary General of the Office of International Exhibitions, has arrived. I welcome them on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Applause]] [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2013 Central Management Budget 2) Food, Agriculture and Animal Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The Ministry of Agriculture and Village Affairs Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Agricultural Reform General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account T) TOTINA AND ALCOLPIA PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2013 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2013 Central Management Budget 2) Culture and Tourism Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2013 2) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Turkey's Writing Arts Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 1) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Customs Undersecretary, Central Management Final Account for 2011 [[Continue]] 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Competitive Association's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 Now, please, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0134par0376	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has stated that we've been talking to repeats and non-consequential allegations. There's teasing about it, I want your word.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0135par0377	He didn't mention a name!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0136par0378	Mr. Secretary has given me a different opinion.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0137par0379	Mr. Irony, go ahead and fix it in two minutes, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0138par0380	Fix what?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0137par0381	We'll find out, sir, what he's declared to fix.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0139par0384	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are always trying to answer here, when the Minister is on the stand, with words and numbers. They're real numbers, real numbers! What did we say? What we said was about diesel, so please answer it. GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir), official figures... What did we say? We said about the Agricultural Law, and you took it out in 2006. You owe the farmer 27 billion today. Why aren't you answering these, Mr. Secretary? You're always pulling away. GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir) Credit, Credit! Didn't you import the hay? Didn't you pay $491 million for hay? Guys... GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir) Credit!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0140par0392	There's interest.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0139par0393	What's the interest? You're bragging about banks. To the banks, please... 98% of the loan is being repaid. Mr. Secretary, we're celebrating and following the knight award in France. I say unto the minister: Then let us all be together in Karacabey, in Gemlik, in Niğde, with our farmers. Ask for cotton, ask for olives...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0141par0397	They gave me a reward, too.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0142par0398	We're with them, we're with Karacabey.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0139par0399	Let's ask about the wheat, ask about all of it, and we'll do it together. We're asking by choice. We're talking about banks, Mr. Secretary. He's not going to the bank to invest in farmers. He's going to the bank to pay off farmers. In previous times, their debt, which had 30 million, increased to 39 billion. Is that it?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0143par0402	Have you ever been to Karacabey?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0139par0403	Or at what point is this about...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0144par0404	They pay you, and when the time comes, they pay you right back.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0139par0405	Who's paying?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0144par0406	They're all paying, 98 percent, you don't know!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0139par0407	Let's go together then, my friend.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0144par0408	There's no problem, they're all paying.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0139par0409	Currently in Karacabey villages, 10 or 13 plain villages, 47 people are wanted by the gendarmes. The villagers don't go out for coffee.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0145par0410	Did you go to Karacabey, Karacabey?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0139par0411	Please, about these matters...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0145par0412	Have you ever been there?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0139par0413	Let's go for a ride.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0146par0414	They're all paying for the Farm Bank.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0139par0415	You have no right to deceive the farmer like that. The village seems to be there. Please, let's go for a ride with us, if you can afford it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0147par0418	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Durmaz, let me listen to you. What do you want it for?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0148par0420	Sir, Mr. Secretary has implied that the numbers we're describing do not reflect the truth, that we're judging through abstract events, that we're lying, that we're lying, that we're wrong. I didn't tell a lie.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0147par0422	Here you go. I mean, you didn't say that, but he wants to fix it. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0149par0427	Mr. President, I've expressed in my speech, Mr. Secretary, every time he takes this stand, he flips the numbers, he plays the numbers, but lately he's become the AKP classic, and they flip the citizens. The numbers are real, official figures of the state. You're the one playing! Look, I'll tell you. There are reports here. Mr. Secretary, your undersecretary says 3.7 percent, you say 2.2 percent, the TÜK says: "You haven't reached one percent." Why are you lying? You're lying! [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] It's not true at all! If you have the heart, if you're sincere, let's choose any county, any district, any village, and go together. The farmer believes in you or believes in me! We're in the village every day! You've taken over the courts, and here you are threatening us with the courts. I wrote a letter against you, sentenced to $4,000 in compensation. You confess from here, and your confession is this: we'll give it to the courts, we'll make you pay for it. Do what you want! Let's go! [[(Bravo) The voices, applauding from the MHP rows]] The courts are yours, but the judgment is God's. You ruined the farmer by lying. On every platform you're on, you're fooling the farmer with false information. Today the farmer is in foreclosure and debt clamps, and there are a lot of farmers in prison. What happens if the credits go up? Is it a good thing your loan's up? It's a good thing when a loan goes up into investment, if it turns into investment, but with these loans, it pays interest. How many percentages of them did you insure, the insurance Act? 3%. So, how much of the total agricultural areas did you cover? Four and a half percent. So that's what you brag about, what you say every time you come out. [[(Bravo) The voices, applauding from the MHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, you are the most unsuccessful Minister of Agriculture in the history of the Republic, but you are standing here from the Diyarbakır Convention! I salute the grand jury. [[From the ranks of MHP and CHP, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] You're going to give me the account!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0150par0443	Thank you, Mr. Durmaz. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0151par0447	Mr. President, I have a brief request for the 60th Amendment, sir. Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Secretary is giving out figures on agricultural support from the budget in the text he distributed. However, this year's painting differs greatly from any painting that has ever existed. Support for the agricultural sector from the budget is always measured by the rate of national income, so it's compared. For the first time this year in comparison with 2002, Mr. Secretary has left the proportion of the national income aside, and is not using it. The reason for this seems to be that the 2012 agricultural support payments, not ahead of the 2002 agricultural support payments. The second issue is, aside from the interest spending of the budget, what is the share of agricultural support spending within the remaining interest-free spending, the percentage of this share in 2002 is 2.75 per cent; 2.4 per cent in 2012. Which means he's gone back. And I'd like to end my conversation by adding this. In 2004, the nut maker had a frost disaster. The manufacturer is expected to receive 169 million Turkish liras since 2004 because of this disaster. I asked in the previous budgets. I said, "The state has taken it." Mr. Minister or the government has been defeated. Again, I'm making a very strong claim. I'm waiting for an answer from the Minister: "If the state doesn't get what the citizen, the manufacturer gets, the state pays the debt. " I wonder if the Minister will be able to answer that question.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0152par0451	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Here you are, Mr. Eker. You wanted to explain. GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY SEEMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Dİyarbakir) because of the bullying. Yeah, I know. Here you go. Mr. President, the esteemed members of the High Assembly, a member of opposition parties who had just come out here has insulted and harassed me, claiming that I was lying. Nothing I say is a lie.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0153par0459	That's not true.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0154par0460	What's wrong? There's a source of all the information I'm saying here.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0155par0462	What I'm saying is true. If you look at the agricultural report on Turkey, published by OECD in 2012... I read it right. I read the evening report. That's where you can see the proportion of the resources given to the agricultural sector in Turkey. I read it tonight. Now, these... Your undersecretary says different things, I'm reporting it. This is the House report, Congress. Look, 2.18 percent, that's 2.2 percent round. We never lied to our people.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0156par0470	You always say that.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0155par0471	Why does the undersecretary say 3.7 percent? Our nation has raised our votes in every election for this. You make abstract claims every time, that's how you get in front of people. People do the math, the accounting.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0156par0473	You're not telling the truth. I return to you the promise of the liar.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0155par0475	I'm returning it to you. You're not telling the truth. Here's his document. I didn't say that. You insulted me, I sued you. If I win that case, I'll give the money to the Turkish nation...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0157par0477	Pass out the pepperoni.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0158par0478	I'm going to distribute the Afyon sausage... There's an association in Diyarbakır that deals with autistic children, that deals with their problems, there's the Anti-Otism Association -- and I'll donate it to that association earlier.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0159par0480	Give me your money. I present this to you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0160par0484	Thank you, Mr. Eker. Mr. Hamzacebi, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0161par0488	Mr. President, I'm not going to go back to these questions, he hasn't responded to them, Mr. Secretary, but it would be helpful to explain this number of OECD support. The Minister says: "We have taxed in importing some agricultural products. There is tax, there has been tax. If you import some agricultural products, you pay taxes. This tax is also support for the manufacturer. These are the supports within the OECD number, including 2.2 per cent of the support. Until today, the government didn't use that number. When budget funds went bad, now they're wrapped up in OECD numbers. That's what they're trying to comfort the manufacturer with.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0160par0490	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0162par0491	He's talking about smack sickness there, too, why don't you tell him?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0163par0492	The numbers don't feed you either.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0162par0493	He's talking about the decline of efficiency in the OECD report. Look here, page 109.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0164par0495	We've read it, Mr. Secretary. We've read it. GIDE, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir) page 109.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0165par0497	Now, on behalf of the government, Culture and Tourism Minister Ertugrul Günay will speak.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0164par0499	Yeah, we read it, so we read it. GIDE, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir) Page 109...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0165par0501	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0164par0502	Sir, it's not like that. Let's go to the village.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0165par0503	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0164par0504	Let's go to the village, not to the OECD, but to the village, to the village, to the righteous.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0165par0505	Please be quiet. Now, the Ministry of Culture...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0166par0506	Every time you come to the House, you get mixed up, what's that like?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0165par0507	Congressman, Mr. Eker...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0166par0508	You'll be patient.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0165par0509	Please... now we have Culture and Tourism Minister Ertugrul Günay on the stand.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0166par0510	Minister, you will tolerate opposition, it is shameful.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0165par0511	Now listen to him. We're moving on to a new bet. [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2013 Central Management Budget 2) Food, Agriculture and Animal Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) The Ministry of Agriculture and Village Affairs Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Agricultural Reform General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account T) TOTINA AND ALCOLPIA PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2013 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2013 Central Management Budget 2) Culture and Tourism Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2013 2) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Turkey's Writing Arts Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 1) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) Customs Undersecretary, Central Management Final Account for 2011 [[Continue]] 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Competitive Association's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0167par0550	Mr. President, my dear friends, dear friends of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all with love and respect. In the process of all this budget negotiations, my friends and a group of my friends from the Plan Budget Commission are spending an important shift in Parliament. I'd like to thank my friends who have been able to work hard and discuss matters related to our budget and to talk about them, to read, to speak of their ideas. My dear friends, according to my notes, 11 of my friends -- including a personal speaking friend -- have expressed their opinion on our ministry's budget. Three of my friends have criticised their political positions, perhaps due to some lack of information. Of course, criticism is a natural right, and we always try to take advantage of constructive criticism. But in that short time, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk about a few things first -- before we go into the budget. Just now, here, Mr. Loscertales - Mr. Secretary General of the Office of International Exhibitions - arrived and greeted our Parliament. Turkey has an important goal ahead of it, and we, the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Culture and Tourism, of course, are working with İzmir Governorate, Metropolitan Municipality and all civil and official organisations to achieve this goal because we have put a major project in front of Turkey. In November 2013, Paris will be decided, and last time we lose the race against Milan, hopefully, we will try not to lose this time, and thus, if we successfully leave the race in November 2013, Turkey will be able to introduce a region, a destination, to the world in a very special way. I attended the opening of Shanghai EXPO. Over 50 million visitors came to Shanghai EXPO. If Izmir succeeds in the race of 2020 EXPO, I think we will have a very important opportunity to promote not only for Izmir, but for the Aegean region, even for the whole of Turkey. In this area, we work in a large collaboration beyond all political distinctions. Now, we have another close target in front of us. We stepped up in another assessment there; Eskişehir will begin in 2013, just next year in March, and will become the Turkish World Cultural Capital. The Turkish World Cultural Capital was the capital of Kazakhstan last year. I attended your opening. It's been a cultural year of spectacular spectacles. Starting from March 2013 until November, this time, we will try to make Eskişehir the focus of the entire Turkish world, to make Turkey more known and to introduce it to the world as well as to increase the culture exchange between the Turkish world while developing the tourism, culture infrastructure of Eskişehir. Speaking of the exchange of culture between the Turkish world, I would like to remember an exceptional person today with gratitude and mercy. I barely made it to the eleven o'clock meeting today because there's still a meeting going on at the Bilkent Hotel, with the contribution of Bilkent University. The President of Azerbaijan is President of Azerbaijan -- from 1993 to 2003 -- Mr. Haydar Aliyev, as of yesterday's date, we have realized the 9th year of his arrival in eternity, and today we are organizing a symposium on the development of Azerbaijan and the culture of the Turkish world. If I'm not mistaken by my knowledge of history -- in 1994 when I spoke of this bench -- as a guest of our nation and Parliament -- we are two states, but we are one nation. This word, in a sense, has been implanted in all of our memories as a saying, as a saying. Indeed, we have a goal for the European Union on the one hand, we have a geographically close relationship with the Middle East, but when you enter this deep hope of the history of the Turkish world, we understand very well how we came from the root of a great civilization and a great history, and one of the names that encouraged our understanding to be the most important, and expressed in the most unfavorable way, was Mr. Aliyev. Today, I take this opportunity to remember him once more with mercy. A dear friend of mine also mentioned the suffering we experienced during September 12th. Today's date, I think, is written by the press, is the anniversary of the day when a 17-year-old boy was murdered by those who, in a sense, set up a September 12th trap with no medical examination. Unfortunately, they paid the price for an unfortunate period of our country, a period of ambush, domestic policy, foreign policy, and a period of entrapment from economic policy, poor children who were dragged into artificial distinctions, such as the right-left of this country at that time. I remember them all by asking for God's forgiveness, and I would like to mark from this bench both the creators of the past and those of the coupters, the chivalrous, the instigators, the minions. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear friends, our friends, of course, said some critical things, but I tried to pass you some texts. When you look at the surface of those texts without going too deep, what we've done in recent years, I'm not just responsible for a year, I'm responsible for five years back -- it's clear in these texts. For example, there's a sign on the cover of our budget presentation book, a Chinese sign. This is a four-and-a-half-year-old Iznik tile, a genuine, exceptional Iznik tile, which was stolen from the door of the Yenisa Yenişehir Sinan Pasha Mosque and taken to England. With the zeal of our friends, this and many others like it, we're trying to restore a piece of art that we brought back last week, as we brought back a mosaic that had been taken from Urbana, or a statue from the Antalya Museum, which had been taken from Perge, as our Prime Minister had brought half of it on his plane, or as we had brought back from a museum from the U.S.A. But, sadly, I don't say this with great pride, not in the past years, not in the past decades, not in the decade before us, not in the twenty years before us, but in the past hundred and fifty years, when we know the value of the world's museum, the value of archeology, the value of history, the quantity of its existence under the ground, we have a lot of this stone, so let it take away from us, let it take away from us. Now, if it's based on a decree, on a document, we're still blocked by international legislation to ask for them, because I think the world is yet to be carried out by a law made by Westerners to protect their museums, a more common universal legislation, a more human law. So for now, I say, but if there's anything that isn't based on any other document, that's clearly stolen, whether it's a mosque altar, whether it's a tomb, whether it's left by the Romans, whether it's left by Selcuki, whether it's from the Urartus or from the Ottomans, we're trying to get it all back recently. And I'd also like to say with a little bit of pride that in the past few years, when great prices have been spent on these things, with the help of God, we're trying to bring them into our country, with the help of many of our humble citizens or citizens of the world who may know that our ministry's budget is not too large. Other than that, I have another pamphlet. And on the back page of this book, yes, there's a copy of a document that the World Tourism Organization gave our Ministry for this year because of previous studies. This was a reward in Europe at the beginning of October, as a result of an assessment in Portugal. Tourism agencies around the world have all the official private institutions working in the world in tourism have been rated. It's a universal competition. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism was named the best tourism organisation in Europe. This is a gift which has been given to our people. This is a gift from the Turkish nation and Turkey in the person of our government, my Ministry, and I would like to present it to you with pride, my dear friends. Some of my friends here said that tourism in Turkey grew in numbers, but it didn't grow in quality or wealth. That's not true. Perhaps even richer, more diversified, of course spread to longer seasons, I accept these criticisms, but Turkey only serves poor people around the world. There are no wealthy environments coming to Turkey, no cultured environments coming to Turkey. The claim is not true. Cultured environments are coming to Turkey, where the museums of Turkey have come to the attention of the world in recent years. For example, our Istanbul Archeology Museum, our Gaziantep Zeugma Museum, has also started to receive awards for excellence from internationally important thinking sites, in the Internet, in the digital media. These show that Turkey has been carefully watched by the world and has been correctly evaluated by the world. Now, I'm saying that we're in need of a new method of computing on Turkey's tourism revenues. I said it in the Plan and Budget Commission, and I'd like to repeat it here. It's not my personal opinion, but other public authorities have identified such a need, and starting from January 2013, we will go to these new methods, because so far, Turkey's tourism revenues are being made in a very old way, my dear friends. Four times a year at the border crossings, our young polling companions receive a form and are asked how much did you come to Turkey for? They're just writing down the price they pay for the tour, but other than that, they don't write down the souvenirs they get, the food they eat, drink, travel as an extra pen. We already have information, and TİKİK is complaining about this road, and when the pollers go to cultured or wealthy environments with a slightly high social class, the pollers can't get a response from them, they get information from a group of friends according to their social levels, and the $23 billion that TİKİK finds and explains is the minimum income calculated by account. Our Minister of Finance has said it, and I want to repeat again: there was a net error in the budget pens and 11 billion dollars in the missing share last year, represented by economic executives, whose minimum half is tourism revenue. The current methods do not account for marinas, VIPs or CIP©s. 40 per cent of tourism revenues from international transport companies are being transferred from the rails, although today everyone accepts that these accounts are over 50 per cent. Now, with these new computing methods, we're going to start from 2013, and we're going to do a projection backwards. Turkey's tourism revenues will then appear in official figures, not 25 but around 26, 27, 28. I'm just saying that we need total confidence, and we're not supposed to give in to some black propaganda that's going to cloud our confidence in what we're right. Turkey is a great tourist country. Look, in the 2000s, when we were behind the 15th and the incomes, as we are now arriving, we crossed England, and we are in the sixth place. As a result of their income, we are sometimes shown in the 11th place, because they divide China by 3/3, whereas when you calculate China as one, we are in the 9th place. I mean, as of right now, as well as income, Turkey has entered the top 10 percent of tourism in the world. Now, this is success. Our nation needs success stories. Turkey has a population of over 40 million young people, under 30 years old. These young people... if Turkey is successful in a field, I say we hand it over. Our people need self-confidence, our people need hope in the future. Because the future is based on hope, the future is based on fear, on slander, not on evil, but on hope.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0168par0569	Thank you, Mr. Günay.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0167par0570	The ruling hopes will try to make it real, and the opposition will try to build new hopes, not the fears of society.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0168par0572	Minister of Customs and Trade Hayati Printer... [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Printer.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0169par0575	Mr. President, I have been promised to present to you the works and projects of my Ministry for the future under the budget of the Ministry of Customs and Trade due to the financial budget of 2013. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, in our country where over $3 million of our entrepreneurs produce over $1 trillion in goods and services, nearly $380 billion in foreign trade volumes, 75 million of our people take advantage of goods and services, and there are millions of people, vehicles and products coming out of our borders every year. All of these areas, together with the Ministry of Customs and Trade, we continue our work by producing a very sensitive service. I, in this context, of course, have a lot to say, but I would like to share our projects with you on this occasion. Dear lawmakers, really, the Ministry of Customs and Trade is implementing a lot of new projects in order to carry out their work. I'd like to talk about these: One of these projects is the new, summary statement application, which took effect on 1 January 2012, and our trading expert has saved a tremendous amount of time and cost. I want to remind you of that. Another project is that Turkey is now part of the Common Transit Convention. On 1 December 2012, Turkey was involved and implemented in the joint transit system adopted by member states of the European Union. What is this system? This system, for example, is to provide access to the destination of a truck from London to the destination without needing to make a statement on any customs routes. To ensure that a truck from the province of Konya arrives in London or Paris with a single statement. So when we evaluate this project, when we take into account the cost and time savings, in total, you'll see that our entrepreneurs in Turkey are saving over 100m euros a year. Dear lawmakers, we've launched the approved person status as a project. This is a really important project in customs operations, and our contractors who have the status of a approved person are able to get their products to their markets very quickly by actually doing all customs applications on the blue line, and there are 1,410 people in Turkey who have this status. It's been mentioned here in the talks, and it's been mentioned that it hasn't been implemented yet, and that project is this: it's authorized liability status. This practice is not very common in the world, but when Turkey considers its applications around the world, we will, hopefully, present its authorized mandate to the public with a launch that we will perform in Istanbul this month. Starting on December 27th in Turkey, especially by implementing its authorized mandate, our current traders will have accelerated customs operations by implementing foreign trade transactions, export transactions at their workplaces, factories. Dear lawmakers, we are co-operating with the countries of the world in customs. We've signed administrative aid agreements with 57 countries in the customs area, and 40 of them have passed through parliament and have entered into force. Furthermore, the Silk Road is one of the most important routes when we really consider the world trade, and Turkey continues its annual meetings in 2008 with customs administrations from the countries on Silk Road, and we held the fifth of these meetings in Turkey again this year. The goal of this project is to bring the implementation of customs administrations of countries on this route to the same level, to ensure co-ordination of legislation, to implement implementation integration. Our Kervansaray Project is one of the concrete applications of our lack of work. Another project is to pass the Turkish customs of the Single Window system. What's a Single Window system? It's this: our trade friends know that you have to deal with a lot of public enterprises while passing through customs and goods, and this application is a waste of time. All these procedures will be transmitted from one place, collected from one place, and saved a great deal of time by getting the result from there. We modernized the customs labs. Of course, there is a need for highly technologically equipped labs to do health control and control of the products that Turkey imports. We modernized them, turned them into regional labs, ended this dysfunctional practice that had been scattered in a lot of different places, and we're starting to get more effective results with modern labs. Dear lawmakers, the Trade Act has been implemented. I'll open up the export area a little more. Since the day the Trade Law took effect on 1 July 2012, 80 per cent of the secondary regulations that my Ministry had to issue have been completed, published, several regulations... one of which will be issued by the Council of Ministers, which will be prepared, and will be presented to the Prime Minister next week, hopefully before our deadline is over. Turkish traders, their businesses, their general boards now operate electronically. One of our very important projects in the trade field, one of my fellow speakers here, mentioned that the MERSIS Project had not been implemented. He said, "If he had asked, of course, my friends in my ministry would have given very detailed information about the MERSIS Project. Here's the central record system. The most important part of this will be completed by the end of this year. Trade registrars are going to start to manipulate, process and process all over this system, but this project is very comprehensive, not just the traders, but a project that will include trade institutions, rooms, unions, even building janitorial. And all of this, hopefully, will be over by the end of 2013. But this project has the most important databases in Turkey. The fourth important database project after MERNIS, CDS and TAKBIS projects. Hopefully, we'll have some of that done by the end of this year. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, speaking about co-op, my friend here briefly mentioned that we have prepared the Co-operative Strategy Document and Action Plan. This is one of the unique activities in which Turkey has approved the action plan and strategy document on co-optarianism during a time period in the world, and this year, when the United Nations declared the co-op year. Of course, as part of this project and action, we have important goals, important activities, going on. We put the Hal Law into practice on January 1, 2012.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0170par0591	But there are terrible consequences, Minister.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0169par0592	No. Look, we're redesigning an area where Turkey's most intensively unregistered continued.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0170par0593	True, but there are terrible consequences.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0169par0594	Today's figure is 74 billion euros of fruit and vegetables.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0171par0595	The area is correct, but the arrangement is incomplete.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0169par0596	We've put the Hal Law into effect, there's a malfunction in the status system, that's right. Hopefully, we'll record this area by eliminating the problems that have been transmitted to us in this area by activating the product identity and other devices. Thus, in the event that this happens, both the producer and the consumer and the trader will, of course, serve, maintain, consume, and as a result, our economy will gain power. Dear lawmakers, one of the major areas of our ministry's activities is the protection of consumers. Indeed, as far as this area is concerned, I'm with my friends at the SECNAV, and of course, with the contributions of our universities, we're doing a very important, effective work. We've prepared our design, our draft is being discussed, and hopefully we'll be moving him to Parliament soon. Again, starting on 1 January 2013, we will begin to conduct inspections of the products that we import in terms of consumer health and safety, not just in the market, but also in customs entrances, and we are in such practice. Dear MPs, about our tradesmen and artists, I think there's not much to say to our government here. So when we compared 2002 to today, in 2002, when our tradesman and artist used a total of 557 per cent interest rate of 157 million euros, we put a total of $6.6 billion in interest funds in this year's budget as a total of 5.5 per cent and a total of $6.6 billion in interest support. I thank my friends who have been working on the budget, the Honorable President and members of the Plan and Budget Commission, all the MPs who have contributed with their criticism, their proposals, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0172par0601	Thank you, Mr. Printer. Against Adana MP Muharrem Varlı. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0173par0605	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of myself against the 5th round. On this occasion, I salute you all. I'm speaking not as an opposition MP, but as a person whose heart is burning, as a friend of yours, who's really a farmer, who's a thorn, who can't get what he's reaping, who's working animalism, who's almost at the point of abandonment of animalism. So please don't consider what I'm about to say as an opposition MP, and I'd appreciate it if you'd consider it a person who's expressed the distress of our farmers living in Turkey. Friends, Nasrettin Hodja fell off the roof, let's take him to the doctor. He said, "No, nor the doctor, but bring me one that fell off the roof." Now, I am a man who fell off the roof. And Mr. Secretary doesn't know too much about people who fall off the roof, and because he doesn't see it, the farmers in this country seem to run out of trouble, like they're all out of it, like they've got nothing left, and he's still putting our people to sleep with such good numbers. Mr. Secretary, the farmers of this country still have very big problems, the farmers of this country are now giving up their land. Since our farmers can't find enough support, I have a proposition for you: Come, let's export our farmers to Europe, let's all get rid of America, let's get rid of this country, and let's save the farmer's trouble. See, cotton producers, corn producers, wheat producers, they're all in trouble. You know, I have friends who produce cotton, and there are AKP lawmakers, and we have friends who produce wheat, we have friends who produce corn. I make cotton and make money. Who can say? You're talking about support, what are you giving the support of developed countries around the world? Let's give this farmer the support of the developed countries of the world, the countries of Europe, and see if this farmer is selling cotton to Europe, to America. But right now we're the biggest cotton importer in the world. When we were one of the world's largest cotton-producing countries, we became the world's largest cotton importer. My dear friends, the corn really went below last year's price this year, the wheat went below last year's price, but you're looking at diesel prices, God willing! Do you know that since 2002, gas prices have increased by 400 per cent, 500 per cent? But corn prices didn't even find 50 percent, and wheat prices didn't even find 50 percent. Snow is still at the same level as the 2002 prices. You know, when you talk about it a little bit, when you come in here and talk about numbers, you look back at the past, but the Minister doesn't know that because he didn't fall off the roof. I'm a friend of yours who fell off the roof. Oh, oh, my heart is burning, my heart! We can't get gas, we can't get fertilizer. Let's look at the fertilizer prices, do you know how much they've gone up between 2002 and today's numbers? It was increased by 400 per cent, 500 per cent, but cotton counts in the same place, corn producer sells corn under last year's price, wheat producer sells wheat below last year's price. It's a shame, it's a sin. Have fear of God. They always say, "What are your suggestions? What should we do? Why don't you talk about suggestions? Ha, it doesn't do you much good, but I'll tell you anyway, for the record, in case your horizons open up. Mr. Secretary, you have reset VAT in grain 1 per cent in luxury items, make-up materials, under silver tax. The VAT in the fertilizer is still 18 percent. Let's reset the 18% VAT rate in the fertilizer, contribute to this farmer; that's one. Two, you're talking about developed countries. In developed countries, in the United States and in many countries of Europe, agricultural diesel is between $1.7 and $1.8. Let's reduce the gas you promised us, so that we can add $1.7 to $1.8, to the farmer's contribution. Then see if this farmer's making a profit. You're talking about bonus benefits. Come on, let's get the premiums to the European level, to the American level. Then let's see if our farmer is better than the European farmer, if our farmer is better at making or selling than the American farmer. But you have no intention of doing that. And as you have no intention of doing so, you're still using numbers to deceive and deceive our people. Have fear of God. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0174par0617	Thank you, Mr Varli. Congressmans, we're now moving on to the QA section. It's been 20 minutes, I'm gonna take ten minutes to ask questions. It's limited to a minute. Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0175par0620	I'll ask Mr. Minister of Agriculture. Perhaps it would be more appropriate for me to call the minister in charge of importing products. According to UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Turkey imports beans from China, apricots, garlic, spinach from Italy, nuts from the United States, tangerines from South Africa, grapes from Chile, watermelons from Iran, apples from Italy and Chile. I wanted my Black Sea brother, Malatian and Ighurian citizen, who couldn't find a market for his apricot, who couldn't sell the information that the United Nations gave him, to know that Isparta resident who rotted in the freezer because he couldn't sell his apple. These products, valued lawmakers, are products that we are the first to produce as a country. Instead of considering them and returning our farmer's labor, we're practically importing them to punish them. I want to remind the minister that there's a huge difference between raising his hair to the king and sewing it on top of his head. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0176par0624	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0177par0626	Thank you, Mr. President. My questions to Mr. Minister of Agriculture: Mr. Secretary, I'm the Mughal MP. The olive harvest continues in our area now. Olive oil prices have dropped to 3-4 lira intervals in the manufacturer's hand. The manufacturer can't even find a middleman to collect his product at these prices. Do you have any work on olives and olive oil prices? Is the greenhouse activity in our area agricultural or industrial activity, Mr. Minister of Agriculture? Why is the electricity used by our greenhouses charged with industrial tariffs instead of agricultural tariffs? This year, the manufacturer sold his pomegranate between 15 and 35 cents. Orange prices are now between 30 and 50 cents. The average price of tomatoes in the fall was 25 to 30 cents. These prices don't save production costs. Do you intend to stop this going on? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0178par0631	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Your Highness...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0179par0633	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Mehdi Eker is that the villagers who live in the village of Emiryakup of Tekirdağ Hayrabolu and earn their living in agriculture and livestock have heard that the Hayraboese Milk Makers' Association will bring in a pregnant cow from the United States, and our citizens have also applied for a pregnant cow. To get the animals, they must have borrowed $150,000 from the bank. It was promised to the villagers that the weight of the animals and the amount of milk they would give them would be too much, otherwise they would take the animals back. When the heifers were supposed to be kept in quarantine for 21 days, when the animals started to get sick and die, the quarantine period was handed over to the villagers without waiting. Villagers who died of disease almost every day have asked the county's agricultural director to examine their animals, although the villagers who face some threats are afraid to even seek their rights because of threats. Mr. Secretary, how did the sick heifers from abroad get through customs? Will your ministry make an attempt to eliminate the victims of the villagers in the village of Hayrabolu Emirakup? Will the villagers be given their livestock and money back? How many villagers in Turkey have applied to buy animals through milk companies and become infected with the animal they took?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0180par0637	Thank you, Your Highness. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0181par0639	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of Agriculture is: Mr. Minister, the 28th Amendment of Law 5996 is defined as the basis for the production, import, export and control of supplementary foods and special medical foods. However, food supplements are used to treat obesity with various introductions and there are cases that result in death from time to time, and the diagnosis is conducted only by autopsy. Do you intend to transfer the registration of products called pharmaceutical shapes to the Ministry of Health to prevent this situation? Is there any pressure to stop this era? Why don't you register these products into the drug tracking system? Do you agree that instead of supplying these products from all over the market, it would be better to sell them in pharmacies and collect them? A second question: Mersin agriculture has been severely affected by the negative environment we live in with Syria, and farmers have been victimised, and producer prices have been very low. Do you also consider the construction of the farmers' debts by observing this situation? On November 9, 2012, how much agricultural damage has been detected as a result of the flood in Erdemlı? How much did you help the farmers?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0182par0644	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0183par0646	Thank you, Mr. President. So my question to the Minister of Agriculture is: you set up TARGEL to develop agriculture, and you made it clear that the staff here will work in the villages. There are 87 TARGEL personnel in Kastamon. Although there is no official assignment, most of them are in the district centers. These personnel go to county deployment by order of transport. Is this approach correct? Some of the TARGEL staff took part in the 2011 appointments, some of which were not staffed by the day, and are under contract. Do you plan to employ contract workers? Last year, 3,000 farmers registered in the farmers' registering system at the city centre petitioned for a loan postponement due to the incident in Kastamonu. While reports in some of our counties have been kept as grain, all products in some counties and districts have been affected by the 'don'. More than 500 percent of our farmers' feed plant support has been cut down by 30 per cent and 40 per cent due to reports. The farmer's wrong...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0184par0651	Thank you, Mr. Chanar. Mr. Insolent...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0185par0653	Thank you, Mr. President. The lifeblood of Turkey's agriculture must be restored to agriculture and animalism, which is about to die as a result of false policies in the region of Çukurova. Do you plan to specialise in plant and animal production in the Adana and Çukurova region and apply new policies that prioritize investment production? Mr. Secretary, I just got a call from the President of Urbana LLP. Harran, Akchakale and Siverek are watching with the farmers, and when they followed you, they told me to pass on their troubles. In 2009 and 2010, the support offered in Urbana is demanded back with interest. The farmers don't have a chance to pay for it at all, they're very victimized, so how do you feel about that? Again, what time do you intend to pay for the support of 27,000 farmers, including Urbane, who have not been paid, the farmer's victim? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0186par0658	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0187par0660	I'd like to ask Mr. Minister of Agriculture that our olives and olive oil producers, as well as regions, have seen the increase in input costs, lack of support premiums, and the market conditions, that the producer's labor has not been compensated. For example, 2010-2011-2012 was a very difficult year for scholarship olive producers. At Gemlik, Iznik and Orhangazi, in 2010, a portion of the damage to the disaster was still not paid. Mr. Secretary, when are you going to pay? My second question: when will the TARGEL assignments be made, and at what rates will they be taken? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0188par0663	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0189par0665	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is Mr. Mehdi Ekere. In recent years, in Turkey, Minister, I've been wondering if you've contributed to a rapid industrialization process, and while the OSBs are being organized, while they're being organized, in industrial areas. In fact, I wonder why the Ergene Basin of Thrace is a first-class agricultural land in Turkey, but you have influenced the agriculture of the region by building the Corporateville, Malkara, OSBs in Çoçeköy, Malkara, while creating the first-class farmland in Turkey; is this region suitable for agriculture, Gebze, Sakarya, again in Gediz Plain, looking for nickels in the Rye, where I wonder if you're expressing an idea that this region is efficient, that you are the Minister of Agriculture and Animalism, while you're doing the planning? My second question is: we know that the Gebze Organised Industrial Zone is being released into the creeks, just below the small industry, without decontamination. In this region, in the last period, the residents of Kirazpinar neighborhood lost 8-10 cattle. About that...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0190par0669	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Star...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0191par0671	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you said the nut exports provided $1 billion,800 million in foreign currency in the last year and sold on the free market. We're selling it for $5.40 this year, and there's going to be about $1 billion, 200 million in foreign currency entry that we sold at $8 last year. How will you afford the loss of $600 million in currency, the loss of the state, the loss of the nation? How are you going to take responsibility for that on your conscience? Since you don't support the nut... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0192par0676	Thank you. One moment, I promise Mr. Janibari. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri. Finally.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0193par0680	Thank you, Mr. President. Justice is giving everyone credit. First, I want to thank Minister of Culture and Tourism Gunay. For his efforts to restore historical artifacts that were stolen from our country. Mr. Secretary, what is the number of lawsuits against historical artifacts that have been looted from Turkey and smuggled abroad? What's the amount of expenses to retrieve the stolen artifacts? Is there an inventory of writing in Turkey? Are there copies or digitization studies of writing? Is there any activity to translate writing from Ottoman Turkish to Turkish? And since the Minister of Agriculture is talking about nationalism, I'd like to tell him what it means to be an agricultural nationalist. It's called nationalism, Mr. Secretary, not to give away the rights of the Turkish peasant, animal farmer and farmer to foreign villagers and farmers. (Applause from MHP rows) You have made history as a minister importing hay in Turkey's country of animals, fruit country of Turkey, agriculture country of Turkey, no questions asked. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0194par0685	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Yes, now, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Eker, the most questions are for you... and then I'll give it to you for a little while, Mr. Günay. After you, please. All right, thank you. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have now been claimed to have quit farming in Turkey, where the farmland is no longer functioning. Of course, dear friends, that's not true, the fact is that it's true that those who have very small parcels in Turkey, because of the extreme division of agricultural land, are atomicized, no longer able to operate economically. This is a problem, Turkey's problem, and this problem has been a growing problem since the Civil Law in 1926. Now, we've taken precautions, some of these measures are being implemented, and our government has taken them. And in the future, if you're really suffering from this, and you want this to be fixed, you'll support it when we bring the bill here, and with your support, we'll solve this problem of Turkey. Thus, in Turkey, it can actually be used, it can be planted, but it is not operated, it will be able to be processed because it is now very small pieces of land that are not operated. After starting with cotton about imports, our friends of ours had some opinions, statements about other products. Now, dear friends, Turkey produces 98,000 tonnes of silk in 2002, imports 549 thousand tons, exports 79,000 tons, and textile exports based on cotton are $4.5 billion. Now we'll know. Now, when it's said like this all at once, people who don't know the subject can actually see it in a very different way. I assume my friends are asking in good faith again, so I take it, and I'm bringing an explanation for it. In 2011, Turkey produced 1 million tonnes of silk cotton, which was more than 2002; its imports increased to 612,000 tonnes; its exports increased to 60,000 tonnes; but Turkey's textile exports based on cotton increased from $4.5 billion to $11 billion. Now, Turkey needs textiles, textile exports, textile raw materials. Turkey is not able to increase it in the same way as all other products in parallel with all these needs because Turkey's area is clear. In Turkey's field, eventually, corn grows in the same area, cotton grows, sunflower grows, wheat grows. Therefore, unless the amount of waterable areas of Turkey is increased, there will surely be a difference in one of them. Turkey produced 2.2 million tonnes of corn in 2002, producing 4.6 million tonnes of corn today, so some of the field naturally went there. The world's prices are being monitored, followed, and the manufacturer is making the choice of products, the choice of planting, and the assessment of this world's prices. So, you know, Pamuk's dead, it's not enough. It's not like that. Turkey is producing cotton again, but on one condition, textile exports are so big that all the raw materials that will pay for all of this are not made in Turkey, they import some of it. The second thing is, look, in cotton, the support that we actually give is a very important support, so we're paying a significant part of the operating cost as support in cotton production. Now, dear friends, the third issue is that Turkey's imports have been mentioned. Look, I just told you the story about the nut, so 40 tons is coming back from the border because it's not a home plate. The nuts that Turkey exports, we consider them imports here. Well, that's not true. Now, I'll tell you about other products: Turkey's imports and exports of agricultural products. See, Turkey is a net importer, blah, blah, that's not true, guys. Raw matter... look, I'm going to tell you about the pens, and you guys should consider it that way. 409 million dollars in raw leather and fur. This appears to be in agriculture.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0195par0699	Come to the questions, Mr. Secretary. GEDA, AIR AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Dyarbakır) uses raw rubber... in the agricultural sector? No, he uses tire industry. Turkey used to make rubbers, and now it's giving up? No. He's been importing Turkish rubber ever since. $1 billion, $650 million, which looks like agriculture. Mr. Secretary, answer these questions. Come to the questions, come to the questions. Turkey's industry grew, friends, industry. When its industry grows, when its economy grows, Turkey has to import these raw materials because Turkey doesn't produce raw rubbers. Now, mushrooms, wood and timber are 605 million dollars. Mr. Secretary, if we could just get to the questions...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0196par0705	Mr. Eker, I have to give the last three minutes to Mr. Günay, but... how are we going to do all the questions?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0197par0706	That's what he does, Mr. President, he always does. He talks, he talks, he ends up with a deadline.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0198par0707	There are two other ministers. Mr. President, I'm responding. Yeah, so I'm answering. A lot of questions were asked.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0199par0709	Go ahead, go ahead. But we still have to use our time. GEDA, PRIVATE AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir) ▪ Paper dough and used paper for 603 million dollars. Tissue fibers and leftovers are $3.3 billion. Now, $6.6 billion of Turkey's agricultural imports are raw materials that I count. In turn, Turkey is a net exporter of more than $3.5 billion in food and other agricultural products. Turkey is not dependent on food; it feeds 75 million people; it feeds 31-32 million tourists; it exports $15.4 billion in food products. But these raw materials have to give these for exports, for raw materials used by the industry and for the Turkish industry. So that's the part about importing agriculture, exporting.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0200par0711	Tell us the current deficit in agriculture, and we'll accept it. Dear friends, about the nuts, our friend, 600 million dollars in damage... friend, there is no such thing.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0201par0713	How much for the milk? Look, Turkey's production was 430,000 tonnes in 2011 and 660,000 tonnes in 2012.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0202par0715	It's God's will, but as a government, we need to check it out. We sold the nut for $8 last year. Now, we've paid the nut-based support, field-based support for three years, averaged 700 million dollars a year. And for the next three years, it's the same rate every year, and for 2013, 2014 -- for 2012, 2014 -- we're continuing to pay nut manufacturers for field-based support, which gives more than $1 per kilogram. None of this used to exist. Mr. Secretary, we're selling the nut we sold for $5.40 last year. $600 million loss of state, loss of manufacturer.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0203par0718	Mr. Secretary, what happened to the disaster? Mr. Secretary, we've asked about the peanut disaster, the nut disaster. Mr. President, may I continue?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0204par0720	Mr. Eker, please... There's something Ilhan Bey said about olive oil. In the third week of the range of olive oil premiums, there will be a total price of $30 million in olive oil. As of the end of the year, we will pay direct support to over $7.5 billion in agricultural sectors. Our other supports are more than $7.5 billion, according to what OECD, etc., -- according to international criteria -- from Turkey's national budget to the farmer in cash, 9 billion Turkish dollars in the budget we're predicting next year. But there are no other subsidies, subsidies, price support, et cetera. So, when we take that into account, which is support, because it's coming out of the treasure.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0205par0722	I asked about the olive disaster in Orhangazi. So you can't say they're not support, they don't exist. That's what we're saying. That's all there is to it.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0204par0724	Thank you, Mr. Eker. I will answer other questions in writing. Okay, time's up. Now...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0206par0728	Mr. Secretary, you didn't say you were getting nuts, you said you'd get them.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0204par0729	Congressmans, please calm down. Two minutes, Mr. Günay, I promise you, and I'll give you two minutes, Mr. Printer. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0207par0732	Mr. President, thank you very much. I humbly thank Mr. Janibari for his kind thanks. In our time, more than 3,500 things have returned to Turkey, when I had been in charge since 2007. Between 2003 and 2007, it is less than 1,000, about 800, and in the previous decade, it is still less than 1,000. I mean, we've brought more than we've had in five years, over the past 15 years, to our country, thanks to a variety of spiritual aid that I've just said, but we've almost never paid for them as a serious pen, so we haven't hired a special lawyer, we haven't filed a special case, we're trying to get the diplomatic resources that Turkey has, and we're trying to get them back to our country with care and determination. We don't have a new case, so we don't have any new expenses, but there have been high-paying cases in the past few years, and we've been watching them very carefully, but we still have a lot of work to do in the country, and that's number one. Second: We try to increase the physics of writing by expanding the library of Solomonia, by taking out the delivery house -- by including Darashhifa into the Library of Solomonia, by converting the Great Ragip Pasha Library into Writing Arts, but of course we have to do more about writing. We've been through the digital environment a lot, we've got cataloging work, and we're really accelerating them, and in 2013, we're going to record huge distances in writing about inventory, cataloging, and digital recording. I'd also like to mention one point in the remaining amount of time, if you'll excuse me. During general questions, a dear friend of mine, Mr. Önder, said that a theatre community was punished for playing Gogol in İzmir. I'd get a court order. There's no mention of any theater in the court order. A street show, a show on the street, was punished for encouraging a group of young people not to go to the military and for provoking them for five months.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0208par0737	Because they play theater in the street?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0207par0738	In the mansion, in the street, in the public place, in the public place... they've been punished, here's the court order; the theatre, Gogol, the play doesn't run a single line, see, here's the official document.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0209par0739	You can play in the street.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0208par0740	Because they're playing theater.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0207par0741	Sir? The court doesn't say it's because they're playing the theatre, it's because they're using slogans.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0210par0742	Minister, there is a concept called the street theater.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0207par0743	I know that, brother! I mean, the theater is also played on the street, but not because of the theater, but because of the propaganda they did there, and the court postponed the sentence. The court has not released this sentence...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0210par0744	They put on a play, and they got punished for it.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0207par0745	...decided to postpone the sentence. I'd like to bring this to your attention. Thank you, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0211par0747	Mr. Secretary, don't do this. A world classic is translated from Gogol, and the court is punishing him.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0207par0748	It's not about the game.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0212par0749	Thank you, Mr. Günay. Here you go, Mr. Printer.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0213par0751	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, of course, may not have been able to raise questions from the microphone, but the question they've given me is, what are you going to do about bail? In this regard, work is being conducted in my ministry concerning the resolution of this issue, and we share it with the Justice Department. I think we'll settle this with a proper arrangement before we leave for too long. And lastly, I'd like to point out that we have absolutely no such arrangement for smuggling, especially the burden of evidence. In order to activate the struggle, we have a draft with a change in Smuggling Act 4458, 5607 and Oil Law 5015. We'll probably present it to the Council of Ministers on Monday, then it'll come to the House. I thank you, too.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit02spe0214par0754	Thank you, Mr. Printer. The negotiations are complete. Now, I'm going to have you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the fifth round, respectively. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting will now move to the section of the central management budget in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 30) GEDA, AGREEMENT AND ANIMALITY 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2013 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 126,397,650 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.500,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 12:827.363.030 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Environmental Protection Services 1,850.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 102,042,750 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 43,178,220 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 11.898,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 13.116.229.650 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting in 2011, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Food, Agriculture and Animal Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 2.258,188,624,00 - Budget Expenses: 2.212,491,713,95 - The grant goes to 1,027,908,36. - Canceled allowance: 46,724,818,41 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2011. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Agriculture and Villages' final account of central management in 2011 will be transferred to the chapters: those who don't accept... those who don't. 3) Agriculture and Village Affairs Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 7.449.601.191.00 - Budget Expenses 7.447.002.315.86 - It costs $49,860,97. - Canceled allowance: 2.648,736,11 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the Ministry of Agriculture and Village Affairs were adopted in 2011. I submit to your votes that the Departments of the Central Management Account of 2011 of Agriculture Reform, those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 4) Agriculture Reform General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 234.189.275.00 - Budget Expenses: 234.047.999.55 - Canceled allowance: 141,275,45 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The General Directorate of Agriculture Reform was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency will take part in the central management budget in 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.09) STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2013 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 18.655,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 45,965,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 64,620.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 57,020,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3,400,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Savings 4,200,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 64,620.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. I submit to your votes that the tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency's final account of central management in 2011 will be transferred to its chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2011 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 54.292,000.00 - Budget Expenses 51,741,643,96 - Canceled allowance: 2.550.356.04 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): C E T V E L [[TL]] - Budget revenue estimate: 50.592,000.00 - Net Collection 51,741,643,96 - Ret and Returns: 118,878,92 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2011. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism, I would like to submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2013... Those who don't... Sustained. 21) CULITOR AND TURISM LOOK 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2013 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 443,574.240 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 1.148,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 12.611.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 457,141,350 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 42,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 937,217,410 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 1,851,734,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism adopted parts of the central management budget in 2013. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism in 2011, I would like to submit to your votes that the final account of central management should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Culture and Tourism Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance : 1,684,812,282.08 - Budget Expenses: 1,495,819,456,37 - Canceled allowance: 188,992.825,71 - Payment transferred to the following year: 142.613.140.59 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism was adopted in 2011 as part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of State Opera and Ballet will take part in the 2013 central management budget: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.16) THE DEVLET OPERA AND THE BALL OF GOVERNMENT 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 20,200,800 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,352,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 717,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 189,615.200 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 211.885,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 4,100,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 207,320,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 465,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 211.885,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The General Directorate of State Opera and Ballet was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. I submit to your votes that the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate of 2011 will take part in the final account of central management: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 174.787.817.00 - Budget Expenses: 172.037.176.17 - Canceled allowance: 2,750,640,83 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): C E T V E L [[TL]] - Budget revenue estimate: 166,770,000.00 - Net Collection: 175,078,603,04 - Denied and returned 900.00 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The State Opera and Ballet General Directorate of 2011 has been adopted into parts of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of State Theatres will be transferred to the central management budget in 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.15) GOVERNMENT PRODUCTION 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 22,002,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.450,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 149,242,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 173.695,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 8.109,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 165,511,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 75,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 173.695,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The General Directorate of State Theatres was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. I submit to your votes that the State Theatre General Directorate of 2011 will be transferred to the chapters of its central management account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Final Account for 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 146,743.000.00 - Budget Expenses: 143,685,972.08 - Canceled allowance: 3.057,027,92 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): C E T V E L [[TL]] - Budget revenue forecast: 136,761000.00 - Net Collection: 140,567,987,16 - Refuge and Returns: 20.268.00 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The General Directorate of State Theatres was adopted in 2011 as part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the chairman of the Turkish Writers' budget for central management in 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.53) THE PRESIDENT OF THE ENGLISH SUMMER 1) Turkey's Writing Arts Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 3.557,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.302,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 14.128,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 18.987,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 15,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 18,884,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 88,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 18.987,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of Turkey's Writers was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. The Ministry of Customs and Trade has voted to take part in the central management budget in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 31) GROUP AND TRAVEL LOOK 1) The Ministry of Customs and Trade Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 432,074,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 5.500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 45,385,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 33.764.150 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 511,228,650 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Customs and Trade was adopted in 2013 as part of the central management budget. The Ministry of Customs and Trade for Central Management in 2011, I submit to your votes that the final account be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 170.017.690.00 - Budget Expenses 137,746,689.09 - Canceled allowance: 32.271.000,91 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Customs and Trade was adopted in 2011 as part of the final account of central management. Undersecretary of Customs in 2011, I submit to your votes for the division of the central management account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Customs Undersecretary, Central Management Account for 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 209,253,899,50 - Budget Expenses: 209,558,295,43 - Compromise Expenses: 408,379,49 - Canceled allowance: 103,983,56 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. Undersecretary of Customs in 2011, parts of the central administration's final account have been accepted: I'd like to submit to your votes that the competition agency will take part in the central management budget in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 42.07) RICOBET PRODUCTION 1) Central Management Budget of the Competitive Association [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 34,201,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 23.19,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 57,400,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 818,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 56,582,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 57,400,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The competition was adopted in 2013 as part of the central management budget. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Government account of 2011 will be transferred to its chapters: those in favor of... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Competitive Association's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 56,599.00 - Budget Expenses 44.993.787.88 - Canceled allowance: 11.605,212,12 I'm going to read the final account (B): C E T V E L [[TL]] - Budget revenue estimate: 45,700,000.00 - Net Collection: 46,130,046,13 - Ret and returns: 570.676.86 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The Competitive Association was adopted into parts of its central account in 2011. So it was adopted by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Agriculture, the Ministry of Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the General Directorate of State Opera and Ballet, the General Directorate of State Theatres, the Ministry of Customs and Trade and Competitive Management budgets of 2013, and the final accounts of central management budgets of the Central Administration of the Ministry of Writers of Turkey and the Ministry of Agriculture and Villages, the General Directorate of Agriculture Reform and Customs in 2011. I wish him well. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0214par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 39th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin the sixth round of the Central Management Budget Bill in 2013 and the 2011 Central Management Computation Computation Bill. The sixth round includes the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, the General Directorate of Roads, Information Technologies and Communication, the General Directorate of Civil Aviation, the Ministry of Interior, the Security General Directorate, the Police General Command, the Coast Guard Command budget and a final account of the Maritime Undersecretary. [[Continue]] 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) General Directorate of Highways 2013 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Highways 2011 Central Management Terms 1) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Undersecretary of Maritime, Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Police General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Police General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Gendarme General Command Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget 2013 2) Coast Guard Command Final Account for Central Management 2011 The commission and the government are in place. Members of parliament, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour can enter the system. In the sixth round, I'm reading the names of the members who took the lead on their behalf: On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Samsun MP İhsan Calcutta, Bursa MP Kemal Ekcici, İzmir MP Erdal Aksunger, Gaziantep MP Ali Serindağ, Kırklareli MP Mehmet Siam Kesimoğlu, İzmir MP Musa Çam, İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer; Erzincan MP Sebahattin Karakelle, Çorum MP Cahit Bağcı, Kayseri MP Yaşar Karayel, Tokat MP Dil Aş, Kars MP Ahmet Arslan, Denizli MP Nihatpcı, Zobek Akaklı MP, Oğların Özsın Özsın MP, Obaçı MP Sebahatcan Karakelle, Çım MP İşım Karaklı MP İştım Önder, İstanbul MP İş, İstanbul MP İştı MP İştıtıtıtı MP İş, İstanbul MP İş, İstanbul MP Ahmet Karaklı, İstanbul MP İş, İstanbul MP İç, İstanbul MP İşı MP İğı MP İğı MP İğrı MP İştın, İstanbul MP İştı MP İç, İstanbul MP İsımı MP İçlı, İstanbul MP İş, İstanbul MP İş, İstanbul MP İşımımı MP MP MP MP MP MP MP MP MP MP MP. On behalf of him, Izmir MP Aydın Şengül; on behalf of Osmaniye MP Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Samsun MP Ihsan Kalkavan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Kalkavan.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0215par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party regarding the budget of the Transport Maritime and Communications Ministry in 2013, and on behalf of my group and person, I salute you all. And as a member of a marine family, I'd like to begin with the problems of the naval sector that began and continued with the 2008 crisis. Given the support and incentives given to their shipyards by the European Union and Far East countries for shipbuilding and financing, the country has found that financial support for the ship's operating industry is not enough, that Turkish shipyards have been operating below 15 per cent of their current capacity and that there should be up to 30,000 people lost their jobs in the last three years. The definition of a 19 per cent premium system in the product-based incentive of Turkish shipyards to encourage shipbuilding will help the naval sector to improve the development of the Kosster fleet and to address the problems of providing new shipbuilding orders to the credit guarantee fund system, support for a qualified ship industry in the European Union. We support your goal that our ports become a logistical center, not just the focus of the reserve, but it's not prideful of you to say that our shipyards are on the verge of bankruptcy in this environment where 52 new shipyards are in the design phase. It's just an insult to the workers who were taken out of the shut-down shipyard. Foreign ship-orderers who consider ordering ships in Turkey should be financed for the ten-to- fifteen-year term of running ships, whose likes are being implemented in Korea, China, Japan, Germany, the Netherlands and Spain. In order to guarantee loans here and reduce risk loads by Eximbank, such means as Norway or Sweden must be established. The credit package content and collateral rates applied to the sector must also be reviewed. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers don't look so good in shipping. The Turkish flagships' share in the transport of Turkish foreign trade cargo in 2011 was 17%, while its 2012 share was reduced to 14%. The Turkish sea trade fleet, once dominated by Koster-type ships in the Mediterranean, now has 256 ships between 1,500 and 7500 dwt. Their 31 is between 10 and 19 years old, and their 183 is over 20 years old. In Turkey's European Union integration process, these ships will have no competition with other countries' ships. Therefore, between 1,500 and 12,000 dwt new ships must be built and the Turkish Kosster fleet must be renovated and resuscitate Kosster transport. The measures necessary to prevent a foreign flag must be taken at once. In 2006, under the Undersecretary of Maritime, the Kabotaj Transport Field Study Project must be carried out immediately, and investments specified in the final report must be carried out. Free health fees from shipping alone must be removed, reduced to the price of lanterns, and the Recipe for Guidance, Römoraj and Other Services, which were implemented on 1 January 2011, must be re-prepared with the views of the Sea Chamber of Commerce. In order to prevent Turkish armators from crossing into a foreign flag, high GSK revenues blocking their work in the market should be reduced with competitive navlun. Otherwise, for the past five years, the number of foreign flagships carrying cargo to Turkish ports will increase rapidly, and for the past four or five years, Turkish flagships, such as Sandkapi, Salatkapi, Tuzla, Eagle, Samsun, Amasra, will be sold slowly to scrap their ports. The crisis continues in the naval sector, where I share problems and solution proposals with you. The naval sector must be taken among private sectors with special significance; if not, the shipyards and armators will be destroyed in the first place. Support must be provided with immediate incentives and bank loans. During budget talks with the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications on 19/11/2012, our Minister Burili Yıldırım has not made a single statement regarding the problems of the naval sector. Only the congressman answered our friends' questions about sailing. From what we've seen from the press, we expect our Minister to be more interested in the problems of this sector, and we want to believe that his son is also doing business in the naval sector, and that he will bring more convincing solutions. In the meantime, I'd like to talk to you about something. You're going on a fast train. Why don't you take regular railroad paths, even though we've told you so many times? For example, building a Poti, Batum, Tripoli, Samsun railways will reduce accidents on land roads as well as reduce the concentration of passenger and cargo on land roads, adding value to the country's trade. With your investments in high-speed trains and roads, you're melting shipping under the umbrella of these two investments by accepting a stepchild, Mr. Secretary. Mr. President, my esteemed lawmakers, the only way to save the naval sector is by an autonomous Maritime Ministry, which is run by the people who are in possession of shipping, shipping, yacht tourism, water products and fishing, shipbuilding industry. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's when we're not a naval nation, but a marine nation, a marine country. I wish you all the best in the budget.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0216par0062	Thank you, Mr. Kalkavan. Bursa MP Kemal Ekinci. Here you go, Mr. Sower.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0217par0066	Mr. President, I salute the great Parliament in your presence. It is a very distinguished institution with a history of sixty-two years; it has its properties, its own principles; it has done important services so far. I ask all those who have worked for the agency in sixty-two years for the mercy of all those who have died, for the health of those who are alive, and for the convenience of their employees. From time to time, the highways have been cut off and degenerated by the direction of politics, but its own principles have caused it to get out of that degeneration quickly. It's very likely that politics will, of course, have an impact on an investor organization, but this event, with its principle, with its own strategy, with the establishment of highways and with the strategy of highways, is easy to produce, and politics has not interfered much with a building that produces. Dear friends, not only does public opinion or politics have expectations for the Highways; they have their own employees first, those employees need expectations. He's been complaining lately. I'm having trouble with my reputation. This politics, this cult, must quickly get away from the congregation's work; one. Two, it is imperative that a change in wages for road workers, for those who serve at a technical level. Otherwise, you'll have trouble keeping qualified professionals there. Another thing is the custom of the highways, the spirit of road travel. Social solidarity between highway personnel needs to be formed. These are all our expectations for employees and servants. Not to make it once, but it's not likely to travel right on the road that's been done in maintenance lately, because there's not enough tonage control on the highways or on the divided roads. There's an amazing deformation in the right lanes. And the way to get ahead of that is either to determine the capacity or to make the thickness of the road trunk affordable to the carrier. In the summer months, the General Manager of the Highways had a saying for the repair of the Bosphorus Bridge, that the Istanbulians should go on a journey. They said, "I ignored him, perhaps he used him for another purpose." If the road is to use, use, and use transportation correctly, you can't function by taking people on vacation. You can't handle it by tendering my care. You can't do maintenance without your own trained staff, without an institutionalized staff. And what we'd like to ask Mr. Secretary to do quickly is to build a machine park like this on the highways, where technology is superior to technology. If there's a type of machine... the workshops are out, the highways are having trouble with it, I know. In these abandoned workshops, the type of machines, machines with technological properties, would be much easier for the highways if they were used. Now, another thing is that the Highways have a serious educational policy on raising these guys, but that's not enough with the training within the institution. My particular request is, if they can, if they can work in co-ordination with universities, if a school on road travel opens up at a college level, it will be necessary for the next time. Well, the thing is, in the next time -- you'll see -- the municipalities will need it. Within the scope of the entire city, municipalities will need extensive road construction. We, as an institution, have to recruit them as well. Dear friends, another thing I've criticised is that the highways are quickly passing on their assets. I'm asking the Minister: One, I'm curious as to the nature of the age of the land of the highways on Kavacık. Secondly, the era of the district manager's building on the highways of Minoria is about to take place. And I don't know why. Another thing is about the route detection. For some reason, some hawks know where to cross that route before anyone else does, and speculators are closing the plot. I think it would be best if there was an investigation into those who interfered, whether they were in or out, politically or technically. Despite all of this, the amount the highways receive on the console is very small; it is unlikely to perform transport service with this share. Hopefully, some other time, I'd like to say that more shares will be cut out of the consolidated budget over the next time, and with that budget, I'd like to make it easy for the General Manager and the employees who are going to fulfill their hope, and I'd like to give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0218par0079	Thank you, Mr. Sower. İzmir MP Erdal Aksunger. Here you go, Mr. Aksinger.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0219par0083	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the budget of the esteemed MPs, the Information Technologies and Communications Agency and the General Directorate of Civil Aviation. I salute all my friends of the Court and the congressman with love and respect. Dear Minister, according to these latest reports, it may or may not be the next local elections, but I don't know, it looks like you're going to quit the Ministry. Before you go, I think the best thing you can do is to encourage the establishment of an IT ministry. Because as far as I'm concerned, there's no one in the Cabinet who knows better than you do. But if you tell the Minister next to you, you know better than I do that the attempts on the Ankara Security Directorate in these Redhack cases are not a crime. If you tell them, let them not consume these children in vain, nor let them judge in their midst for nine months or ten months. Sir, of course, I've known you since the past, but I'd like to express a lot of regret about something. Didn't you object to the privatisation of this Turkish TELEKOM, and you went out and they didn't listen to you? Something I'm very curious about. Between 2003 and 2011, Turkey's TELEKOM made $24 billion, over 80 billion. You've privatized an institution that holds the country's infrastructure, holds its communications, holds communications, and writes its name in front of it -- but not Turkey. Yeah, can't you think of a question like that? Why don't you privatize this TRT? What's wrong with this TRT? With 8,000 employees, you don't privatize an institution that makes most of the work he does out there. In fact, I don't understand: In the old days, TRT used to be the trumpeter of governments. Where there are so many private channels, I don't think TRT can whistle, let alone trumpet. Why isn't this place privatized, a place like this, a very important, strategic place like Turkish TELEKOM, being privatized? And how is it privatized? $1.5 billion in advance, privatized for $6.5 billion. And in total, the profit in these nine years is $24 billion. If you go outside and think about all the loans that the private sector or the public needs from the world, we'll all know what a big problem that is. I'd like to tell you in particular something about the BTK, which has been a big part of the press lately. I called Mr. BTK's president and told him what dangers the country is actually looking forward to. In particular, I told him that an outside company from abroad had been listening online in Turkey. It's been three weeks, and he's never once turned around and said, "This is what we've done about it." He told me he was investigating. What if something like this needs an investigation? There's no need for that. Mr. BTK's Mr. Typhoon is a friend who knows all the issues I think he's as smart as I do. I mean, that's the way I see it, I know it. Don't you think in a month you'll be able to come back and say something about what's going to be understood in two days? Look, this is a very important matter. Turkey is being bugged, watched. In fact, you should have told the Constitution of this matter what kind of assurance you would normally have to go to. You're not even on this side of it. Is that supposed to happen? In addition, after privatising Turkish TELEKOM, Turkey is doing the same thing as TRT. TRT buys $1 billion, which is an old coin, and buys 1 quadrillion on electricity bills, and buys it with a bandrolle. This bandrol has somehow returned to a standard. And everybody thinks that now, so it's gonna be Brandon. Why should I, brother? What kind of band would that be to keep TRT alive? Every TV you import, audio recorder, you put bandrol on it, and this one, it's about to meet the TRT's budget. And that's not enough, you take this money from the citizen over the electricity bills and transfer it to the TRT. So, what happens is, after you privatized Turkish TELEKOM, did you cheapen the Internet inside? We're almost using the world's most expensive Internet. See, in South Korea, they're using the Internet at 10 times the speed of the Internet we use today at 1 third of the price of Turkey. Why is this happening? And the middleman, you know, all the Internet service providers are already condemned to Turkish TELECOM. Well, they're part of the pattern. He thinks no one's ever... they've objected before, but they've looked at it, and nothing's going to happen because it's behind state lines. Well, now they've shut you down so we don't have to be bad with the government. Well, it doesn't open up to competition. The guys just talked about the competition. Yeah, nobody talks about Turkish TELEKOM in a non-competitive environment. Oh, so that could happen? It's officially a citizen's extortion. It's not just citizens, it's the other kind of lineages, it's the earlier turnovers, all of them, all of the people in the private sector. I'm running out of time, and I'd like to say a few things about civilian aviation, which I'm not very interested in, but I do know one thing, because I saw it in İzmir. In terms of the development of this sector, I've seen one at the university of applied sciences that will provide the need for interpersonal staff. Awesome, 400 students will graduate in the first stage, while 90 percent of these children will be hired by private companies in Turkey and companies abroad at the end of the first year. But there's one thing they're missing, and I think it's a lot to take in. Civil aviation universities should be opened, encouraged, but not just taught. A year, I think, before, he should have a foreign language education, two years of vocational school, and then a year of teaching, I think, should be about teaching. Of course, the foreign language will not be Arabic, if possible, in English. I believe that's an important issue, too. On this occasion, I would like the budget to be a blessing in general. I salute all of you with love.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0220par0094	Thank you, Mr. Aksinger. Gaziantep MP Ali Serindağ. Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0221par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party, I have made a pledge on the Ministry of Interior budget and the Coast Guard Command budget. I salute the honored members of the High Council. I wish success, health, and peace to all personnel of the Ministry and its organizations. Mr. President, the Coast Guard Command is a law enforcement agency in the Ministry of Interior. Its roots go back to the Ottoman era. With Law 2962, it has also become what it is today. It depends on the Ministry of Interior, as I just said, it's a security unit, and in case of flight, it's included in the Navy Command. It has all the duties of security units, and it has that command in its own areas of duty. Mr. President, I'd like to draw your attention to the following tours. The round before noon discussed the budget of the three ministries. Groups over the budget of the three ministries have been given a time-share period. About 13 minutes per budget, the groups were able to make a commitment. Now, can you imagine... what's the budget? The budget is a document that gives us an idea of what the annual activities of an institution or state will be like. So it's a document that lays down rules on how to spend revenues and how to spend them. However, each ministry budget was reserved for only 13 minutes. What does that mean, Mr. Lawmakers? It shows that Parliament has failed to carry out its mission. Which means the Parliament has been defunctioned. It shows that Parliament is considered a formality. Let's make this Parliament more functional, make Parliament a better law enforcement and control activity. Dear lawmakers, that is why AKP has insisted on the presidential system. Just a few days ago, or rather a few days ago, media has been involved in what the Justice and Development Party proposed to the Constitutional Compromise Commission about the presidential system. See what is involved in these suggestions, the presidential system proposed by the AKP (AKP): The president will not be held accountable to the House. There will be no question of the council asking the president questions, no questions, no vote of confidence. The president will choose his cabinet from outside Parliament, and the ministers will have immunity. High-ranking government officials will be appointed by the president without the approval of the House. Look, I'll point out that the president will be able to issue a law enforcement decree at any time, and these decrees will not be subject to the control of the House. The president will be able to terminate Parliament as he sees fit. Yes, this is the presidential system the Justice and Development Party has proposed. As they say, it's the advice of the dervishe. Dear friends, the AKP does not want to see Parliament. Now, let's take a look at the US presidential system. Is there any chance that the president can call off Congress whenever he wants? Absolutely... is the president there able to direct Parliament, Congress, any way he pleases? Is the president able to appoint high-ranking public officials as he wishes? See, years ago, Obama wanted to appoint an ambassador to Turkey when he was first elected, and the ambassador he appointed was not approved by the Senate Foreign Relations Commission, and the president could not appoint that ambassador to Turkey. Until when? Until Congress takes a vacation. My dear friends, I wanted to bring this to your attention. Why? Because it's clear what kind of Turkey the ruling party wants to see. Let's take care of Parliament. Let's turn Turkey's Great National Assembly into a place where the people's will, the nation's will, exemplifies it. Members of parliament are a ministry with an important function in community and state life, the Ministry of the Interior, which is a deep part of the public administration structure. Missions to the ministry are being carried out within the county system by the staff of the governor, the governor, the trustee and the members of the organisation. It is in common for all of us to carry out our duties in full neutrality and in accordance with the definition of duty. Of course, the biggest task falls to the Minister and to the top executives in the centre, and to the governors in the country. The high-ranking executives and governors' duties, not according to conventional political winds, but in accordance with justice and legislation, are of great importance to the peace of the country, for the public's well-being, but I must regret to say that in recent years, the authorities that I have stated have chosen to act in accordance with the Constitution and the law, rather than to act in accordance with Mr. Minister's illegal and even under criminal orders. The most recent example of this is the current procedure for our people who want to participate in Republic Day celebrations. I also want to draw your attention to this -- the government expressed that national holidays should be celebrated in different ways, not in stadiums, but in the streets and in public participation, and said that they were going to change regulations for this. But what happened in the end, what happened in the end? People who wanted to celebrate Republic Day on the street were asked to be prevented by pepper spray and other means of intervention. We're supposed to celebrate national holidays on the street and with the public participation? Wasn't it? Isn't that the reason for the change in regulations? Or were you trying to prevent our children from attending the April 23rd ceremony under that name? Or were you trying to prevent May 19th ceremonies from being celebrated by our young people? Even though your regulations have predicted this, or rather you have given such an excuse, why did you want to prevent our citizens from participating in the October 29th Republic Day celebration events? Since when is celebrating Republic Day a crime, Mr. Secretary? Despite all obstacles, our people celebrated Republic Day with great enthusiasm, despite barricades, and then went to the spiritual presence of the Great Ataturk. No one has ever been able to prevent it, and no one will ever be able to. Mr. Secretary has committed a constitutional offense, and unfortunately, he has made public officials a party to his crime. We all need to know that a criminal order is not to be carried out in any way. Public officials who carry out a criminal order cannot be relieved of responsibility. Look, I'm giving you an example: A university professor in İzmir has been sentenced to freedom-binding punishment for not taking a student to class on grounds of the dress code at the time. My dear friends, I remind all of you that if you turn and turn, the day will come. Don't let anyone forget that. Members of parliament, the Ministry of Interior has very well-grown personnel, but the Ministry of Interior and the Minister of the Interior do not consider these personnel enough. Likat, driver's license, experience, and savings are not important in assignments and higher tasks. Despite the presence of several experienced property managers and other staff members in the ministry headquarters and rural, particularly the Property Control Board, they are not evaluated, they are considered close to this or that in the evaluation of personnel. Experienced personnel have been pushed aside. The savings, experience of the governors assigned to the centre are not being used. Mr. Secretary has grown up in this ministry. Mr. Secretary is a man who knows the ministry, or rather, someone who should know. These things must be considered. Mr. Secretary, custody control over local governments is also carried out by the Ministry of Interior on behalf of the state. The Home Office, unfortunately, is abusing this control authority. A terrible pressure is imposed on opposition municipalities, and CHP municipalities in particular are trying to be taken under clamps, trying to be discredited. Whatever you do, our citizens, our citizens will do as they please. Despite all the criminal complaints and your denials, Kayseri Metropolitan City City has not been sent to the property inspector, and you've been very persistent about it. Is there something you're hiding, Mr. Secretary? Why don't you give me a preliminary review of the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, Mr. President? I've asked you that for several times. If that is not the case, tell me that the property inspectors did not make such a request. An iron pile from Ankara Metropolitan Municipality on the way to Eskişehir was not asked to account for the rainbow, which caused major public damage. Look, Mr. Secretary is sitting next to you. The Ministry of Transport has had to take over three subway lines in Ankara. Ask the Minister next to you, please find out from Mr. Secretary and do as you please.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0222par0122	You ask, we'll see.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0221par0123	Mr. Secretary, as I said in the first place, the Ministry of Interior's biggest task, its most important task, is to ensure security and peace in the country, but unfortunately, there are serious security problems in our country. Every day, people's hearts burn with news of martyrdom. Our people have been separated, led to their camps. The government has been unable to maintain the safety of lives and property. I'm giving you an example: Finally, judges and prosecutors have gone to the path of individual arms to protect themselves. Would that be a serious state? Does this suit a serious state, Mr. Secretary? A state that can't protect its judge, its prosecutor, can it be a serious state? It's a sad situation. See, in four years, between 2008 and 2012, 27,000 children were lost, 62,000 children committed crimes. There has been increased injustice, poverty, bans and corruption. Unfortunately, the government is creating artificial agendas to seek a solution to the situation in the country. By not adding the Court's reports that should be added to the Budget Law, the budget will be... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you've made the legitimacy of the budget debatable and you've put the country in this position.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0223par0128	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0221par0129	I wish the budget to be good for our country, for our nation, and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0223par0132	Mehmet Siam Kesimoglu, Cırklareli MP. Here you are, Mr. Kesimoglu.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0224par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Police General Directorate. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. Dear MPs, today is December 13, 2012. The whole of Turkey is locked in the Silivri. There is a trial of our MPs, our intellectuals, our scientists, and members of the Turkish Armed Forces who have dedicated their lives to fighting terrorism. The public is there, but there's always the usual usual footage of pepper spray, baton, pressure water, police indiscriminate use of force... Who are those who are being tried there as prisoners? There are Ataturkers, Republicans, intellectuals, moderns, those or those members of the party, or rather, those who oppose the AKP. So, how do they stand trial? There are those who have been tried as prisoners for five years. And on what grounds are they being tried? Now, they're being judged with documents that our language can't get to say "detail." They're on trial for the secret testimony of the terrorist organization's name number two. In democratic countries, in fact, this is the government's reason for resigning, but when it comes to the power of the era of the AKP, it is viewed as a matter that has nothing to do with it. Tens of thousands are in Silivri today. We're there with our heart. The hearts of millions are there. From here, I salute Silivri, from this bench. (CHEERING) I'd like to express that we are waiting to meet in freedom for the people of Silivri. And I truly believe that we will meet in freedom, but I would like to express once again my faith in the people who put this painting in front of this country, that we will deal with it sooner or later. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There's a team at the Police Department, where we're discussing its budget, who's involved in this case. I don't want to call it evidence. I said it because it's been proven in many cases that what was presented there was made by a certain department of law enforcement. You'll remember, it all started in a penthouse in Umraniye. Look, I'd like to quote you from a voice analysis by TUBITAK. The two cops are talking amongst themselves: ▪ Is the crime scene report written on the computer? I'm calling the crime scene report, it can be written on the computer. ▪ Mm-hmm. You say you'll be fine. Okay? ▪ Write now, then. You know how you say, "It's on the typewriter, it's on the computer"? ▪ Should we write by hand? The man says, "Where does his computer come from at the crime scene?" ▪ It is written manually at the scene of the crime. OK, let's write it this way. ▪ But this is what is thought of. The note could have been taken there somehow, written here. Moving on... This audio recording was made at the police station in Umraniye, recording the video. We share an example of the analysis of TÜBITAK. What do we see here? We see how the crime scene report on the grenades found in Umraniye was kept by relevant police. The TUBITAK Report is from 2010. It's been two years. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary right now, what have you done with the police officers who have been holding these irregular and illegal reports? I'll tell you, Mr. Secretary, you haven't started any investigations.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0225par0157	He promoted me.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0224par0158	Yeah, he promoted me. Mr. Secretary, the scandals at the ministry's office that you're in charge of, of course, don't stop with that. 51, including former Chief of Staff, has been cited as evidence for the arrest of several defendants on trial. The dvd was able to copy it safely before it was captured. I'll point out that even before it was passed on, it was even able to be duplicated even after it was broken. What did you do about copying a DVD that didn't exist, Mr. Secretary, did you start an investigation? Of course you didn't. We learned from Wikileaks that the police were briefing the U.S. embassy, and you didn't do anything about it. We learned from the book of Ergin Saygun, that the police established a unit in 2009 to monitor the General Staff's correspondence. Is this unit still on duty, Mr. Secretary? Have you launched an investigation into these irregular, unfair, inappropriate briefings? Mr. Secretary, of course, there's no way to explain this in seven minutes, but your law enforcement, your department, they want to hear some good things from you about their rights. What did you do about it? I'll tell you, you didn't do anything again. You didn't improve your rights. You promised the cops you'd fix their financial situation, but you broke your promise. When the lawkeepers retire, their salaries are cut in half, but their needs are not cut in half, they continue the same way. You didn't solve the indicator problems, but you didn't stop what you didn't do to the people who wanted to be organized. You've opened investigations for commentators on social media. You've put all kinds of pressure on cops who want to start a union, including threats, investigations, and you're doing it. Mr. Secretary, forming a union is a constitutional right. Unlawful is not union, but your limitations and pressures. The Prime Minister made some comparisons in the budget. So I looked at the numbers to make a comparison between 2002 and 2012 on the matter of theft, fraud and so on, but unfortunately, an application has been implemented that there are no numbers that can compare. The fact that the AKP has taken refuge in the statistics. Last words: Dear MPs, is there nothing good going on in Turkey? There is. On this special day when the prosecutor read the indictment on December 13th, I would like to share with you a good news report that concerns all of Turkey very closely. Would you look at what they're going to do: see each other in all the buildings, look around visually and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...a level of illumination that allows for natural behavior, windows allow for equal dispersion of light, sound levels will be minimal, air-conditioning fans will make the lowest volume, those with significant health problems will be treated immediately.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0226par0166	Thank you, Mr. Kesimoglu.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0224par0167	But do you know who all these possibilities are for? For the animals on the farm, especially the chickens. Mr. Secretary, you're a follower of an understanding that doesn't give people 1 percent of the value given to animals.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0226par0169	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0224par0170	But know that at the first change of government, you will sit not there, but in the back, and you will take your head between your hands, and you will say, "Oh, I wish! With all due respect, I wish you a good budget.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0226par0173	Izmir MP Musa Çam. Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0227par0176	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I have made a pledge on the budget of the Ministry of Interior and Gendarme General Command in 2013. On behalf of my party, the Republican People's Party and myself, I salute you all. We wish the officers who serve day and night from crime to crime prevention, from internal security to property and safety, from trafficking, from traffic to border security to Republican People's Party. 78 per cent of our country's total population is in the police area of duty and responsibility, while 22 per cent remain in the area of the gendarmes. At the same time, 87 per cent of our country's facial measurement is located in the responsibilities area of the gendarmes. As of today, there are 209,748 people in the General Command of the Gendarmes and 255,590 in the Security Directorate. In the ten-year period of AKP's rule, 104,246 police were taken, and in the next year 12,440 police officers would be employed, among the information we received from Ministry studies. The rule of law must be a priority when offering public safety services. If the balance between the concept of security and the concept of law and human rights is broken, we will face the social events we face all the time. Students who want free education, workers who want a strike, collective contract union law, civil workers who demand a collective contract union law in the ILO standards, pensioners who want a human pension, farmers who want their labor for their crops, mothers who want to be killed, mothers who cry! In short, you have to respect the right to try to understand, to understand, to understand, and to understand, people who are reacting. This is one of the essentials of our democracy. You can't stand it. You're using violence and disproportionate force because these people don't act in a way that you like. You're not Democrats, you're torturers. Mr. Secretary, valued MPs, there are serious problems and problems in the intervention of law enforcement in social affairs. The most vivid of this was that on October 9th, a mile from here, on Akay Street, my friends and other lawmakers, former President of DİSK, Süleyman Çelebi and HARB-İS former President and Ankara MP Izzet Cetin. The workers, the workers, the strikers and the collective contract union wanted to come here to deliver their rights to Parliament. And we, the three members of the union, went in solidarity with them. Despite the fact that there were three law enforcement officers on all police radios in that area, law enforcement came to me, they put pepper spray in my eyes, friends, but there was no action on these security forces that sprayed pepper spray, and we haven't even heard a statement from Mr. Secretary. Again, on October 29th, thousands of people came to Annitbabir to celebrate our republic with their elders, with their children, with their children, with their children, with their children, with their women, with their daughters, with their veterans, with their property, with their children, but thousands of people were sprayed with pepper spray and water. There was a Kerbela there, my friends. This is the order of what the AKP is calling democracy, and our gas is organic, and there is no harm, and the Home Minister is sitting here. If an interior minister says his gas is organic, and some law enforcement gets the courage to do it... but the Minister's there, he's laughing, he's laughing. That's what we're seeing, that's the picture, guys. (CHEERING) It's not possible to accept that. According to the owner of the horse, it's a quiche. According to the owner of the horse, it's a quiche. Well, if that's what the owner's doing, then the horse's got it in for him, fellas. Now, dear friends, governors... on October 29th, in different parts of Turkey, people took buses from their pockets, they wanted to come here, friends. With his instructions, governors, police chiefs, trustees tied the buses with water grounds and didn't take them on the expedition, my friends. Right now, in Turkey -- a lot of them -- I can say it in silence, but many governors, governors and police chiefs, as if you're criticizing the one-party period -- they're like party presidents.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0228par0182	Worse than that... then people had a conscience.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0227par0183	Where does he get the courage? He's taking courage from the Home Secretary. Dear friends, today in our country, we're dealing with wiretap scandals involving the names of law enforcement officers. Even though it's illegal, there are documents that have been served to citizens of the law, to the press. There are some very serious allegations that a congregation is being held in safety, especially in the intelligence department, and they are being spoken of. We read about it in various newspapers every day that members of the congregation act like states within the state. My dear friends, in many ongoing investigations in our country today, people are asked to first be declared guilty and to prove their innocence by the accused. That is what is happening today in Silivri. Mustafa Balbay and his friends, who have been under arrest for 1,379 days, are there today to pay for this. The trial of Sociologist Pınar Selek (Sekek), who has been on trial since 1999, continues there as well. In short, it continues as a conspiracy within the state. Dear friends, it's not possible to go on like this. We know how hard and difficult the carabinieri work, and we know how difficult and difficult the police work. In front of these, there is no obstacle to trade unionisations within the framework of the ILO standards, the European Union acquistor, and Article 90 of the Constitution. We said, in the 1970s, we all looked more affectionately at the gendarme for the trouble and persecution that we had experienced in the police during our student years, and when we saw the gendarme, we sang this anthem: [[İzmir MP Musa Çam read the following text in the march form]] If you only knew. Maybe one day you'll get to know him. Take a bullet in your village. He says.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0229par0200	Thank you, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0227par0201	A year ago, children were bombed and killed from the age of nine to 19 on orders given by the Minister and Prime Minister in Uludere. Their blood trails and fingerprints remain on the foreheads of the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary, friends.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0229par0203	Thank you, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0227par0204	He wishes to bring us all peace, freedom and democracy in 2013, a world free of war, with respect to all of you, to celebrate your new year.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0230par0206	Mr. President, please maintain the level of the House.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0229par0207	I mean, this is the first time we've heard the General Assembly sing. That's not gonna happen, but...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0230par0208	We'd better maintain the level.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0229par0209	Erzincan MP Sebahattin Karakelle on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Karakelle.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0231par0212	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications in 2013. I salute your high council. I bear in charity the founders of our republic, who have built the motherland with iron nets, who see the matter of transportation as a matter of civilization and the primary goal of development, but regretfully, it must be determined that the founders of independent Turkey have left a paper, a goal, a principle, a legacy they left behind for future generations, for many years, unclaimed, neglected. Now, you'll appreciate that we're going through a period where every aspect of transportation and communication is broken by heart, and epics are written. The hills will disappear and we'll be on our way. We meet in the endless day. Like the love of Farhad, the mountains have been pierced, and the slopes have been lost, and the waters have been struck. The secret of this success is to make the stars firewood day and night. As a result of this understanding, the amount of investment our Ministry has made in the past decade is 140 billion Turkish dollars, along with the construction-business-state projects. In this process, huge projects have been implemented that will change Turkey's face, add value to the international arena. This tunnel will embrace the Black Sea and the Caucasus, the foundation of the Ovit Tunnel, which has been dreamed of since the Ottomans. Within ten years, our 74 provinces on the roads are interconnected in divided ways. We've divided ways, but we've united hearts, lives. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the work is not limited to land-road investment, the republic's establishment is starting to have its own home iron nets all over again for the second time. Between 1951 and 2003, over a period of over half a century, there were 945km of railways, while in a ten-year period 1,086km new railways were built, and the railways continued to build 3.434km. Ankara-Eskişehir and Ankara-Konya have launched high-speed railway lines; Ankara-Istanbul, Ankara-Sivas, Sivas-Erzincan, Ankara-Izmir, Ankara-Bursa projects continue. In 1860, the Marmaray Project, which was drafted and imagined, was also given to the AK PARTI power. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, in the past, air carriers have been left to the monopoly of a group of people and have been granted the privilege of a class. Today, developments in the airway industry have almost given Turkey wings. In air travel, state monopoly has been abandoned, and the government's airline has been allowed to compete in order to improve the quality of the free market in a competitive environment. Today, our number of active airports has been increased from 26 to 48. From where to where. Now by seven airlines, we have 16 million people who have met airplanes from 7 centers to 49 destinations, the airway, the public road. Turkey, a sea country, and the Turkish nation, a marine nation, have regained its identity with the power of the EC PARTY. In the IT industry, distances are obvious. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, who are not the prisoners of the bureaucracy, who reflect their own dynamism to the entire staff, are not welcome. I offer thanks on behalf of my own and the people of our nation, the minister of our service, the man of our heart, the minister of our nation, the man of our heart, the man of our nature, the man of our nation, and the saint of our nation. I pray to God that our Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications in 2013's budget is good luck and good luck, and I salute your great delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0232par0226	Thank you, Mr. Karakelle. Corum MP Cahit Bağcı. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Bonder.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0233par0230	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group regarding the budget of 2013 and the final account of 2011, the budget of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications. As I begin my words, I salute you. Precious friends are a strategic sector with many important social and economic benefits, including village-city integration, cultural unity, balanced population distribution, by creating infrastructure for sectors such as transport and communication, industry, agriculture, tourism. A functioning transport and communication system also has a feature that eliminates regional imbalance with a balanced distribution of social resources, lowering costs, providing economic development and competitiveness. Serious distances have been taken in our country's transport networks, thanks to emergency Action Plan, government programmes and sectoral strategies, which have been established since 2002, when EC PARTY governments took over. The ministry's budget offer in 2013 was $19 billion, 182m, and about 8.5 billion of its money was earmarked for investments. Given the budgets of ministry-based organisations, the share for 35 billion and investments is also close to 14.5 billion. Dear lawmakers, the length of the divided road, which was 6,100km in 2003, reached 22.100 km, our highway length today is 2.236 km, our number of active airports from 26 to 48, while airline traffic, 34.5 million passengers in 2003, increased by 243 per cent to 118 million. A clear target has also been set in the 61st Government Programme to speed up railway investments. In this framework, studies are being carried out for building a 3,434km railway. There is no doubt that future railway investments will contribute to the competitiveness of our provinces and the growth of our economy. Dear MPs, I'd like to bring to your attention some of the issues included in the Turkish Parliament's report, The Local Dynamics in Regional Development, dated August 2012, about the request for the railway of both our province and the Black Sea region. The most important opportunity in this report is to access Russia's market via Samsun and not have a railway connection as a weak direction. The export growth rate in the manufacturing sector of our country is also higher than the Turkish average. Our province has emerged as a new industrial focus in our country because of its development based on internal factors, such as self-source, local enterprise, flexible production properties and relationships, solidarity, trust and organisation capacity. The majority is a province with a unique industrial capacity by organizing its savings and entrepreneurial power. In 2011, traffic volume data included 4 million vehicles on the Ankara route, 2 million on the Samsun line, and about 1 million on the Amasian line. There are 11,500 vehicles daily on the Ankara line and 5,650 vehicles on the Samsun line. Half of this is for cargo and half for passenger transport. According to data from 2011, the Stock Trade and Industry Chamber transfers nearly 15 million tonnes of cargo from our province to domestic markets and ports for export purposes. In addition to traffic, there are about 2.8 million populations in our region, given the population criteria. Avanproje studies in Sinop, the Army, Giresun, Tripoli, Amassia counties are completed by the DLH to meet the need for a railway, and implementation projects are expected to be discussed in the investment programme in 2013. The only obstacle to the development of the stock industry is the iron pathway to its jump. In this framework, I would like to submit to the attention of our General Assembly and Ministry the request for the railroad to contribute to the capture of our country's 2023 targets. As I put an end to my words, I wish the ministry's budget to be good for our country, for our nation, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0234par0240	Thank you, Mr. Bonder. Kayseri MP Yasar Karayel... Here you go, Mr. Karayel.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0235par0244	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of our Highway General Directorate in 2013. On behalf of myself and my group, I salute you. From the day it was founded, our highways are one of our important institutions that has served Turkey so much. Our entire nation sees the services of highways both through and through. The road is civilization. We have been serving our nation for ten years as the EC PARTY to bring this civilization to Turkey. It's not your place you can't go. It's your motto. Our highways have left no untraceable destinations in Turkey. In the EC PARTY administration, Turkey has run out of destinations for transport within ten years. I'd like to thank everyone who's passed the job. When we look at the roads, we have a network of 65,435 kilometers in our country. This path serves as a highway for 2.236 kilometers of our network. The 522km was made during the AK PARTY rule period. The most important part of the highway projects is the 421km long Gulf Pass, Project Gebze-Izmir. By the time this project is finished, Turkey will have achieved a great deal of access. This is expected to be completed in five years. Another important highway project is the North Marmara Highway Project, which will include the third bridge in Istanbul. When this project is finished, it will cost about 6 billion dollars. The Kınalı-Tekirdağ-Kanakkale-Balayesir Highway Project, Niğde-Ankara, Ankara-Samsun, Ankara-Izmir highway projects are among our destinations for 2023. About 32,000 kilometers of our roads are state-run, while 31,000 km of our roads are county standard. 22,000 kilometers of these roads were divided and completed during the period of the ruling period of 6,100km, while 16,103km was completed during the AK PARTI rule. Our six pre-2003 provinces were linked in divided ways, while today our 74 provinces became connected. In these ways, 90 percent of our domestic road transport is made. In all, 182 million tonnes of domestic land transport are also passed through our routes. This transport in our country is run by around 430,000 K-certified transport companies. As our paths are made, the mountains are not made from the hills, but dozens of tunnels and mountains reach the plains. A two - mile [3 km] Bolu Tunnel was built in 17 years, and between 2003 and 2012, it also built a 103km tunnel. Looking at the length of the 49.6km tunnel earlier, a 200 per cent increase will be seen by everyone. When we ask, "Where are these tunnels?," we can count them as the tunnels of Iğdır, Bolu, Balzant, Pozant, Tatvan Kuzgunkeran, Hopa Cankurtaran, Ispi Ovit, Manisa Soapcubeli, Ilgaz, Kop, Kahramanmarash Puren, and Malatya Eğek. These will be completed in two years. Honourable lawmakers have been presented to the service of our nation in the last ten years with 1,239 bridges and viaducts 84km long. In our country in the earthquake belt, 125 important art structures, particularly the Istanbul Bosphorus Bridge, and the seismic supplements of the viyat are being made, while 141 additives continue. These are the roads used by 16 million 826 thousand registered vehicles in our country. The 910 accidents in our country have been severe and the black site has been re-examined and the accidents have been avoided. So far, divided roads on the east-west axis have been shifted to the north-south axis, and the north-south axis has been completed by 8,700km. By the time our network is finished, the Mediterranean will be closer to the Black Sea, thus shortening the distances. Our goal is Turkey's 70000km divided on its 100th anniversary. And as the AK PARTY government, we've already put that among our goals. In addition to the construction of our new roads, our Ministry of Transport continues to work to improve the quality of our existing roads as a BSK. All our routes around Kayseri are 6. The highways are made by our Regional Directorate, which costs 750 trillion liras and is made by the BSK. I thank our ministers, especially our Prime Minister, and the General Directorate of the Highways, and all the people on the Highways, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0236par0256	Thank you, Mr. Karayel. Slap Congressman Dilek Yüksel. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Yüksel.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0237par0260	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Council of Information Technologies and Communications. On this occasion, I salute you all. Mr. President, the sector of information and communication technologies -- which, according to 2011, are 40 billion dollars -- is expected to reach the size of $44 billion by the end of 2012 -- is a locomotive in addition to its direct contribution to our economy, increasing efficiency in other sectors. Established in 2000 by the Ministry of Information Technologies and Communication, Turkey's first sector regulator, the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications has now made it possible for our citizens to access high-speed fiber internet services at appropriate prices in our country, with the development of third-generation mobile telecommunications services, becoming an indispensable part of our mobile internet daily life, with a period of approximately 299 minutes per month, which was quite expensive seven or eight years ago, Turkey's mobile phone service has become the leader of Europe. Mr. President, we are predicting new breakthroughs in this area in the coming process as state-sponsored IT projects continue, which will increase the level of prosperity as a country, increase the rate of IT-reading, sustain our development and increase the number of broadband subscribers, such as the FATIH Project. As part of their 2023 target, we plan to see the IT market reach 160 billion dollars in size, with high-speed broadband infrastructure in each house, and our broadband subscriber numbers reach 60 million. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are working with the strength we have taken from our nation to get our country to its 2023 goals in communication, transportation, and in all areas, as the power of the EC PARTI, and we are moving Turkey to the point where it can compete with the world. Our ministry's road is civilization. We all share the happiness of its understanding of how it connects our country from east to west, north to south, with iron nets, with fast trains to meet our country, the airways to make the path of the people the way of the people, the way of the nation. In this context, the 1st stage of the Army-Tokat road tender was held on November 30th, which connects the East Black Sea to the Mediterranean, the 40-year dream of our Tokat and our people in the region. Hopefully, the work will begin as soon as possible and it will be completed again as soon as possible. Again, tomorrow, December 14th will be the opening of our Minister of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications, the 32-year imaginary circuit road that has been procrastinated and postponed ahead of our rule. I wish him well in our province and in our region. Our ministry's work continues for our slap airport. I'd like to thank Mr. Prime Minister, our government, our Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications Mr. Bakil Thunderbolt, his team, and everyone who's done what they've done, especially the Tokat and the Tokats, who have made the dream of our region and our Tokat come true. As a government, we use our people's sweat, labor, and resources for our nation again, to serve 75 million of our people. We take our nation's goals, their dreams, and we turn them into reality, and we say: "He dreamed it, he came true." As I end my words, I wish our country the best budget of 2013, and on behalf of my AK PARTY group, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0238par0273	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel. Kars MP Ahmet Arslan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0239par0277	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget of the Civil Aeronautics General Directorate in 2013. I salute you all. Of course, the aviation industry, the speed, the confidence, security, and even at the same time, has recently been involved in economicism with the AK PARTY governments, which is important in the transportation sector. Aviation is an essential sector, especially in an environment where global economics or the globalized world lifts borders. This sector, which is competing with the EC PARTY governments, has been removed from the Turkish Airlines monopoly, many airlines have also been established, but Turkish Airlines has also grown, and this sector can reach its goals in the world's 2015s, even after 2015. Today, the number of planes that were 160 rose to 372, increasing more than two floors. Seat capacity has increased by 137 per cent, from 27,600 puts it up to 65 thousand. The cargo capacity has increased more than that. About 100,000 jobs have been created in the last decade, and 151,000 people have been employed in this sector. This sector has contributed around 30 billion Turkish liras to the economy. Again, the Civil Aviation General Directorate has been able to express itself in Europe in particular with its audits. International agreements included an agreement with 81 countries, while the aviation agreement was raised to 141. Again, depending on the development of the aviation and civil aviation sector in Turkey in particular, Turkey has now become not only an actor but a rule maker. He has taken over many tasks such as the head of the D-8 Civil Aviation Commission, the Vice President of ECAC, EUROCONTROL, the Vice President of the Interim Council Co-ordination Committee, the Vice President of the EUROCONTROL SRC Security Commission, the vice president of the JAA-TO, the Vice President of the ICAO, the Vice President of the North Atlantic Regional Aeronautics Security Group of Europe, and thus, he has now become the player in this sector, making rules and directing the industry. Again, with SAFA/SANA audits, Turkey, in particular, has become an example of a value that is far below the 0.97 in Europe with a score of 0.62 points. However, the civilian aviation sector in particular puts the number of aircraft ahead of its major goals in 2023: it aims to increase the number of planes to 750, increase the passenger capacity to 386 million, and increase the number of passengers to 350 million per year. But we know that inter-integration is very, very important in transport. If you're taking a railroad, not just the airport, but where you're taking the airport, if you're making the standard of your landway much higher, if you can reach ports and reach the sea, you'll get much better efficiency in the transportation sector. So, from that point of view, that's what my city, Kars, gets. The aviation industry dazzles with its 3,000/45-high track and its new terminal. In addition, the Baku-Tiflis-Kars Iron Road Project continues to work as the pride of our country. Again, the Kars-Igdir-Nahschivan railway is planned and carried out in parallel with this country to go to Nahçivan, Iran, perhaps Islamabad. High-speed trains are the pride of all of us, and we're aware of that, and it's also in the investment programme about building a logistical center in the three-way, meaning the railroad. The ministry and the General Directorate of the Railways continue to work in that sense. The hot asphalt of divided roads continues all over the Kars. I gave the example of Kars, and I'm sure you'll take this sample and multiply it by 81. Turkey has its share all over it. I thank our governments, our Minister and his team very, very much. I wish you good luck on the budget, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0240par0292	Thank you, Mr. lion. Denizli MP Nihat Zeybekci. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Zeybekci.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0241par0296	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have taken a pledge to present my views on the 2013 interior ministry budget, which I hereby salute on behalf of my group of High Assembly. The year we lived in the last days of 2012 was the year when the most important reforms of our Parliamentary history were made in Turkey, in terms of local governments and the commitment of government in place of state. The capital city, which was first implemented in 16 cities in 1984, has taken a bold step towards reform by the parliament, making all the city's borders the city's municipality in 29 provinces. This reform demand will not be limited to 29 counties, as it has been so far, but will be brought up by 52 other counties immediately after the 2014 March local elections, and will rule with the only unchanging change, democracy and universal rule of law. I thank and thank you on behalf of my country and future generations, along with our Prime Minister, the Minister and our government, for making this bold move, knowing that the first election would be heavily abused, not the next election, but the next generation. Mr. President, good lawmakers, no unfair practice can survive for long. If it can't be fixed, and it lasts forever, it becomes an injustice. I'm talking about the government of the coalition, founded between 1999 and 2002 by crisis, instability, international pressure, and the forces of certain coupters inside, the same logic that they shared between the CSIs and public banks and the Parliamentary Council. In this Civil Charter, the terms are unfair, the rules are unfair, and there is no trace of the simplest measure of conscience. Can anyone claim that the Civil Code, which gives 35 people ten minutes, 325 people ten minutes of speech time, is just? Can we call for a roll call every ten minutes and say that even though he's sitting in the General Assembly, he's in line with democracy and national will? Is there anyone who has no words left to say that the nation's will is within political decency and morality to occupy the bench that can be considered to be the honor of the nation's will, to claim it as an expression of weakness, even to be the country's conscience?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0242par0301	You're going to turn down the opposition? Shouldn't we talk?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0243par0302	Someone has to tell this friend how important opposition is.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0241par0303	See how master Necip Fazil Shortsphere dramatizes us like this: let him wait for ten stamps of God; ten men per person, one stamp for nine, nine for nine.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0243par0304	Every regime has power, only democracy has opposition.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0241par0305	If the wolf were to take my cab to the lambs, yay, my shroud's guarantor on the black market.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0243par0306	He reads poems he learned when he was young.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0241par0307	It's a shame, it's a sin, it's a crime, it's a fact. We don't, we don't, we don't, we don't, we don't, we don't, we don't, we don't, it's the people's right to be punished.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0244par0308	Nor do We allow to those who devour their rights.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0241par0309	No institution outside politics can provide the only hope that politics can solve people's problems. Politics can only be made by politicians who are clean, moral, who speak the truth when they speak the word, who keep their word, who do not betray the trust, who do not betray the trust, who do not lie, and who do not act in a state. What political party might think that its own reputation will rise if it loses the dignity and honor of its rival political party? What conscience, under this sacred roof, from the stand of the nation to the honor of the other MP, to his dignity, to his sanctity, to his halaline, to insult him, and to his satisfaction as a rival MP? The public's representatives are expected to consider their own sensitivity and dignity before they can make statements that have put any information in their hands that they've put into their hands, which has cast mud on the opposing party's deputy. People expect a leader of an opposition party under the roof of this great Assembly to show responsibility and sensitivity to the simplest standards of attacking the honor and honor of the nation's MPs based on false information that has been handed to him again. People are waiting for the people to ask their friends, who know nothing about the same general president, even their traditional characters, and who are not even remotely related to them, to find out about the heroes of the Battle of Salvation before they put them into politics. For ten years, this nation has known well who play zeybeks like lions on every election night in the Sea of Chinar Square, and expects those who have disappeared in the same evenings to respect the true will of the nation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the high Assembly, which is my country's only hope, that the 2013 budget be good, that it bring peace, prosperity, peace, and brotherhood to our country.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0245par0313	Thank you, Mr. Zeybekci.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0246par0314	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0245par0315	Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0246par0316	Mr. Orator speaking to the President of the Main Opposition Party, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroğlu...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0247par0317	It wasn't called the main opposition party.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0246par0318	Said the opposition party. He meant our president. We must answer that here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0248par0319	I mean, you have to answer, but who demands an answer? You?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0249par0320	Mr. Musa Pine.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0246par0321	Yes, I will.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0248par0322	Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0246par0326	Mr. President, valuable parliamentarians, of course here, we'll do our criticism as the opposition party, and the leader of the main opposition party will do it here. And I just said in my speech that the ruling party needs to be more seasoned and more tolerant about it. In particular, our former mayor of Deniz, who has experience and experience in this matter, needs to carefully and carefully choose his sentences and words as he speaks to a leader of the main opposition party here. The person who has to answer to our president is the president of the ruling party, not any parliamentary member of the ruling party. And we don't get up and do that. Therefore, as an experienced and experienced person in politics, you can't insult the president of the Republican People's Party from here, and you shouldn't do that; I'd like to say it's beneath you. Moreover, as a mayor, your skill is evident, and you will see the consequences of the next election, along with the entire city you have created. The flag of the Republican People's Party will be raised there, and I ask you, once again, when you speak to the president of the Republican People's Party, to choose the words and the words very carefully and carefully. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0250par0331	Thank you, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0251par0332	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0250par0333	Here you go, Mr. Zeybekci.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0251par0334	Mr. President, speaking to myself, I didn't mention... because when I wrote the phrases I used as a general political courtesy... as the main opposition party, if you look at the transcripts, I never said it.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0252par0335	No, he's not only accusing the CHP, he's accusing all parties of rudeness.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0251par0336	But in the group meeting of Mr. President General, I gave a courtesy answer to that speech he dedicated to me. So it must have been wrong for the esteemed congressman to talk about it here without knowing it. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0252par0337	I wish you'd named the whole coven without condemning it.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0253par0338	He's on record, Mr. Zeybekci. Your presence is well understood.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0251par0339	Mr. President, but you just promised, Mr. President, that I would never address you by name. That's a double standard.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0254par0340	He blamed all the opposition.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0253par0341	I gave it to the opposition because they demanded it, not by name, but as opposition. You said it yourself, everyone listened and went on the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0255par0343	I'll write it in the books as the merit of democracy.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0256par0344	Why don't you promise the opposition more, and let the record show. [[Continue]] 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) General Directorate of Highways 2013 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Highways 2011 Central Management Terms 1) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Undersecretary of Maritime, Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Final Account for 2011 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) Police General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Police General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Gendarme General Command Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget 2013 2) Coast Guard Command Final Account for Central Management 2011
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0257par0378	Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Nupınar.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0258par0381	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in 2013. I salute you and our beloved nation with love and respect. My condolences to our police officer, who was killed two days ago in the attack in Gaziosmanpaşa district of Istanbul. When it comes to the Home Office, I'd like to thank our officers, our soldiers, our teachers, our martyrs who died for this country, our veterans. In accordance with our Constitution and laws, the Ministry of Interior has taken on important tasks such as the undivisable integrity of our country, the protection of the public order and the security of the peace, the establishment of public morality, the establishment of property management departments, and the establishment of and regulation of local administrations, the conduct of population and citizenship services, civil defence, the suppression and surveillance of trafficking at home level. Therefore, our Ministry of Interior, the police department, the gendarmes, and the Coast Guard are making an excellent effort to maintain peace in our country. With the support of our government, our police department has been monitoring ongoing innovations, and through police universities of applied sciences and police vocational training centres, in the past decade, a total of 104,246 of our young people have been assigned to the police force. However, the way to become a police officer has been opened to our college graduates. The MOBESE system, which contributes greatly to the fight against crime, has been used at a maximum, this infrastructure has been established in our 80 counties and major counties, and has been widely spread throughout the country. In addition to business activities carried out on land, all activities in our seas are being carried out in 65 different ports, floating by the Coast Guard Command and undermining by air elements. As part of the fight against trafficking and organised crime, legislation regulations, particularly TCK, have been made to cover legal gaps in the fight against criminal organisations during our EC PARTI governments, with heavy penalties and deterrent provisions. In the fight against tax evasion, the government has been prevented from losing nearly $215m in tax dollars due to operations. Our Interior Ministry will continue its fight against terrorist organisations such as the PKK, the TK, and our fight against terrorism with the sacrifice and superior service of our security forces will continue until the last terrorist is destroyed. In all our provinces, the office of martyrs and veterans has been established within the governorates. The members of our ministry, including the village rangers, are compensated for the wounded with relatives of those who were killed in the fight against terrorism. On the other hand, public officials under Law 3713, private, private, temporary village rangers and volunteer village rangers, have been extended to the public with the scope of the right to work by Law 6353, which has been given to our veterans and relatives who have been unable to work because of acts of terror. As a ministry, a comprehensive work has also been launched to increase control of highways, speeding up the use of highway police to minimise the loss of lives and property in traffic accidents. New legal regulations have been made under the strengthening of local governments, and with these changes in the area of local administrations, the basic legislation that regulates this area has been renewed according to modern principles, as well as the international norms of our local administration system, and especially the conditions for the autonomy of the European Local Governments. One of the main services of our Home Office for our citizen is the population and citizenship process. Two very important projects have been implemented under the Central Population Administration System (MERNIS), one of the most important steps in the E-government. One is the identity sharing system and the other is the address registration system. The new generation, readable in the machine, was implemented by our ministry of chip passports in June 2010. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to thank the Interior Ministry's employees, especially Mr. Idris Naim Şahin, who has been involved in all of this work. He thanks those who have been working on the budget's preparation, that our budget is good for our institutions, for our nation, that our country's walk of strength and light can continue with speed and speed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish him to be the heir and pay my respects to your delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0259par0396	Thank you, Mr. Nupınar. Cırıkkale MP Oğuz Khan Koksal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0260par0400	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group over the Security General Directorate budget, which is part of the 2013 central management budget law. I salute you. At the beginning of my words, I ask for God's mercy, his condolences and health and health to our veterans, who were killed in the traitorous attack in Gaziosmanpaşa district of İstanbul a few days ago. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, there are significant changes in security services, which are one of the main public services, both quantity and quality. As the EC PARTI ruling, a radical paradigm change has been made in the understanding of security policies and has been adopted as a security approach to freedom. The police are running from success to success by tackling all the crimes that disrupt public order, which pose a danger to human life, to political, economic, and social order, which deeply undermine the social structure, and cause unfair competition. In this direction, the public-sponsored police service, the fight against terrorism, the fight against drugs and use of drugs, the fight against IT crime, illegal immigration, organised crime, strengthening criminal infrastructure, traffic safety and the effective MOBESE practices, and it continues its work accordingly. The police continue to fight terror, terrorism and other areas effectively and permanently, while they strive to bring social peace and peace. In this scope, the Social Supporting Police Project, the Safe School-Secretive Education Project, the Trust Teams, the public's been going around a lot, dealing with civilian combat teams in market places, hospitals, and also -- unfortunately, in recent days -- building a branch manager in the fight against domestic violence, and building a Highway Traffic Safety Strategy and Action Plan, but beyond all else, 81 of our provinces are working to light up crime by being brought into the MOBESE system. Of course, since I haven't had enough time to explain the police's major innovations and changes here in five minutes in the last few years, I'd like to make this point, gentlemen. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the public view of police has changed in a positive way by spreading these practices across the country, and polls and research have shown that the level of public satisfaction with security services has risen to the highest levels in recent years. This suggests that the police have established a virtual bridge of the heart between the citizen and the citizen. Of course, in that sense, I'd like to continue by saying that Mr. Pine would also like to apologize to the police.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0261par0408	What about all the torture you've done?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0260par0409	Mr. Pine, our police department has no horses or owners. Our police are a hundred and sixty-eight-year-old organization whose power is taken from the great Turkish nation, which is proud of the Constitution, the laws and service.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0261par0410	I'll remove all the torture you've done.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0260par0411	I'd like to put that on the record here. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, our organization has been successful in its dedication. Not only inside, but abroad, our police department has attracted the attention of institutions such as the OSCE, NATO, the EU, and has given education to many countries, particularly the Afghan police. When EC PARTY governments began their mission, the number of police units of 189,000 was more than 250,000 today. At this point, when we look at it, the police force is an organization that does great sacrifices day and night for the peace and security of a citizen and is not measured in anything. In this regard, our police's military service has been promoted to the first degree, the establishment of promotional titles such as the police and the senior police, the establishment of opportunities from some places, and especially our ten-year-old power has increased their rights to maintenance and autonomy. But is that enough? Of course, it's not enough, and I want to express it here. I hope that the work of our Home Office will soon be done, and new opportunities will be provided for our ever-appropriate police department. I wish the members of the department, especially our Home Secretary and Chief of Police, the successes of our budget and the best of luck, and I salute the High Council. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE)
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0262par0415	Thank you, Mr. Rootsal. Sivas MP Ali Turan. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0263par0418	Mr. President, I've been promised the budget for the General Command of the Gendarmes of 2013. I salute you all. The police force is always a security unit loyal to its home, its nation, and its republic, an example of sacrifice. The more secure and secure, the peace, security, and prosperity of the country, the more powerful is the state's economy, foreign policy and trade. The Ministry of the Interior is responsible for providing security and security within the borders of our country. This mission is carried out by the police in the city centers and the gendarmes in the countryside. The gendarme has duties and responsibilities, property duties, judicial duties, military duties, and other duties. 78 per cent of the country's population is police, 22 per cent MPs are in charge and responsibility. Seven per cent of Turkey's facial measurement is police, 93 per cent is the responsibility of the gendarmes. The General Command of the Gendarme is serving with 188,589 personnel as of today. There are a total of 1,892 occupational teams, 14 children and women's section commanders, 11 police and police officers, a total of 1,917 police and police units. In order to deal more effectively with the violence against women, the Department of Family Violence and Child Services has been established. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers serve as about 15,000 police personnel in 330 civilian prisons across the country. It ensures the safety of critical facilities such as airports, dams, hydropower plants, oil production fields, transmitter stations, oil and gas pipelines. There are about 3,000 personnel in the protection units for the protection of those who reside in the areas of responsibility and have a decision to protect them. A total of 340,523km of road roads are responsible for police traffic units, including 26 per cent of state-wide land roads, 86 per cent of county roads, all of the village roads. As part of the security of the police stations, 64 service buildings have been rebuilt as a secure outpost by the TOKI presidency. The construction of 89 service buildings continues, while the tenders of 70 are under way. As a result of the gendarme's active fight against drugs, 49.5 tonnes of marijuana, 996 kilos of heroin, 51 kilos of other drugs and 18 million 421,000 root cannabis have been seized. The amount of drugs seized in 2012 is around $2 billion. While carrying out his duties in this regard, the gendarme considers respect for human rights fundamental in terms of transparency and rule of law. In order to ensure security at the Syrian shelters, 434 gendarmes serve as a result of the incidents in Syria. In the 2013 budget, the amount of funding for the General Command of the Gendarme was $18.90 per cent higher than the previous year, and 5 billion 843 million 453,000 dollars. The budget includes personnel costs, social security costs, goods and service purchase costs and current transfer costs. The braves in the General Command of the Gendarme are heroes who have fought with the same faith and determination against terror, against our unity and unity, against the integrity of the country, as they had previously written in the mountains of Sakarakim, in the mountains of Allahuekbar, for the unbreakable integrity of our country. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I hereby express my gratitude to our gendarmes and their families, who serve under difficult circumstances in the most remote part of our country. I bless the heroic martyrs who have sacrificed their lives for the indivisible integrity of our citizens and our nation, and thank our veterans for the good fortune of the 2013 budget to our country and our nation, and salute you all with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0264par0432	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Nevşehir MP Abu Bekir Secgider, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0265par0434	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Coast Guard Command budget within our Ministry of Interior. Our Coast Guard Command has conducted hundreds of search and rescue operations in our naval jurisdictions every year, obstructing human trafficking, fuel, smoking, drinking, and the smuggling of historical artifacts and established administrative penalties. The AK PARTY government continues with self-confidence and nationalization in all areas, in the defence industry, with the Turkish tank Altay, with storm obsesses, with its rifle, with the Skyturk Satellite, with the drone, with the helicopter and many areas we can't count. The part of our national defense, which is missing from our party's power, will soon be completed, hopefully, and we will not be dependent on the forces of the unknown when a friend will become an enemy. This includes the Coast Guard Command's MOBESE of the seas, and the 50m-euro Coast Watch Radar Supply Project will be completed within five years. Our command's budget for this year has been estimated at $432,35,000. Congressmans, on the first day of the budget talks, I would like to inform you that I am a district MP on a matter which I believe has been misinformationed by the president of the CHP and was addressed by other opposition MPs. My explanation for our potato farmers. First of all, due to last year's frost incident, a total of $8,630,000, which is free of charge of $200 per decedent, was paid, and the farmer was not victimized. Again, the past has been established in the cities of Nevşehir and Niğde for permanent solutions as a result of our attempts at the marketable potato problem in the price range of a year and the adoption of our Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture. From energy inputs to planting areas and marketing, problems have been discussed and agreed on solutions with the contributions of ministry bureaucrats and all participants in the sector. The problem at the export point, the first of short-term solutions, has been overcome, and the price is rapidly increasing. The claim at the opening of the budget is absolutely not true. Again, studies have been launched on other medium and long-term solutions from supporting energy inputs to the use of alternative energy sources and to the introduction of plant areas. It's the essence of the matter, it's the right thing to do. I'm surprised from time to time that the esteemed lawmakers are talking about my country as they listen to the opposition. Because we are proud of the envy of our European counterparts in all European meetings in Europe, where I am a member of the EU Integration Commission. Last week, a French MP in the Symposium, where we joined some of our MPs in Vienna, told us: "In fact, you don't need this diseased European Union structure at all, you're on a much higher level. Of course, they're very proud of us, but I doubt, on the one hand, if he's an advocating French MP! Again, the last time I was in Myanmar, Asia, I saw there, millions of people we never knew, respected AK PARTI MPs, praying to you in tears. I can give you dozens of these samples. So in England, you shouldn't be like the foundation that's going in the wrong direction in traffic. If you ask our opposition when the whole world gives their appreciation, there's almost nothing we're good at. One in the opposite direction, but which way? Of course, if they'd just hand it over, I don't think these budget talks would have much taste either. Respected AK PARTY MPs, I'm running out of time, I've got some statistical data, I'm passing through. With these thoughts, I wish our country the best of the 2013 budget, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0266par0448	Thank you, Mr. Undercover. Now, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mud MP Iron Steel. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0267par0452	Mr. President, highly respected lawmakers, I'm going to salute you on behalf of my party and share with you the opinion of our group regarding the Transport Ministry budget. In the 2013 budget, the Ministry of Special Transport is usually not used up by the public dynamics, but rather by reading as a 2013 version of template budgets based on bureaucrats and technocrats of the relevant ministries. In this framework, the budget, above all, is far from participating, not transparent, far from accountable. In this respect, it is not open to control, so the control function of parliament over the budget has been bypassed, its duties are confined to parts of institutions' heads and centers. This understanding, by you, is not a newly seen, followed understanding, of course, it is possible to read as an extension of the neoliberal policies of the global imperial forces that Turkey quickly entered after the second half of the 1980s. In privatisation, you're also aware that a budget -- a privatisation of AKP's ten-year rule by 80 per cent -- has been transformed into a patchy bundle that will only serve to close the current deficit. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are political movement privatisation, marketing, subcontractorization. Neoliberism is the ideology of the political system, where freedoms are rejected, exploitation, oppression and violence are imposed on society despite society. When we combine today's practices with privatisation policies, which have reached 80 per cent, it's just the imaginations of the AKP (AKP) and its power, the anti-liberty political adult and the future of power. The budget has not been able to avoid being a war budget, as well as the budget, which has passed on freedoms, legitimate, democratic demands, and thus imposes denial, pressure, and security and law enforcement policies on society. It was supposed to be peace, that the society needed to have a legitimate, supervised, transparent budget, where its economic, democratic, political, social, cultural demands could be met. But I'd also like to point out that, as in the budget, it's starting to look at every aspect of life, and when we see it, it's starting to become a routine application sequence. I'd also like to express this from wiretaps to politics, to political language, to disadvantaged groups from meeting these social fundamental demands, to being from a political tradition and party that we see, follow, and approach in the approach of any legitimate, democratic demands of this society, as well as the practice that we've been terrorized by. Since 2009, this country has been forced to shape a new life in the name of freedom, in the name of justice, in the name of equality, while it has also been approached by a banned, monotheist, rigid, centrist state perception, while a people have been subject to the law of total hostility since 2009, their will has been broken, their will has been attempted to surrender. While science and technology are supposed to be focused on meeting the basic needs of man, education, health, production and employment in every field, it is necessary for them to carry on a function to meet the needs of society with its resources and resources, while listening to the environment, being subject to technical follow-ups with technological advantages, tagging, monitoring, ultimately being imposed on pressure and violence, as well as trying to keep society in captivity, we have been seeing and living through a series of practices since 2009. In this sense, it is possible to sequence the negative conditions, which are not suitable for employees from urban life, from disadvantaged groups. Above all, transportation, which is one of the most fundamental problems of the world today, caused by industrialization and urbanization, is that there are some conditions in which science and technology can be met with opportunities, from production to trade, from housing to social life, especially from workers, workers, students, from the transportation sector of this urban tissue, that are not being able to benefit or benefit from. Since urbanization has been transformed from the ruling centers of power, it has been removed from the women to the disabled, from the youth to the average citizen to a format where he can meet any need on the legitimate democratic ground, into a series of victims. It is also possible to see this on land roads, railways, shipping and air carriers. With the growing numbers, you can get tools that can be a sign of some development, but if they're not in the service of society, if they're far from meeting the basic needs of society, they're also controversial. Of course, like any country, Turkey is a dynamic society. Together with it, the sectors are faced with change, development. The railway is neither landway nor seaway nor airway is static, and they are faced with adapting to the needs of the day, feeling the depth of change. But in the 1950s, when the railway had a total capacity of 78% cargo, it was 42 per cent passenger transport, and today it was 48 per cent on the load, 24 per cent on the passenger. It is also possible to see the railway-like application on the sea road, while in our three-sided country surrounded by sea roads, the possibility of being both reliable and less damaged and faster should be presented to the public's service, while it is also considered to be the kind of land transport that is in the interests of global forces. Since a suitable journey cannot be developed, we are causing the death of dozens of our citizens, the traffic that we refer to as the traffic monster every day. These are things that need to be questioned. In this way, since the 1990s, the public's will has been handed over by the democratic legitimacy of its own culture, its own language, its own identity, by terrorising the democratic legitimate ground it has run using constitutional security, under the Anti-Terror Law, in democratic constitutions and laws that cannot possibly happen. We need to consider the process of questioning from the intellectuals of lawmakers, mayors and elected officials to their intellectuals, journalists to their journalists, students to their lawyers -- but they can be expressed by tens of thousands -- where many of our people have been questioned, detained, arrested, and even their claims remain unsubstantiated, as a reality of Turkey that we should all remember. Mr. Secretary, valuable lawmakers are key indicators of the economic development of both roads and railways and sea roads, as well as capacity development and development of a country's economic development, but these indicators can be read differently when we face practices in the geography where Kurds live, it is possible to come across a different and painful picture. From 1930 to 1950, the railway network was in the middle of a security situation from the south of Kurdish geography, mostly for military ammunition and equipment transport, while the roads did not cross until recently, but were in the middle of the caravan. With the AKP's power, transportation and travel have become almost daily torture on land roads, which have become a rat's nest, which cannot be completed as the project for the road.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0268par0462	What country do you live in, Congressman?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0267par0463	Throughout history, the denial, centrifugal practices of the 90-year history of the republic have brought us face to face with a painting that darkens itself and the future of society with it in Eastern and Southeast Anatolia.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0269par0464	We're amazed!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0267par0465	First of all, many politicians and state minds have no Kurdish problem, there is no Kurdish issue, there is a laglessness problem in the region. Despite what they say, for 90 years the laglessness of this region has been unresolved, the level of economic development has not been met, the level of feasibility has not been completed, the network, the service and the sheik has not been satisfied. I wonder why. There must be a reason in your mind that can explain this. While Turkey's western side has been integrated into imperial markets with capitalistic production relations, with regional development in this respect, which is far beyond the south and the east, why have the dynamics not been mobilized to allow infrastructure services to develop socioeconomically? There is only one explanation: to dehumanize the region, to drive the people of the region to the west side of Turkey, especially Istanbul, to Izmir, Bursa, Adana, Mersin, Izmit. The desired benefit from this is to get the Kurds into the system with rapid integration, by subjecting them to assimilation. As a result of this policy, 70 per cent of the Kurdish population has been obliterated for 90 years from political and social conditions, and is still being obliterated. Four thousand villages have recently been evacuated, burned to the ground, and the people of the villages, the poor, have faced the situation of placing their lives in the suburbs of the metropolitan cities. We have also created mega-citys with all kinds of problems in Istanbul, Mersin, Adana, İzmir, and the city we feel, from social trauma to political trauma, from interethnic conflict, from transport to traffic, from poverty to hunger. However, it is possible to live together in a democratic common country, administrative, financial, political autonomy, with a political mechanism in which everyone can manage itself, with 20-25 regional administrations at a legitimate democratic point instead of running Turkey from Ankara, Turkey from Istanbul. This unity will be in the best interest of both Turk and Kurd, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0270par0467	Thank you, Mr. Steel. İstanbul MP Sırrıyya Önder. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0271par0471	Mr. President, distinguished members, I salute you all on behalf of my party and person. We said in the Ministry of Culture budget in the morning that since the budget and budget control part of the business are now in the vacuum, at least we'll use it to develop a perspective on a solution to the problems we're experiencing. Now, the budget of a ministry that we are most interested in is being discussed. What we're dealing with is a matter of social, cultural, religious, human beings, but it's been a Kurdish matter ever since. All of his training, friendly forces-enemy forces, criminal or defendant-mass, were separated in two sharp lines, which were entrusted to units that, by nature, had to be so. It's called the concept of security, and when you put it on the end of it, it sounds like it's really something. Now, we're going to take some of this. I'd like to make a point to underline an illegal position by the Police Department. The police, you know, want to form a union, and the Police Department has issued a statement saying that according to international law, it is not legally possible. Let me begin by saying that we, especially the police, are with all public workers, including the gendarmes, including the soldiers, are at the end of the unionization struggle and we salute their efforts. There's two common twists of gum in the mouth. First of all, the BDP is not doing politics. It's an accusation that we often meet, which is thought to be true when it's said so often. Well, this is where politics is... Our Internal Affairs Commissioner is busy with the candy. Brother, you go ahead... [[Laughing from BDP and CHP rows]] Where do we do politics, how do we do it? Is there an area for politics here? Look at these lines, the opposition is more powerful than the power. You say we're going to use this budget, we're going to manage it.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0272par0479	Show me the government, is there a government?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0271par0480	The government doesn't exist. Now, BDP says that BDP does not do politics, except BDP says that the block is as it is. Why? Why is it called that? Is there any truth in that? We're actually thinking -- we've asked the public for votes with the promise and promise of politics, and we've come here -- to see if there's anything missing. They made you forget politics. September 12th... when everyone looks at their political party's policy-making style, style, content before September 12th, they'll all see that BDP is doing it today. Without your politics, you think what we're doing is out of politics. What does a BDP deputy do, a BDP deputy, a day, a week, a month? Here, on all commissions, we are the most continuous members of the commissions, as there are few representatives, and since there are many commissions, we are represented by a deputy in all of them. You have to admit, this group has the most qualified suggestions to touch the tooth, to polish the sink, to expand the horizon, to develop perspectives, to have originality, not to make a fuss, not to make a fuss. What else does he do? We have about 3 million voters. Your choice of most of you is unknown, they voted for your parties -- and I've got certain parliamentary friends who came up with a choice -- that's the way the system is, and if we get out a few members of the media -- in Istanbul special, go pick an AK PARTI, ask a CHP guy, a MP, they may know the most of their names. A BDP representative is known by these 3 million voters, who are known by name, by personality, by character, by virtue, by weakness, by every aspect of it. And we know all about them from house to house, street to street, prison prison -- because now they're in the usual criminal state, they've been criminalized -- all of them. That's how politics works. The fact that we've been dealing with gas, different physical violence, dishonoration operations has become a common practice, and it seems natural to you. If there are BDP MPs, they eat gas. So, for example, a BDP representative, if he himself eats gas, does not feed his constituent a single gas for whatever he's got to say, he won't step aside; he'll do anything to make sure it doesn't happen, but if it does, that's where he gets the first gas. That's how politics works. It's all about crying and joy and politics. Many political parties are now a company. Without hope of a future, you'll find a few men to take a glass of water from here to there, everyone has an account. And they're head-butting the bullet, voter, deputy, us, the manager. The Kurds are not doing the politics of the BDP. The BDP is doing the worst of politics. For example, another gum in your mouth, Kurd nationalism, has entered elections as a BDP block, so that we don't become Kurdish nationalists, so that we don't get in danger. How many of you have realized that? Look, there are socialists in this bloc, we have social democrats, we have friends from different faith groups, we have friends from different beliefs.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0273par0486	There's no more than a female proxy.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0271par0487	Which one of you has that variety? Homogeny, similar... even those conversations over there... so you're reading texts that are repetitive, probably out of the hands of consultants, or given by the ministry bureaucracy. That's how politics works. Look, a party, a political understanding, can take a political stance so wide and without computational computation to keep itself from falling into the trap of nationalism. Is that why BDP didn't do politics? For God's sake, tell me, put your hand on your conscience -- tell me -- we all know what the oldest issue of this land is. He's caused many of our children's lives over the years. I cherish them all, his guerrilla, his soldier, his police, his minister, all of them. Now, what party has developed a solution to this?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0274par0490	AK PARTY.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0271par0491	Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0274par0492	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0271par0493	The solution to the AK PARTY, Your Honor, is the security approach I just said. I don't have a Kurdish problem anymore, my Kurdish brothers have a problem. And the Kurds, believe me, they're gonna throw up. They don't want a brotherhood. You know why they don't want it? I'll show you. Normally, I'd like to have a quiet conversation, a horizon-opening conversation. Look, it's a coffin. It's a coffin. Judged by the dead and the mad. Look, here at the TOMA, they're interfering with two coffins with gas bombs and gas bombs. What's the demand? What's the counterpoint? The demand is that we walk this 500m road and bury this funeral. Diyarbakır police were making a Kurdish announcement not to wait for a funeral in the Shafii. If you have faith -- you have friends who are spiritualists, they can help you -- take care of the dead with efk. He says, with gentleness. I'm telling you from another history... this is recent history, ten days before that. This is his mother. Now, there's a General Bridges -- I don't know if you've heard of him -- at the Battle of Çanakkale. It's easy to come out here and say "Chanakkale." Why don't you take two minutes to think about it? In the Battle of Çanakkale, the French general -- there are military bureaucrats here, they know -- wrote his souvenir -- lost an arm and a leg. He wrote a memoir, an anecdote, and I want to share it. A French soldier was wounded, and I saw a poor Turkish soldier tear his shirt off and bandage his wound. They find an interpreter, and he asks, "Why are you doing this?" The French soldier suffered a severe wound. He had a picture, and I looked at it, and it was probably a picture of his mother, an old woman. I don't have a mother, she's not alive, she's got a mother, I told her not to die. A French soldier has no identity other than occupation in this land; no historically, no geographically, no reason for him to be here culturally. The general cries because he sees that the same bayonet wound is in the Turkish soldier, and he's kicked some weed in there. The end of the story is so sad, they both die there. That's what the French are going to do, and that's what you call your brother, and that's the treatment that Kurdish brother, whom Kurds perceive as cursing. Before you and we - and I - came to this land, the Kurds were one of the ancient peoples of this land. When did you learn these languages, who taught you, how did you lose so much? Is this what you do to funerals, is that what you do to the funeral community? Now, we support the effort to commit. We said, for this reason: This division... the Kurds don't do politics. On the matter of the Kurds, they do politics; for the first time, they offered something neat: they said it was democratic autonomy. They've detailed it, and they're still trying to elaborate. They stand at an open point of any suggestion, contribution, objection. What did you do? Everyone. The opposition, he says, called it Parliament. So, what are we gonna do in Congress? I, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Shandır, shall we sit down and discuss this? It doesn't work like that, we'll come with a political program. Democratic autonomy is the efforts of Kurds in this country, in this divided country. Kurds aren't the kind of guys who would stop saying that if they asked for a federation or a breakup or something. You know how he is, and I think you can all vouch for that. Motamot is people who say what they think and then one day take the price without saying it. Does a brother do that to a brother? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Let's be distant relatives, better than that, if that's the brotherhood. That's why you think of these photos when you call Kurd "sistership." You're going to say "equality." Let alone the brotherhood, or the manicurist terms, or fingernailed or something... it's a sociologic issue that can't be solved. ▪ This is the most magical thing, brother. I often say it on this bench. When the horasan men came to this land, they didn't have horses, they didn't have strollers, they didn't have guns, they didn't have armies, they were all 100-150. With one word, they spread all over Asia Minor: "We look at 72 nations with an evil eye." They said, "The 72 nations were rewarded because they were not dealt with with with with one evil eye." What are you guys doing? There's a pine mosque scandal. I suppose you know my sensitivity to faith. The architect sister over there says: "We've done 72.5 meters because the minaret is the height of 72.5 nations. You must mean the gypsies in half.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0275par0500	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0271par0501	That's what she said, Abla. Now, look, there's, uh, I'm not making this up from me. It's an understanding that's still in the interest of the half-and-a-half. It can't be solved with this. The Kurds don't want autonomy for themselves. Kurds really lead a more independent, freer life than we do because they're one step out of the system. There's no poverty, there's no suffering, there's no profit to those who stand outside the system. Bottom of the barrel! The poorest of the Kurds is constantly giving this movement life water because, by "brotherhood," your governors, your rulers, who are farting around in the region, have grown extraordinary. You say, "BDP is not doing politics." All right, give me a break! It's up to you to claim it. We as the BDP -- the ministry here, the authorities here -- in Diyarbakır, from the day we were elected; in Istanbul, from the day we were elected -- we were allowed to take the day off, which is ridiculous -- we couldn't hold a single allowed meeting, we couldn't make a single press statement. Is that what the BDP is doing? It's going to distance itself from violence! Is that what he's gonna put in? If you do not open up to politics, what do you expect from Kurd, if this area is within the armor of a policeman or the broom of a TOMA? What do you expect from the BDP? The only thing you're saying is that we scare them with immeasurability, we scare them with prison, we scare them with pressure. It's not over, it's not over because all Kurds, all Kurds who voted for BDP, all Kurds who voted for political identity, all Kurds who have a national democratic identity, it's not over before it's over. That's what we do, they get scared, they get short. Look, the most intense mass-accessed rallies during the hunger strike -- no matter how coincidental -- were re-established in three places -- where the mayors, the voters, were in custody. Not with this. The Kurds have been liberated. They really don't care about us anymore. They gave up hope, stopped hoping, and stopped being afraid. They want one thing, and we can still be integrated. They say, "He's got his heart set on it." Proposal of autonomy, which is considered criminal evidence in court, will not constitute a crime here for hours on the virtue of the neoliberal system. This power is so... Look, I'm not saying anything to you, and you're not saying anything to me. Stop beating around the bush.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0276par0507	Think about what you said to my governor.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0271par0508	Your governor's county... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] A governor who has banned all squares for a press release is only farting from his mouth.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0277par0511	Thank you, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0278par0512	You'll get your answer, that's all.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0271par0513	He's probably just farting out of his mouth. There's no other explanation.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0278par0515	Speak up!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0279par0516	Thank you, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0271par0517	There were 15 elected deputies there. You should think for yourself. So, how far are you going to squeeze these, how far are you going to trouble them? Look, right now, we've been in prison for 18 years; there's no torture, no torture we haven't seen.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0279par0518	Thank you, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0271par0519	Find another way, not with this. Our problem is to become one, a common country of this country...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0279par0520	Mr. Commander, please...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0280par0521	I'll tell you that much, you'll get your answer.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0281par0523	You behave yourself first!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0279par0524	Mr. Commander, please take your seat.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0282par0525	Mr. President, warn this minister!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0281par0526	You're rude! You behave yourself first! My foot's still hurt here, I got hit by a gas bomb from your governor.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0283par0527	It's been aimed, it's an engagement!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0284par0529	Mr. Commander, please take your seat.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0283par0530	I was with him, we're not lying, we've got footage.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0285par0531	Mr. President, Mr. Commander has made his speech, expressed his thoughts. Be modest. It's not your place to say!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0286par0533	You need manners!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0287par0534	No, Deputy, I was there, look...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0288par0535	We listened for 20 minutes, no one answered a sentence. Let each man know his own place.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0289par0536	Get him out, apologize. The minister will do the ministry!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0290par0537	Please take your seat.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0291par0538	One day the Kurds will say, "Come on, we're going to God." Then we'll all sit down and beat up a lot. Come on, let's go!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0290par0540	Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0292par0542	Mr. President, you should invite the Minister to behave. Mr. Commander here gave a speech to express his thoughts. And there was no insult in this conversation in any way.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0293par0543	He's insulting me!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0292par0544	You must intervene in his accusations, and you must invite him to discipline.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0294par0545	Mr. President, what discipline does the expression fart for a governor fit?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0295par0546	Congressmans, I've just called the speaker to the stand. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0296par0548	It's consistent with their manners!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0297par0549	That's enough, you've brought us here! For God's sake, that's enough!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0298par0550	I mean, you're making the whole coven nervous! There's a perfectly normal conversation going on.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0299par0551	It happens in an occupied place. I know manners, but...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0300par0552	Please, Mr. Commander, please... you have spoken, please let us hear Mr. Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0301par0554	Mr. President, the right to the budget is a constitutional right. The adoption of public resources, the use, the spending, the legitimacy of parliaments is the reason for the existence of parliaments. As the main opposition, as the main opposition, it is also the responsibility of the Peace and Democracy Party to answer for every penny the citizen put in the treasure. We're actually having a scandalous budget meeting right now. The budget financial report wasn't submitted seventy-five days ago. The government intervened in the central management budget, contrary to the Constitution of 163, with a decree in accordance with the law, establishing new ministries. The exact account was supposed to be presented in seven months, in April, starting at the end of the fiscal year, and it wasn't. The Court's reports, again on July 4, 2012, were not submitted to parliament, including reports covering the pre-law period chapter -- 132 of them. These were necessary for general fitness inspections, auditing for Parliament. And Congress represents the will of the nation. We'll get the government to pay for this, where you spent the money you took before you could make it work. The final account report was presented at the same time as the 2013 budget bill, which was not submitted. Now, look, lawmakers, in these budget talks, the final budget account of the Ministry of the European Union has not been submitted to this parliament, which is the budget of a General Secretary-General of the European Union, the Ministry alone. The exact budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has not been submitted to this Parliament. Do you realize we're discussing unsubstantiated budgets? A certain budget account of the Ministry of Youth and Sports has not been submitted to this Parliament. I'm willing to bet that the exact budget accounts of three ministries have not been submitted to this House. Now, can you guys tell me what part of the unsubstantiated budget you're going to discuss? Wasn't the defence, security, intelligence position, regularity, performance inspections lifted by the Court's Law? Look, there's a secret code, and I want to draw your attention to this secret code. Look, is there a report to the Parliament about security -- National Defense, MIT, Defense Industry Undersecretary, Undersecretary of Public Order Security, MGK Secretary General, Gendarme General Command, Security Directorate budgets? No. Has anyone been offered to the commission? No. Is there a confidentiality order? No. However, the Numberal Law has been changed. There are amendments to the Law, but that does not prevent reporting in some cases. Look, there's a secret code. Come on in the Internet, it'll come out like this, it's a secret code, look. We went after this secret regulation, the ministry didn't; I asked the Speaker, he didn't; then we went and found an 8-point generality, a secret regulation. That's not the secret code. Go to Google, you can take it off the Internet, friends, and weirdly, there's nothing hidden here, under the secret regulations of this court. There are no secret regulations in this country, there are deep, deep regulations. We're going to talk about your skin. See, the secret regulation is given to the institution on the basis of secrecy, and within 30 days, it says. Then it is presented to the relevant apartment and the General Assembly of the Count. No. From there he also comes to the Assembly. There is no one there. Now, look, we're moving on. Secret code number five, there's only a secret record at one point. The location of the state's goods, technical properties, quantity, how, where to use it is hidden, that's all, no more friends. We're spending the world's budget here, we're talking the most budgetary ministry right now. Now, in this deep code, the Home Office has something like this. Normally, we assumed that all of these safety markers were tied up. Since he's not around, since he's not in the budget, can you tell us what we're going to question now? When we were studying at Mardin High School, the teacher took out a student, and looked at him like this. What about the ball neck, the long favorite, the lower belt, the Spanish boot, the high heel, where should I ask you? Ask me a question. Where should I check on you? You keep an eye on us, you! After you possess this joy, this power, this inefficiency, you control us through this profound regulation, brother. We're not the will of the House, we're not the will of the nation; if we were, you'd give this bill to this Parliament, and you'd answer for what you've spent the people's pennies on. Well, there's no such lack of control in law states, democracies, friends. That would be in totalitarian regimes, that would be in pirate budget negotiations, not anywhere else. Congressmans, safety and freedom are too vital to be left to armed security forces alone, it's important. Otherwise, a force outside the control of the House, the legislature, the judiciary, is an uncontrollable, dangerous force. The AK PARTY government has now become an uncontrollable force. There's no place for that in parliamentary democracies, my friends. The highest, most growing pen ministry in the 2013 budget. 21.93 per cent in the police, 18.9 per cent in the gendarmes, 24 billion et cetera, except for their covered allowance, supplements. Now, let's look at some of the applications of the ministry, which has increased budget, but is unmanageable, unaccountable. Some are similar to the Nazis, some are similar to Al Qaeda and Taliban, and more likely to follow the implementation of the same regime as Sedat and Assad. He's got an interesting security policy and a budget. Now the AKP has formed its deep state. It's the budget's source, it's the ministry's biggest source. There's a deep side to this ministry that's seen and unseen. One, there's an interior ministry in the schematic, on the Internet, and there's an interior ministry on deep, private tables that doesn't go online; there's parallel state organisation; there's police, there's gendarmes, and there's this in all the units of the armed forces' covered funding. There is a parallel, illegal budget outside the legal budget that has been implemented by this congregation organisation model. Look, this has 3 axis points, and this is congruent to 3 axis points. One, there's something out there that cooperates with imperial capital. MIT, CIA, Mossad, TSK, NATO, IMF, Washington, again Tel Aviv, Saudi Arabia, Qatar secret private offices, organized. On the one hand, the anti-ESAM -- in this crisis -- grew understanding, while the Islamic radical developments, such as the Muslim Brotherhood, encouraged capital from the global crisis, starting in Egypt, and in Syria, and in the new regimes of the Middle East, in order to make the radical Islam take power -- instead of its dictators. Inside, a racist, nationalist front is being developed, and there's a racist, nationalist -- one we've seen examples of in the past -- that makes all the opposition vomit blood. This is a very dangerous climb, look. Third, it's about cooperation with militantism. Whatever the gendarme's JITEM is, it's going on today. The heads of JITEM are in charge of the General Staff today. From the unknown activities of JITEM, from the burning of the village, from the cases lost in the ECHR to all of them. This government, which threw away the progress report, is unable to pass chapters 23 and 24 on police, gendarmes and security forces. That's where the greatest danger of democratic rights and freedom develops. Look, it's snowing in the mountains right now. I've just arrived from Şırnak, and there's an operation in the snowy mountains. The same is done in the mountains of Şırnak, in the mountains of Cudi, in the mountains of Cilo, in the same way that Enver Pasha had done in Sarıkamişta. And I know it's my duty to tell you. Friends, when you view the Kurdish problem as terrorism, you can't solve the problems of this country, you can't bring peace, you can't bring brotherhood. When you misdiagnosed this country, you take the wrong methods in this country, you go back to the 1990s, the method; that's what happened today. Unfortunately, in the Middle East, it's being developed to win the friendship of Kurds rather than to win the friendship of Kurds. In the native language, education, equal citizenship, strengthening of local governments, autonomy such as innocent, legitimate, legal, right-born demands are met with separatism syndrome, and are severely tried to suppress them. That's why over 10,000 politicians are inside, my friends. 6 MPs, 36 mayors, over 10,000 politicians, and every day in 3-4 counties, when you wake up in the morning, on subtitle televisions, CK investigations... the latest ACK investigation has been done to public relations with the seniors who have been doing peace studies in Mardin. I report that today at Viranşehir, Ahmet Türk went to the peace dinner of two great tribes. He's a member of the committee, so you can prepare a statement for him! Now, look, beyond these studies in the Middle East, the goal of AKP's deep state is to silence the opposition, to build its strategy on this. The Kurds, their political parties, their unions, their associations, not the Turks' opposition, the other left parties, the socialist parties, the unions, all of them. So much so that until yesterday, Kızılay Square smells of perfume; it smells of gas; Ankara, the heart of the capital, 100 meters beyond Parliament. Look, the concept of security in the Kurdish problem began with the beginning of losing votes in the opening process at the AK PARTY, friends. I don't have time to count them now. Mr. Sırrıyya, our brother told us very well about the attack on the funerals. Now, we are forbidden to enter or leave cities. Our mayor died in a car accident, and I'm coming from Diyarbakır in a funeral convoy, and they're cutting us off like bandits in Cizre with armored vehicles, and they say, "You can't go into the city." That's the kind of understanding we get when we're taking the funeral of the mayor of my party. Mr. Commander just gave me the attack on the mosque. I, of course, don't understand what the Prime Minister or the Minister's approach to... look, the attack inside the mosque, do you see? You're attacking a funeral in a mosque. What morality, what religion, what procedure, what law will accept that? And those who die are with Allah after death, and they wait for the last resort of Allah. Look, you crippled a women's MP here in Silopi. Look, the moment you and I were attacked. After that attack, they changed the name of that TOMA (Toma) to the Silopi Dragon. This is Roboski, your act. Don't look at me like you're having second thoughts or anything. Society is going to explode, it's going to explode. From that view you see... ten days later, it's their anniversary. The Parliament's Human Rights Commission couldn't do anything, nor could anyone. Look, here, the government's justice has returned to Turkey's prison. Look, see? Open prison is Turkey now. And your development is all over the place! This is the attack with gas bombs while Mr. Idris Bauken was with Mr. Idris. The slightest explanation, the slightest constant assault on the meeting. This is zero tolerance for torture, my friends! It's the government's doing. Now, after I've put all of these actions into play, I propose a vote: they're building a big prison concept in Diyarbakir, called Recep Tayyip Erdogan, as well as F-types, like dams. All in favor, raise your hands. You're too much opposition... Look, guys, I've got to name prisons, too, not the dam, not the school.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0302par0581	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0301par0582	In Şırnak, the last thing you know, there was a three-story concrete in front of the police department, four-sided. There was a three-story curtain of concrete.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0302par0583	Mr. Kaplan, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0301par0584	Go take a picture of the curtain concrete -- I'm announcing it to all the press -- go ahead.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0302par0585	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0301par0586	Look, that curtain is a monument to shame in Şırnak, after the Berlin Wall and the wall in Gaza.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit03spe0302par0588	Mr. Kaplan, your time is up. Thank you. Congressmans, I'm gonna take a 45-minute break.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0302par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 39th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the sixth round of the Central Management Budget Bill in 2013 and the 2011 Central Management Computation Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Istanbul MP Durmis Ali Torlak. Here you go, Mr. Torlak.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0303par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry in 2013. I hereby salute your high council. The transport system, which has become an essential part of human life, has a constant economic and social impact on society. With globalization today, the rapid increase in the world's trade volume has made the transport sector one of the world's most important actors. The rapid developments in today's transport technologies have led to significant improvements and changes in the transport sector. Therefore, joint policies are set for the harmonisation of the global and regional transport sector and for a more efficient, competitive and secure service presentation in national infrastructure. While large investments are being established in the transport area, the distribution of the country's resources between transport systems should be based on efficiency. The success of this plan, no doubt, would be possible by combining transport rather than weighting one of the systems. This reveals that while our country's three sides are surrounded by seas, it should be about 1 per cent of domestic shipping and five per cent of the railway, while the road transport is above 90 per cent of Turkey's transport policies should be questioned. As we look at the developed countries, the sea routes and railways of all types of transportation have been prominent, and neither of the transports in our country have yet to reach the desired level. The ministry's non-supply fuel support has provided an important support for the revival of the kabotage transport, which we cannot deny, but I believe this support is not enough for the economic interests of our country surrounded by seas. Besides, the ratio of road transport also confirms my opinion. Another issue is croissant tourism: With the number of passengers coming to our country with these ships, which have been the center of attraction over the past five years, unfortunately, port investments from the croissant ships are not enough to meet the demand. The significant financial revenues of the cruiser tourism must be taken into account and must be immediately opened by the port of a croissant that is worthy of Istanbul, İzmir and Antalya, and in the croissant tourism of Istanbul, Izmir and Antalya must be brought into important main ports. Once again, positive predictions of the world container traffic from 2013 and later have led global port investors to invest in areas that are developing or promising in new areas. At this point, we need to be more prepared for these developments as a country when new container ports are needed. Dear lawmakers are the most recently talked about transportation investments in fast train investments. The investment of the express train in passenger transport is not required by freight trains and conventional trains. The lack of conventional lines, the excess of inter-state transport time, has significantly reduced demand for the railway. This causes traffic to shift to the roads of the land, and the railroads to be thrown out. Moreover, the length of distance also increases the cost of transportation on the railways. In addition, the number of optimal flights is not possible because -- except for the fast train line -- a large part of the railway is monolined. Thus, this situation in railway transport is the clearest evidence of Turkey's lack of transport policies. Dear MPs, I was in Chile last weekend because of a sea accident in the Black Sea Chile on December 4, 2012. I have to say, based on the information of those who saw the crash -- in this case, a major mission negligence and abuse of the executives of the Coast Guard headquarters, because I know very well that the Coast Guard had such serious boats -- if they had been interfered with by a more heavily equipped rescue ship from the Coast Guard, or at the time of the accident, if the rescue helicopter had arrived instead of the crash site. Thus, it was not right to go out on that boat and try to rescue the sea in a very violent moment. Moreover, there are allegations that the other Coast Guard rescue team was forced into the field, even though they were allowed to go out to sea in this weather. If that's the case, that's a big crime. Only Ahmet Kasarcı was saved from this accident with injuries. Captain Cemil Özben and the crew, Turgay Sarıboğa, who were found on the boat, lost their lives. The fisherman who wanted to help, Mümin Akgun, and the crew member, and my long-standing close friend, Mehmet Genç, have still not been found. Therefore, I would like to make it very clear that search and rescue efforts must be concentrated and that our missing sailors must be found. Because at least their parents want to take their funerals and pray to them in their graves. The alien flagship, which led to this sad event, is a 36-year-old ship built in 1976. It is a great risk that these ships, not taken to European ports because they are old, pass through the Turkish straits. I think it's better to understand how big this risk is, how we use our seas and our Turkish throats in vain. Therefore, we must follow international rules so that our seas do not become a graveyard of ships and we do not experience such sad events. Precious lawmakers, countries that care about the naval sector in the first degree, countries whose economy depends on foreign trade, create active naval forces to protect their interests at sea and the large part of the country's economy from possible dangers. The ship, vehicles and weapons systems that create this naval power must be developed in order to contribute to the country's economy and ensure technological independence within the country. Dear lawmakers, it is imperative that our aging and shrinking cosster fleet, which had an undisputed advantage 15 years ago, be renewed. The ministry will have the potential to find loads when it joins the fleet, both by our shipyards and by mass, if it establishes the proper construction conditions by implementing the investment of our Kosster fleet called the Turkish Star. A credit opportunity should be created to ensure that these ships are built in existing shipyards. That way, both our old Kosster fleet will be restored and the shipyards will survive the financial and delivery crisis they're living in. With action from here, my personal opinion is that our shipyards have been forced to merge into large shipyards, combined with state-of-the-art, special incentives and technology support in today's world order to achieve a healthier structure in the international arena and to increase competitiveness. Otherwise, it is unlikely that the country's shipbuilding sector will be able to stand up in the short term. Therefore, I think it would be better to work together to strengthen the shipyards and secure a solid financial structure. Minister, about a month ago, in Arabia with about five or six AK PARTI MPs, when we were in Riyad, some of our friends, our people at the embassy -- I had already submitted to you -- it was said that a large number of our dead people were asked to bring here in Turkish Airlines planes, such as 8,000 Riyals. I would like to share with you the sentiment of our friends from here, of bringing our dead people in Turkish Airlines planes for a ticket, or at the point where the price is not paid. On this occasion, I wish the budget to be a blessing, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0304par0022	Thank you, Mr. Torlak. Adana MP Ali Halaman... Here you are, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0305par0026	Thank you. First, I ask for God's mercy on our cop who was killed in Istanbul. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget for 2013, the National Board of Highways. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group and myself, I salute your grand delegation and the great Turkish nation. The General Directorate of Highways is an institution founded in 1950, which plans to serve the road to our country on the bridge with 15-16,000 employees. It feeds a country's economic, social, cultural values, looks like dead investment, but basically it's the basis of production, the economy. It is shaped, shaped in the initiative of political power, and its budget is discussed every year in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The government tells you what you can't do, the opposition says you can't do it, negotiate and question. Now, ten years of power, which is the main work of the highways, we've given some of it to the private administration, saying, "Confiscation," some to BELDESS, some to BELDESS. But it is the job of the government to make the bridge, the road, the tunnel of our country. Because of what he did, if he made the road, if he made the bridge, if he made the tunnel, if he made the tunnel, if he made the way through the tunnel and the car crossings, then the direct, direct power gets paid. While the problems of our country's land roads have increased many times over the past decade, the spokesman of power praised the Prime Minister, the Minister, the political actors, saying that transportation is good starting with Adana, that there is no trouble on the roads, that the vehicles and equipment are comfortable on the roads. I wish those compliments were true. We've been on and off the road to Ankara-Adana for ten years. All the citizens, the witnesses, we made a double road. They called it a white scratch. Now, since you got this scratch, is the repairs done on your way to Adana? Is the renovation over? Is the traffic route over? Any less traffic accidents from the wavy road? Again, four or five years of Adana-Kozan land road? The Kozan-Feke-Saimbeyli-Tufanbeyli road, not even the road, was shown a curve correction, but the road hasn't ended in five years, even though all the forests on the edges were cut off. Even though 90km of public costs have been paid, has the Kaiseri-Inner, Feke-Kozan-Iskender road been completed in your ten-year power? Have the Ceyhan-Eggland-Adana-Messin coast and tourism road been taken care of again, has it been done, has it been done? We're going to build the subway again. Did you do the subway, even though you said it? You deposed and sued the mayor who tried and tried to do it for political reasons. Did you nail Adana? You took the airport to Mersin. You deprived the production fields of encouragement, encouraged the surrounding provinces, and placed Adana in the economy, in the industry, in the fourth place, in the 18th place. You've made unemployment 20 to 25 percent. For ten years, all the districts of Adana, Kozan, Imamoglu, Karaisalı, Ceyhan, Pozantı, Aladağ, Feke, Karataş, Saimbeyli, Tuğtbeyli, Sarıçam, Kalyr, Seyhan, in the past decade, did you do a proper course, within ten years, other than the Milliyetian Movement Party? Have you made the way to Ceyhan-Imamoğlu-Hakkaya again? Two or three months before each election, in the name of KYODES, we'll make your way to some of the chiefs. You said, did you do it? And you've classified the trucker, bus driver, indoor movers, international movers for ten years. You've classified them by saying, "K1, K2, K3, K2, C2, SRC." You forced the documents to be taken on the road, the trucker, the busman, the trucker, the Ministry's handler, the police traffic, you handed over a permanent fine, increased the gas prices, and handed over the transport to the runaway diesel man. Turkey had a growth in the sector, along with incentives from 1990 to 2000 in road transport. 65% of the transport companies were founded at that time, the movers had gained power due to the incentives provided by the state, but for the past ten years, you've raised incentives, quotas in the visas, increased gas prices, increased car prices, low rents, logistic fleeters, logistical fleeters, truckers -- 30 to 35 per cent of foreign transport share of foreign vehicles from visas, quotas, punishments -- because of our membership in the government. The competition was one-sided because there was no incentive to transport, and the customs doors didn't become mobile, so there were queues when they went abroad, but there were no tail shortages of foreign vehicles. Besides the land transport, railway transport is not as good as you say in your ten-year-old power. The rail tile of the Republic is 3,208 kilometers in 20 years, and is 1,085 kilometers in your ten-year period. We built a fast train. You said, "You caused an accident; you derailed the trains." In your ten-year period of power throughout our country, neither truck nor truck or bus business can go smoothly, safe. It is the government's duty to comfort the country, to keep the trucks, buses, trucks on their way to land, without being burned down, without being destroyed. As a government, you did not carry out this mission. Now, you want to change the Constitution. You move political problems to Oslo, to the European Parliament and turn Turkey into a controversial country. Turkey is not a NATO country, it is a member of those who say that I am Turkish, that I am Muslim. You're saying we're the big country. Barzani is our friend, we are very proud of him. You invite him to your convention, but the person you see as friends does not bring your plane, your minister's plane down from the airport. Give up changing them, transforming them, accepting magic, advanced democracy, thirty-six ethnic structures, end the problem of the movers, give up the money for the places you've nationalized for the road, the roads you've built, the contractors. You sold all the government's goods, and took heavy debts from outside, and raised the indirect tax to 80 percent. There's no development by paying a lot of interest with the money of the hand. There's no way to raise such a budget by being in constant debt. I wish you all the respect and respect that this budget, despite all the negativity, is good luck to our country.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0306par0043	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Kütahya MP Alim Ik. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0307par0047	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the People's Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Civil Aviation Directorate and Information Technologies Agency in 2013. I hereby salute you and our beloved nation who follow us. The name of the telecommunications agency established in 2000 to organise and supervise the telecommunications sector in our country has been changed to the Information Technologies and Communication Agency in 2008, and the institution has been authorized to regulate issues such as protecting consumers and last users, processing personal data and maintaining privacy and so on. In short, this institution, which has been called BTK, as you all well know, has publicly announced its name before the June 12, 2011 general elections, that it has faced a tape conspiracy to leave the National Movement Party outside the Parliament, and has declared itself the guardian of the government and AKP executives, who have lost their independence in order to monitor the incidents quietly. The P.T.K., in its autonomous nature, understands this autonomy as a direct command. In recent years, changes in the agency's organization's regulations have both victimised employees and prevented institutionalisation. The BTK, generally responsible for the safe use of our citizens on the Internet, has not even been able to secure its own website, let alone provide Internet security for our citizens. As a matter of fact, in February of this year, we are all reminded of the news that many personal information has been obtained, including TC ID numbers, by groups such as Redhack (Redhack) and "Anonymous" have been hacked into by the institution's website. The BTK should spend its energy in activities aimed at ensuring the Internet security of institutions and citizens rather than forcing current executives to resign, replacing cleaning and security companies employees with supporters, constantly playing with institutional structures and driving staff from place to place. In many countries in which the BTK has been active, the European Parliament has agreed to start operating in Turkey, as it violates the privacy of personal data and communication and acts contrary to basic human rights and freedoms, with a shady decision by the European Parliament, including Turkey, banning its activities on EU borders. When reviews were raised, he was content to make a brief statement on his own official website rather than do what he needed to do. This approval must be immediately cancelled and prevent information belonging to our citizens from being marketed to other companies. In 2000, when the BTK was established, the number of mobile operators in the 4 sector was reduced to 3 ▪ during the AKP period. The union of ARIA and AYCELL (AVEA) has cost the state approximately $1.1 billion. The Italian company TELECOM, which is part of the ARIA company in the process, must be explained by when, through whom, and by how much it sells its shares. Mr. Secretary, we expect the following questions regarding this institution and the sector under your responsibility to be answered. During the privatisation of Turkey's TELEKOM, about 68,000 institutional employees have now dropped to what, and in the process, how many people have been transferred to different institutions? How much money has been paid for the labor force that's been thrown out of the field? In comparison to this amount of privatisation revenue, how much was net gained from this sale? What conditions have been set for the privatisation of Turkey's TELEKOM (TELOM) and annual investments? What's the difference between routine investments every year before privatisation and investments after privatisation? How much more will the pay be collected from landline subscribers, even though it has not been used by TELECOM? In the concession agreement signed after Turkish TELEKOM privatisation, even though authorities put opposition in their hands, did the head of the institution sign this concession, and if he did, then what kind of administrative procedure was done to the head of the institution, who later corrected the wrong process with a court order? Why hasn't an alternative structure ever been created for Turkey's TELECOM, which maintains the actual monopoly in the sector after the privatisation? Is it true that recent claims of selling Turkish dwellings belonging to TELEKOM (TELEKOM) have been emptied and that an empty TELEKOM will be restored in 2026? What kind of proceedings have been made regarding the provisions of the BTK? What criteria have been taken into account by the president of an institution that was clearly criticised and not successful in this report, and for the second time has been appointed to the presidency? How many people have been replaced, removed, appointed, appointed or harassed since the second president of the BTK? What are the reasons why you remain silent as Secretary of State against this psychological abuse? Why is it that office heads and vice presidents of the institution's executive office have not been observed for at least ten years? Has the union, which has been in charge of the agency for years, had any effect on the recent change of names? Is it true, Minister, that the use of the Universal Service Fund, created by a share of the institution's revenues, has been used for non-communicational expenditures, and the expense of the ferry, which was used for the visit to Imralı? When are cell towers in large cities usually stopped after midnight in between the neighborhoods? What is the purpose and reason for transitioning to the HGS in bridges and road crossings? To whom has new jobs been created and how much money been taken out of the pockets of our citizens? In a nutshell, it is not appropriate for the institution to deal with its employees and participatory staffing rather than the solution to the problems of a huge sector that it should organise and oversee. These wrongs have been made by our beloved nation and the National Movement Party, and I would like to share with you that there will be a decisive stand to be asked one day. Dear MPs, in this part of my speech, I'd like to say a few words about the activities of the Civil Aviation General Directorate. Although the industry is boasted of digital increases and profits, its real problems are ignored. Statistics on recent accidents in civilian aviation and flights that have caused the accident clearly show the state of the sector. In 2010, the European Union and US aviation companies' fatal accident rates range from 0.17 to 1.36, respectively, while Turkey's 3.60 shows the true state of the sector, based on international reports of aviation accidents. At this rate, Turkish civilian aviation became Europe's first in mortal accidents, and the world's third in the world. The measures to reduce this place must be taken immediately. In our country, despite digital growth in this sector, it is clear that companies are behind this growth in terms of qualified personnel and technical infrastructure. It is unlikely that the current structure and Civil Aviation General Directorate will register and oversee our civilian aviation. The Office of Civil Aviation must be immediately restructured, considering international standards. It must be inevitable to work with expert and qualified personnel with sector experience, foreign language knowledge, and the restructuring process. A flight safety board must be set up, consisting of expert people with the education and experience of all areas that directly or indirectly concern flight safety. Also, the autonomous and independent work of this board must be made. Again, in our civilian aviation, we need a fully autonomous monitoring board. Under the ministry umbrella, the civilian aviation upper body and aviation must be formed here, where the shareholders will be brought together. With these feelings and thoughts, I wish our country and all institutions the best of the year 2013 budget, with respect again.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0308par0074	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mehmet Erdogan, the muğla MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0309par0078	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Internal Affairs budget on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the most important law in this year of legislation is the new Metropolitan City Law. This law has divided our country into city states, changed our administrative structure, laid down the foundations of federalism, created the infrastructure for changing the regime of our country. This law has ignored our 5,000-year-old state tradition, our 600-year-old empire experience, and all the experience of a republican state coming to an age. I'd like to put it bluntly that this arrangement is not the request of the Ministry of Interior, it is not the request of lawmakers. This arrangement is not the demand of mayors, NGOs, occupational organisations, elected city council members, village chiefs, citizens. In the end, this demand is not at all the demand of the Turkish nation. All right, whose request is this arrangement? I tell you, this arrangement is the request of the architects of the Great Middle East Project, the demand of the Osloians, the people who attended the meeting in Oslo, this arrangement is the demand of the bloody terrorists, the NEP, who tried to destroy the foundations of our thousands of years of brotherhood, who wanted to redesign the Middle East at the cost of the loss of the blood of millions of Muslims in the Middle East. Therefore neither the AKP nor the President could resist this demand, and the bill, as it were, has been passed and legalised. The promise of the election of governors in Oslo is immediately brought to the public's agenda. Dear lawmakers, if the Constitutional Court does not cancel the new Metropolitan Law, our country is on a dark path. Unfortunately, the most important truth of our country is, Mr. Prime Minister, come on, everybody get on the train. The majority of them get on the train, but no one asks where the train is going. Of course, there are other consequences to this law, my friends. With this law, the fight against terrorism will be neutralized, the custody authority will be wiped out, because that's what makes governors and trustees ineffective and unauthorized. In 29 counties, the governors' zoning, environment, agriculture development, registration and auditing of workplaces have been taken away from them all their authority on rural infrastructure, particularly roads, water and sewers. In terms of subsidiaries, all tasks and powers, such as road, water and sewers, development and support of agricultural life, and management of workplaces, are terminated as part of the development of rural infrastructure used through rural transport units. Again, due to the lack of city general assembly in 29 counties, the governors' custody authority over the state general Assembly's decisions has also been eliminated, and as the governor's decision has no guardianship authority over the municipal council's decisions, so the city council's decision has no custody authority over the decisions. As it is known, the Constitutional Court has called off Mayor's Law No. 5216 and City Law 5393 on the finalisation of Parliamentary decisions, citing the use of custody authority of municipal executives over municipal parliamentary decisions and the approval of property executives of some municipal parliamentary decisions. In accordance with the grounds of the Constitutional Court's cancellation, the city has not been re-established custody authority over parliamentary decisions by re-opening the Parliament's agenda. I also condemn the ruling mentality of the Constitutional Court, which has not made any changes in accordance with its decisions, which deliberately and willingly condone the unlawfulness of municipal parliamentary decisions. Dear lawmakers, the government is confusing the fight against terrorism with negotiations with terrorists. There's no other country in the world but us that says he's fighting terrorism and negotiates with bloody terrorists on different platforms. Now, I'd like to ask the bargaining mind if there's ever been any news of the candidate who was kidnapped on August 13, 2011. Again, have you heard from Petty Officer Abdullah Spazceler, who has been held hostage by terrorists for a year and a half? What kind of mentality is that he can't even take care of his own creamer, his own security guard? Of course, terrorists who are pampered by negotiations are relentlessly attacking our police, our soldiers. As a result of your negotiations in Oslo, you will meet the demands of the terrorist organization. What are these demands? First you're going to open TRT Shesh, you're going to have the Habur scandal, you're going to build Kurdish institutes in this nation, you're going to build 4+4+4 institutes at universities, you're going to choose Kurdish, you're going to be proud of Barzani in the AKP congress, you're going to make him a guest of honor, you're going to bring the law that allows you to defend the Metropolitan Law in the main language, and then you're going to announce that you're going to bring multilingualism to the Parliament agenda, and then you're going to go out after that, we're going to fight terrorism, the BDP MPs went too far, and you're going to take off their immunity, and you're going to bring it to a boat. This makes it clear that you have no intention of fighting terrorism. The fight against terrorism requires intent first, then determination. If you had shown your determination to negotiate with terrorism, many of our provinces, particularly Hakkari, would not have returned to the fire last summer; the mothers, sisters, wives, children of our soldiers, police, and innocent citizens would not have wept. Speaking of which, I would also like to point out that the failure to perform a procedure so far on the Diyarbakır Police Commissioner and the Tucson Police Commissioner, who have hurt our fallen families, our veterans, who have questioned all of our humanity, has upset the morale and motivation of the security units that are fighting terrorism, and unfortunately has affected the public's view of the state. One of the most important elements in counterterrorism is the draining of the funding resources of terrorism, my friends. It is also known that the necessary measures are not taken. The most important funding of terrorism, unfortunately, is smuggling, but in a very large part of our country, it's also known to everyone that cheap diesel is being sold. In this regard, I would like to invite all the responsible, especially the Home Secretary, to be dehydrated by the funding resources of terrorism. Now, our country is slowly going to a local election atmosphere. In the process, the government has set its sights on opposition municipalities, it has earned the favor of citizens in the country, and each one of them is relentlessly attacking our National Party of Action mayors, each of whom is a service monument, and is trying to discredit our mayors. Mr. Secretary, you are punishing our mayors and their services, not just them, but our citizens who live there. I complain of your ulterior motives to the conscience of our great nation, and I speak to you again: the citizen will make an assessment of you and theirs in the elections. My advice to you is to get your hands off the nationalist movement municipalities before long. He is the deputy governor of the Metropolitan City Law and the rights of our trustees, unfortunately, have fallen behind. In the country, it must be ensured that the rights of the rulers to govern our government and our government be made equal to the judges who serve under similar circumstances. Unfortunately, our village and neighborhood chiefs, the smallest division of our democracy, have not taken a serious step so far. The pensions of both our citizens and our community heads must be paid at least as much as the minimum wage, provided the pensions of our village and neighborhood chiefs are covered from the budget. Again, it is also imperative that the rights of our city council members, with considerable efforts to bring services to the rural area, be implemented by their duties. Today, of course, there's been a serious increase in public affairs. The reason for this is not, in fact, the weakness of the Ministry of Interior's practices alone; it is now the economic social tension in the society, which stems from AKP's ten years of power. Now, society has reached the point of social boom. It is past time for a wide range of social measures to be taken, considering the events we face today beyond simple incidents of security. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the budget of 2013 to be blessed, with the respect of your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0310par0093	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Elazig MP Enver Erdem. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0311par0097	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Police General Directorate and Gendarme General Command in 2013. I salute your high council. While the budget of the Security General Directorate and the General Command is being discussed, it is of course impossible to pass without mentioning the reasons and consequences of the increase in separatist terrorism and public relations in our country. Sadly, over the past ten years, more than 1,200 have been martyred because of AKP's choice to negotiate rather than fight terrorism and its surrender to terrorism. I pray for God's mercy to our martyrs. In almost every area, the AKP, which compared the year 2002-2012, wants to lose sight of this disastrous phase and consequences that we have come to in terrorism; in 2002, it refuses to say that the number of martyrs who were 10 when they came to power has risen to the number of 200 · Global Voices today. It is seen that the separatist terrorist organization has increased its actions since the years in which the opening policies began to be implemented, seeing that terrorism can be achieved. The separatist will not succeed in the fight against terrorism in Habur (Habur), Oslo (Imralı) by interviewing terrorists in Oslo (Imralı), by seeing the cause of terrorism as a question of identity, as a matter of small development, and by discussing more democracy, openings or dealing with terrorists instead of dealing with terrorism, by saying that the terrorists' demands would be accepted instead of the area's domination, and by saying that terrorism would not be justified if the weapons were dropped. As a result of AKP's terrorist policies, unfortunately today, there is no security of life and property in our country. There is no longer safe transportation on land in the eastern and southeast of our country. The AKP has been proud to make troop transports from the air as a solution. For the first time, the geography of some cities in our country has been claimed to be under the domain of the PKK terrorist organisation, and some districts have attempted to be taken entirely by the separatist organisation. Mr. Prime Minister Ankara has made it clear in his own words that the Turkish flag should be moved to Turkey during the festivals of Republic Day, but that the Turkish flag should be carried to Hakkari. As a result of the wrong foreign policies the AKP has implemented in the region, Iran, Iraq, Syria have become fully supportive of its terrorist organisation. In this part of my speech, I'd like to address the citizens who are watching us at the beginning of the screen and draw their attention to the following: My fellow citizens, my esteemed nation, AKP rulings, on the one hand, are occupying your agenda with artificial agendas, artificial agendas, perception management methods, in which you will be interested, but you will not benefit from the discussion. On the other hand, the administration and political regime of our country, the unity and integrity of our nation, the regulations that concern the rest of our nation, are being carried out one by one, without a sound word, from the agenda of the House. You're being forced on the agenda of death rows, abortion debates, immunity debates, the Great Century series debates, free clothes arrangement in schools. The regulations, such as Elaziğ, such as Sivas, who don't make cities like Batman, who, according to the village population, make major cities, open the way to autonomy and federalism, disrupt our administrative system, disrupt our governance system, damage our unit and unity. Again, the amendments called defence in the main language are also brought to parliament's agenda, which will in fact result in the demand for Kurdish trial or the adoption of Kurdish as the second official language. Dear lawmakers, it is a simple practice to engage in artificial agendas that will bring nothing to our citizens, as well as a solution to problems. Of course, as the National Movement Party, we express that the country is not well-run, that foreign policy is not good, that the economy is bad, that we don't grow by producing, that the capital doesn't spread to the bottom. Either listen to our findings, our criticisms, or if this country is growing, give him the rights of the police, the gendarmes, the other public officials who need a share of the land. Dear lawmakers, we are witnessing that the 2013 budget is not a budget to solve the problems of our police and our gendarmes when examined. Despite all these negative circumstances, we also benefit from bringing up the problems of our police and carabinieri once again. On the one hand, our police and gendarme are serving under all kinds of dangerous and difficult conditions, while on the other hand, they face problems such as long hours, inadequate autonomy rights, underprivileged social rights, poor pensions, wrong way of rewarding, a level of life that suits their fellow martyrs and their families. While other public staff are working 40 hours a week, the police and gendarmes have the start of their shift, but unfortunately the end is unclear. These officers who work at least seventy-two hours a week do not serve in warm seats like other public officials or like us, carrying serious life risks, in the mountains, in ambush, in the streets, in difficult nature and climate conditions. When we look at the police and the gendarmes' demand for more work, they want to be rewarded for their hard work, which is as lawful as their mother's white milk, and they want to be given the extra work taken by other government officials. All officers receive additional indicators from their eighth month's degree, while those in the safety services class receive this additional indicator from their fourth month's degree. They want this situation that directly affects your pension to be fixed as soon as possible. Again, they would like to see to it that only the heads of the first-class police and the severance of the duties given only to a part of the first-class police chiefs, which were given to all police chiefs in the Security Directorate, according to Act 666, which was issued in the past term. I thought you said equal jobs equal wages, where equal jobs equal? You're even discriminated against the police commissioners. Intelligence, anti-terrorism, organised crime units, police officers, police officers, police station, traffic, headquarters police, they want to put an end to different charges. University-educated police officers, lieutenants, commissioners, captains, police chiefs want to open their way for them to retire in the 1st degree. The sergeant who finished the Police Academy, the commissioners and the captains are no different from the police officer. They want this to be a difference in a way that makes sense. We see thousands or even tens of thousands of young people who want to quit as sergeants, who can't take advantage of that right, who are waiting at public institutions and corporations' doors, who are waiting at the gates of universities, who are waiting at the gates of municipalities, who are looking for solutions to their problems by following lawmakers. Either you don't have that right. Or if they have such rights, make way for them to be taken into public office in the first place, dear lawmakers. Although the election is promised in every election, the loss of their promises when the election is over is deeply upsetting to the members of the police force, the gendarmes. We, the National Movement Party, have become sensitive to bringing up the problems of our police and our gendarmes, and we will continue to be sensitive. We have legal proposals, questions and research proposals on this issue. We want the ruling party to support these arrangements. I wish you all the best of the Security General Directorate and the General Staff's budgets in 2013.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0312par0116	Thank you, Mr. Erdem. As a person, in favor of Izmir MP Aydın Şengül. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Şengül.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0313par0120	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of myself to express my views in the sixth round of the 2013 budgetary talks. On this occasion, I salute you all. Just now, the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and some of my party friends have expressed the necessary numbers. I won't keep you busy with the numbers at this time of night. My dear friends, transport and communication are a work of civilization. Today, the main goal of democracy, the development of the economy, the intercultural embrace is transportation. So we put together hearts through the land road, the airway, the sea road, the railway, the Internet, and now the distances are close. Now let's be intimate. When we looked at the Ministry of Transport before us, it acted as if it were the ministry of non-transmittance. So it's all been done in the past not to transport the country by iron, by sea, by air.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0314par0124	Wasn't Turkey before you?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0315par0125	How did you come and go to Ankara then? What did you come and go to Ankara with? Were you walking to Ankara?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0313par0126	In our day, after 2002, the airway became the way of the people, not of a particular section. You all know how airports used to be. Other than that, you know the roads. We don't forget the long thin roads, the narrow lanes, the back of the trucks, the hours of our journeys. In our time alone, as you all know, there were 16,000 kilometers of double roads. There used to be black trains coming in before he came in. For the first time in our time, our country enjoyed traveling across the city by the fast train. Before us in Turkey, there was longing and despair. So much so that it took place in the songs, the poems, and the bans of hopelessness, and the reunions. We all know these songs: ▪ The black train is late, perhaps never will come.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0316par0129	1930!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0313par0130	Dear friends, mountains, mountains, sacrifice, make way, pass through and see my loved one last time. Today, we have broken through mountains, we are building tunnels.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0317par0131	Put Layla and Meknun, and add the story of Layla and Majnun.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0313par0132	I thought you were getting sick and tired of the roads. I thought you were a rose. The Malatian folk song. There are still hundreds of songs we can count like this.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0318par0133	There's more to be done with kerem and Aslı.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0313par0134	No such longings today, no such reproaches. The roads are no longer obstacles; rather, they are the most fundamental tool of unification. Actually, Mr. Secretary, this culture...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0319par0135	So you're not going to read Farhat and Shirin, or are we not going to listen?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0313par0136	Dear friends, where you can't go today is not yours. There is an understanding that acts on logic and connects even the most remote corners of the land. Now, unfortunately, it is not possible to see that I am acting in the same service, when there are modern-day services in Turkey. Now, I'm going to say a few words about Izmir's transportation activities: you may be able to reach Izmir, from all parts of Turkey, by air, by sea, by land. However, when you reach Izmir, you have serious difficulty reaching a point in Izmir.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0320par0139	Deputy Speaker of Parliament is İzmir MP. He's watching you very carefully.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0313par0140	In İzmir, the mayor wanted to build a subway. He's been in power for decades, trying to build a subway, dear friends. He's given me 16 deadlines for the end of the subway. He finally realized he couldn't finish it, so he stopped giving history.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0321par0141	At least he didn't hand it over to the Department of Transport.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0322par0142	Are you talking about Ankara or Ankara?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0313par0143	We built the cheapest subway line in Turkey without being bored, they say. Dear friends, I ask you, how do you calculate the cost of the endless subway, how do you charge cheaply?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0322par0145	Is Ankara finished?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0323par0146	Is it a carabiner subway or a Goat's Town Hall?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0313par0147	As far as I know, Izmir is concerned about the same subway...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0322par0148	Are you talking about Ankara?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0313par0149	...Mr. Mayor of the Metropolitan has tendered four times. He did it by raising his price in each bid.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0322par0150	I wish you hadn't gone in there.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0313par0151	Yes, and, dear friends, recently in İzmir...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0324par0152	The subways are dark places, you get lost.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0313par0153	I don't have time. The crazy project, Mr. Bigoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0325par0154	Don't freak out!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0326par0155	Look at this!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0327par0156	Aydın, this isn't Izmir, it's the Grand National Assembly of Turkey!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0328par0157	When he realized that he couldn't handle the subway, he invested 250 million lira in the infrastructure; he blocked all channels, streams, and floods. I don't think I'm going to be able to...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0329par0159	Don't forget Samsun, don't forget Samsun. The souls are gone, don't forget Samsun.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0327par0160	Aydın, we're not discussing the budget of İzmir Metropolitan Municipality. We're talking to the Ministry of Transport about the Ministry of Internal Affairs budget right now. Don't!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0328par0161	I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0330par0163	Thank you, Mr. Şengül.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0331par0164	Who announced the crazy projects in 2011?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0330par0165	Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0332par0166	Mr. President, we are here to discuss the budgets of the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Interior. Mr. Speaker's criticisms for both ministry budgets and for us are above our heads, but there's no place here, no place here...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0333par0167	Connected, connected!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0332par0168	... He insulted the mayor of İzmir Metropolitan, and we have to put it on the record here and fix it.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0334par0169	Ankara also spoke about Metropolitan City. Who's going to defend Melih Skycel now, my friends?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0332par0170	He accused the mayor of Izmir Metropolitan of inability, incompetence, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0335par0171	He said that?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0336par0172	That's not what we've heard.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0332par0173	He said he made a mistake in the tenders, and so we have the right to speak of someone who isn't here as an Izmir MP, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0337par0174	You said he's not poor. He's on the record, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0338par0175	He's on the books.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0332par0176	So he picked on our party.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0337par0177	It's on the record, you said he wasn't incompetent. End of story.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0332par0178	Mr. President must have teased our party. Please let us fix this.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0337par0179	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, I stand before you on the basis of the talks of the budget proposal of the relevant institutions of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications in 2013. I salute you all. At the beginning of my words, for Turkey's development, for Turkey's well-being, for the sake of the Turkish nation, for the sake of its well-being, for those who build railroads, for those who build seaports, for those who build airports, for those who build airports, for those who make airways, for those who make little or much of this country's service, for all its service, for all its transportation, sailors, communications, for those who are not alive, for God's mercy. Dear lawmakers, transport and communication are a very important sector. I don't even have to say it. For example, if there's no access, if there's no communication, people will starve to death. Again, without access, without communication, people will die of cold. I mean, you need transportation, communication, even to get through people's lives, their basic lives. This sector increases production, moves the economy, creates jobs, improves production efficiency, eliminates interregional development imbalances, helps spread regional wealth. It also develops global and domestic competition. Why do less developed countries suffer more cost of communication and transportation? Because they have no roads, no access, no access. Here, from the founding of our republic, all governments have worked, worked as hard as they could, and served for the construction of this country so that Turkey will not fall behind the world's competition, the world's fierce race in the world. However, trust and stability are vital for lasting services and for results. Turkey has made its leap in times of trust and stability, and it is unfortunately forced to lose its winnings again in the governments in which weak political wills prevail. In this regard, investment in roads is an investment in the future. An investment in mental pathways, communication is an investment in the future. Investment in the future is an investment in Turkey, in Turkish people. An investment in the future is an investment in reaching the level of modern civilization that the great Ataturk (Aaturk) has pointed to us. Highly valued lawmakers, the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications is a ministry with a very large mandate. In the last 25 minutes, there is no way that our ministry can explain all the details of the services it has done in the last ten years. The speakers from all the parties here have evaluated what has been done, what has not been done. We've written all this down, all of which have answers, but here, I'm afraid I don't have time to answer them one by one. However, some issues include misunderstanding in society and unfair, unrealistic assessments, so I must answer them. Before we go through this chapter, in short, in the last ten years of Turkey, what has changed, what has changed in our people's lives, I want to share it with you. I present to you the 11th budget. On November 19, 2002, I was appointed as one of the two ministers who carried out the same duties in all four governments. So we don't have any problems with the ministry's corporate memory. In the evaluations here, some of our friends sometimes show resentment as we evaluate our present time with 2002. So, this time, I decided to compare our time in person. So, as of the end of 2003, I'll take it. As of the end of 2012, I'd like to share with you where we've come from, where we've come from. From 2003 to today, our investments in transport, telecommunications are 140 billion Turkish liras. 64 percent of these 140 billion have gone to the road, and the other to other parts, so I won't go into the details. In it are 21 billion construction-instructions, non-budget resources, and 119 billion with budgetary resources. We've worked on 3,668 projects in total, and we're still working. Our ongoing projects cost 168 billion Turkish liras. The 82 billion dollars of this is now complete, and the 86 billion is still going on. In one year, the average budget of all departments of our ministry is 17.5 billion. When we divide the remaining amount into this, it's a little over five years without increasing it. Why am I saying this? We looked at the budget figures when we were in office, looked at the investment projects, looked at the deadlines, unfortunately, we saw the average period of completion between 30 and 30 and five years, that's average. I'm telling you honestly, there are projects that will end in two hundred and thirty years, not even that many people's lives; 35 years is a long time in human life. A man wants to see the reward of a work done in the world. So, my dear friends, we started without prioritizing. What does Turkey need? If Turkey is to grow, Turkey must develop major arteries in transport if it will increase its national income by threefold, if it will increase exports, imports, total trade above 300 billion. If he can't develop these arteries from east to west, north to south, this growth can't be export. As a matter of fact, we're looking at the growth figures of the last decade: if Turkey has grown 1 unit, the transport has grown 2 units, the communication has grown 3 units, the growth in transport has always played a role that has raised Turkey's average growth. We see the consequences of that. You wouldn't be able to export this if you didn't have a way, you wouldn't be able to raise this national income from 270 billion to 774 billion if you didn't have a way. You couldn't move a national income per person over $10,000. Of course, our speakers here, thanks to them, have made the evaluations. Every assessment means a lot to us. But unfortunately, some speakers have expressed that in the last decade, there has been no good work done in land roads, airlines, and information communication technologies. I see it as a huge injustice. No matter what they say, you say something, people believe what they see, believe what they live. If someone's going along the Kemerhisar-Post road, like they're going on the highway with the U.K., and they're going down this road without stopping speed at all, from Pozant to Adana, that means a lot's been done on this road. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] When I was a high school student, I always heard this announcement on the radio announcement: "There's work on the Posanti-Coming-Kemerhisar road, and there's a constant call for truckers to keep their wedges, pull ropes, keep their eyes on the beacons and the markers. " If you've gone down that road, you've seen it, we've brought the mountains to our knees, we've crossed the valleys with viaducts. (AK PARTY) We made nine tunnels and 29 viaducts on that road and gave the Turkish people the highest standard of Turkey. Way to go! All service to our people is lawful! [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The budget of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications was 17 per cent in 2003. So, what is it now? 47 percent. That's the name of the service. We got 17 percent, we got 47 percent. So there's a ministry that's already made almost half of the investments made by the central administration. Today, if we've traveled 16,108 kilometers west of Turkey, we've opened more than two and a half miles in 80 years, that's what we've done. In fact, when the speaker said that nothing had been done, you did not pay the publicisation fees, you delay the contractors' money. In a sense, he was able to agree and agree. You can say it's missing, you can say it's wrong, but you didn't do anything. If you come out here and say it, it's unfair. That's not knowingly seeing the truth. I don't think that's the way politics should be. Very valuable lawmakers, of course, are 15 billion Turkish liras to return to our country for the last decade of investments in Turkey's land roads alone. If we hadn't built these divided roads, it would've cost the country 15 billion Turkish dollars from waiting on the road, burning more fuel and putting 2.5 million tons of exhaust gas in the air. In these ways, 15 billion... do you know what time you divide all the expenses into this? Three and a half years. The money we spend on divided roads is 49.5 billion. We're talking about a project that comes back in three and a half years. Is there a profit in that? The road is made not to earn money alone; but to make money, to make trade, to unite people, east and west, to strengthen brotherhood, unity, unity, and kinship. The road is made for civilization, for generations to come, but it's so late that, unfortunately, the road becomes the most profitable investment on its own. That's what Turkey looks like. Today, in 80 years there were 50km of tunnels in Turkey, and in ten years we put 103km of tunnels on it. We're making the world's longest double tunnel in Turkey; the Ovit Mountain Tunnel, we're making two 14 and a half miles [14.6 km] tunnels. Lifeguard Tunnel: In the winter months that connect Hopa to Artvin, in this region where lives and lives have been destroyed, we have halfway through 4,000 meters, and in two years we open it. Mount Kop: Stand there. This nation could not digest the freezing of our martyrdomist who told the Russians to stand there. We make it accessible and accessible by making two four and a half kilometers of tunnels to that gateless mountain of Kop. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The tunnel connecting the mountain tunnel of Ilgaz, the puren tunnel, the skysun, and the marash.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0339par0203	Technology has improved a lot. Sir, technology has developed, of course, but technology is not enough to develop, it needs an understanding that can use that technology, and it needs that technology to produce services. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Sir, we're only 20 percent of the way down. Now, let's leave the land routes aside, and let's get to the railroads.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0340par0207	Mr. Secretary, are you going to talk about the Palu-Young-Mous Iron Road? Look, you've made a good point. Let's get to the Bingol railway, Mr. Secretary. The work of the railways is epic, it's epic, it's epic. You know why I'm telling you? Look, the biggest move on the railways was from the year the republic was founded to 1946. The 3,700km road was built with nails, with picks, with shovels, because a campaign took place under the leadership of the Great Ataturk, but the same Turkey stopped digging in 1951 and left the shovel and the railways to its destiny. From 50 years ago, when we looked at the railways in 2003, the railroads had lost all their resources, their vehicles were over 40 years old, while railways were supposed to carry the burden of this country, and this country had become the burden of the railroads. Here is what the great Ataturk (Aaturk) has said is good and good. It has also been given to us to lift up the country's railways, and to the AK PARTY. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking about the Palu-Young-Mous railway line, Palu-Young-Mush! Don't be so deaf! Dear friends, today, we continue... I know you heard it, you're not answering. ...by the high-speed railway network of the Ottomans... 744 trillion is gone, Mr. Secretary. We're combining 14 major cities that have been the capital of Selsuk for centuries; 35 million people live in these cities; Ankara, Eskişehir, Afyon, Uber, Manisa, Izya, Bursa, Sakarya, Izmit, Yozgat and Sivas. (AK PARTY) Today, in one part of our cities, the railway connection will be finished, and in the other, the high-speed train connection will be completed in a few years. I'm just giving you an example: Without a fast train between Ankara and Eskişehir, 8 per cent of the traffic was done only by old iron, which is now 73 per cent. The fast train makes the cities neighboring; the fast train builds the confidence of the country's people. It is the name of a country in the world today that runs a fast train in the eighth and sixth place in Europe. When the U.S. Transport Minister arrived, I invited him to take the train from Ankara to Eskişehir. After taking the train, America is a great country, world leader, but I want to share this with you: there is no such train path. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) There is an AK PARTY government that passes America, which turns the 50-year-old Turkish man's long-speed longing for a train into reality, and the people have power.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0341par0221	Mr. Secretary... please thank Mr. Secretary, Oktay Vural, and Faik Öztrak. Dear friends, for a hundred years... If you truly trust, thank Oktay Vural, Faik Oztrak. Mr. Haydar, I'm running out of time. Thank Faik Oztrak. And Oktay Vural.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0342par0226	Please go ahead, don't talk to each other, Mr. Secretary, go ahead. At the beginning of my words, I thanked all those who put a stone upon a stone for this country. You were probably out back then, so don't take my time now so I can talk things over. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Well, dear friends now...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0343par0230	Mr. Secretary, you can't stop corruption with applause. Now, friend, if you have a claim to corruption, bring it here. You're looking at the last man you'll accuse of corruption. Here you go, let's go! That's it! [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] For ten years, I've been serving by the nose, investing 200 billion dollars in Turkey, paying for it all, that's all I'm saying. You can't accuse me of corruption with such crude words, vague words. It's not rough, I'm telling you, I'm talking 744 trillion, Mr. Secretary. The corrupter and the corrupter are also low. He is the lowest man who has ever violated the rights of this country and the rights of an orphan. I'm being very clear here. Now, friends, you've been in the square a lot with these random accusations of corruption, empty files, but you've got your answer. The citizen said 34.5 is not enough, he said 41, he said 47, he said 50, he said 50, and he carried the AK PARTI back to power. If there was no service behind this, if there was no work behind it, if there was no power to worry about the problem of the citizen behind it, I ask you what it would have been like if it weren't for world leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Speak to him, Minister, speak to him. Don't always hide behind votes. I'm talking 744 trillion, Mr. Secretary. Mr. President, if you give me time, I'll give you all the answers. There's no question I can't answer, that's all I'm saying.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0344par0241	You can't just yell, you can't get angry, you can't talk.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0345par0242	Mr. Secretary, did you or did you not sell the TELEKOM?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0344par0243	You haven't answered our questions.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0346par0244	Is that a lie, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0347par0245	Mr. Lightning, your time is up. Thank you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Interior Minister İdris Naim Şahin. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Peace and Democracy Party MPs leave the General Assembly Hall]] Congressmans, please, let's just calm down and be a little quieter. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0348par0253	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute you with love and respect at the moment when the final account of 2011 and the budget bill of 2013 are discussed. If you'll excuse me, I'd just like to thank our Minister of Transport, who, on behalf of our government, is defending the budget of his ministry. Every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man, every man. As 75 million Turkish nations have taken advantage of this country, every guest of ours is taking advantage of these fine works, and I'd like to continue on those beautiful roads, highways, railways, airports, and airlines before I get out of there while I'm at it. But this goes on, and this goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Minister, I thank you and your team very much. Today, in the morning, our President of Afghanistan made an early trip to the province of Sivas. We train 500 Afghan police candidates there, we train them in the second term, and we successfully inform Afghan police that the Turkish police...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0349par0256	How much al-Qaeda...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0348par0257	...successful education. [[Noises]] But, Sivas, we have a full staff, I'm going to start a new school...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0349par0260	Al Qaeda, Taliban, and their Muslim brothers...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0348par0261	I can record you there. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, please, I must ask you for peace. Because we're in a very important meeting, and I'm going to start by apologizing to you, my fellow lawmakers, and to my fellow saints, for that I've been on the stand to offer a very systematic ministry activity, but I don't know if they're hiding, or if they're sitting under the desks. We need to check it out.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0349par0264	They're afraid of you...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0348par0265	I will also have to respond to assessments of the main opposition party's main opposition party, especially on the activities of our Ministry, rather than to talk systematicly about their assessments, which some of its MPs have developed inadvertently, without basis. Members of parliament, our sense of service in the areas in which we serve as ministers and in which we are responsible, the work we've done in the last year, and the results we've received in the past year, are basically living in your everyday lives, our beloved nation is experiencing this. In order for our nation to live in peace and to recognize our nation's civic services, the virtue of being an individual, our ministry is doing everything in its power with all its units, especially our security units. We conduct security services by the hands of our own police headquarters, the General Command of the Gendarmes, and the Coast Guard Command. Our most basic mission is the security service, and our principles as we offer this service are the rule of law, clarity, transparency and accountability, and the highest level of public satisfaction. It's not torture, it's not injustice, it's not illegal, it's not pirate listening. Respected lawmakers, we're always weighing in on preventive measures in the fight against crime, and we're still putting on weights. In our 81 counties, community-sponsored police and gendarme practices have been carefully and successfully implemented throughout our country.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0350par0269	Pepper spray match.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0348par0270	We're also working as examples of developing technical and administrative capacity, developing modern criminal labs, establishing crime in the world's standard, and identifying the criminal on objective terms of evidence. Today, 11 police officers and four gendarme crime labs, cited as examples to the world, continue to operate. Again, our MOBESE practices continue in our 81 counties and many counties. That's how we shed light on many cases, many crimes, and many criminals. Again, as a communication system, we have established a communications system in our gendarmes and a system in which the same system is applied to the coast guard, and we are conducting our work with this system. Honourable lawmakers, planned operations and criminal organizations, organised crime organizations, have been neutralized, thus strengthening our citizen's trust in the state. With domestic violence and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, our ministry continues to work together and very carefully and meticulously. Honourable lawmakers, in order to produce more effective and quality services, we are constantly making legal and administrative arrangements, making the utmost effort with the resources of our state and nation to meet the building, equipment and other needs of our organization. In the organization, the employment of qualified personnel, especially in security services, is one of our priorities, and we work with 85 percent of our law enforcement, highly trained staff. I'd like to say that the same change in quality has been carried out by our other law enforcement officers, the gendarmes, and the coast guard, and its rate has increased. Next year, in 2013, we plan to recruit 12,440 graduate police officers from our police universities of applied sciences, including 8,400 and 4,040 other courses, and this education continues. Honourable MPs, as I have just told you, we also train other countries as Turkish police, gendarmes and armed forces. Our agencies are provided with the resources of our government, including tools and equipment, aircraft, medium-sized helicopters, medium-sized, medium-sized helicopters. Again, our gendarmes and police are supported by what we refer to as light armoured cobra vehicles, ▪kirpi vehicles. We're also trying to get our Coast Guard Agency to be equipped with coast guard boots and again search and rescue ships and boost their power. Honourable lawmakers, in order for our citizens to live a life of peace and security, free of fear and anxiety, as the main and fundamental duty of our security services, the public's peace-deprived, fear-and-responsive crime, and this struggle is being waged. In all our provinces, we have all the efforts to establish street domination, area domination, and also our intelligence agencies to ensure street security, country security. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, one of the most effective areas that we've fought as governments is the fight against organised crime organizations that undermine the bond of trust between state and citizen, and all kinds of trafficking crimes. Through the work we've done, any illegal structures that decomposing society have been discouraged, and many criminal operations aimed at disrupting public order have been avoided. A 2012-2015 Anti-organised Crime Action Plan was drafted and implemented with the participation of institutions involved in the fight against organised crime to make it systematic and effective. With the success of our security units in the fight against drug trafficking, our country has been largely removed from its transit state and international criminal organizations have begun to seek new routes for themselves. Many international platforms and reports are praised for our country's success. Dear friends, terrorist organisations provide substantial financial support for drug trafficking and immigration trafficking. As a ministry, the PKK, which has recently been divided, has been heavily and heavily studied in order to prevent the funding source provided by the Kurdish terrorist group, and has been severely obstructed by the separatist terrorist organisation's funding for the drug trade. For example, in the past months, in July and October, the terrorist organization, which grew Indian cannabis in Diyarbakır, acquired over a billion dollars in revenues from the drugs it acquired, was hit with a major blow. The separatist terrorist organization and its extensions don't put rocks on rocks in this country, they don't put stones on rocks, they don't make 1 meter of roads, they don't plant 1 acre of farms. The job is to destroy, to kill, to shed blood, but they do one thing, and they help build it, and that's to plant the crevices. Got to hand it to you, they're planting Indian cannabis, they're fighting hard to make it. BDP, I've been waiting for him to come in here one day and talk about the escaped Indian hemp, but I think it's a futile wait. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we've been fighting domestic and foreign-backed terrorist organizations who have been trying to fight terrorism for years towards the indivisible integrity of the state and its nation, its constitutional order. As a government, we consider our national unity and unity, our country's indivisible integrity, our state's support and the protection of our unitary structure as our top priority. We know from past experience that fighting terrorism isn't easy, that it takes a multidimensional and comprehensive struggle to get out of this mess, and we're conducting our work in an integrated struggle. Our government has taken every precaution, especially security, to strengthen our country's unity and unity, by mobilising all means in the fight against terrorism. Together with operational activities in the fight against terrorism, we also focus on prevention and information efforts aimed at dehydrating the resources that feed terrorism and eliminating the causes. Operating activities against the separatist organisation, which has been increasing violence in the wake of recent insurgency, are actively and successfully under way. As Ministry of Interior, our fight against the PKK, the KCK separatist terrorist organization and other separatist organisations will continue with determination, with our security forces' usual sacrifice and superior sense of service. Until terrorist organizations can't act, blood can't be shed, and can't kill people, it will be carried out by our security forces and by our government until there are no last terrorists on the soil of this country. (APPLAUSE) As I thank our security forces, the elements of our forces of land, air and marine forces, the police and the Coast Guard, and all who have ever served in these organizations, I ask once again for the mercy of our beloved martyrs, who have received the mercy of the great God, and I remember our heroic veterans with longing and gratitude. Dear friends, the package of economic and social measures is also implemented in the fight against terrorism. BELDES packages, for example, are the most important examples. On the other hand, our families and veterans are being closely cared for, and as both ministries, we conduct important legal studies and practices on this matter. Finally, the scope of business in the public has been expanded for our fellow martyrs and veterans, one to two, with your precious votes and approval. The application regulation was issued on 11 December.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0351par0287	Do you still have Kadir Believer's coat, Minister?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0348par0288	Dear friends, in the fight against terrorism, the state of the Republic of Turkey, our government and our security forces continue to fight the militants in front of it, in pursuit of it, in all legal and technical measures. This struggle is based on a weapon against the weapon, instead of an economic struggle, which is a social struggle based on its location. The fight against terrorism is not just the actions of terrorists, terrorists, militants in the field. The fight against terrorism is all support in the country and in the world. It's harder to determine when this support is given by whom, sometimes more difficult to capture, identify militants of the terrorist organization, and sometimes it's impossible for us to know who's behind us, who's behind us, who's behind us -- what's behind us -- what's behind us -- what's the plot, what's the slander. But what is revealed -- what is written, what is drawn, what is said, including what is said from this stand -- is enough to give yourself away. In the fight against terrorism, dear friends, we can pose a terror threat from a 300-60-degree angle -- from anywhere and everyone -- in the fight against terrorism. We have to be in the eye of terrorism. As security forces, as a nation, as MPs. Dear friends, I'd like to make it clear to you that there are some issues regarding the terrorist issues and other issues mentioned by the lawmakers who have just taken this opportunity to speak on the stand. Mr. Kesimoglu, Turkish police, once again, have never, in any way, gone to the United States authorities to brief them on Ergenekon. Mr. Kesimoğlu and Mr. Serindağ thank you for your sensitivity to our police department's rights, and I thank you for the same thing that our other friends, Mr. Oğuz Dan Koksal, have expressed. Our government has made major changes so far to improve the wages of members of our security services. For example, the price of a police officer, which was $665 in 2002, is now paid at $2.349. The rate of increase is 250 percent, and is that enough? It's not, but it's given by the means of this country.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0352par0294	But for 11 years...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0348par0295	I'd like to say that ignoring it and having provocative conversations over it is incompatible with compassion.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0353par0296	Retirement pensions...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0348par0297	Mr. Serindağ and some of our friends, who have expressed the same subject, have reported the disappearance of 27,000 children in this country written by some newspaper and...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0354par0298	There aren't any newspapers left, they're all on your side.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0348par0299	...to be spoken by some of our MPs on that false news. I'm making it clear, I'm explaining.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0355par0300	Explain!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0348par0301	Dear lawmakers, in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 -- in the four-year period -- have reported and assessed the disappearance of 27,000 children in our country. This is true in the sense that between 2008 and 2011, 27,000 children were lost. So far it's true, but after that it's another truth. These missing children were found after they were recorded. 27,000 children were linked to the missing persons report and later found. I'm saying it now, and I'm declaring it, 27 times the number of children found after they disappeared. So, what's the number of missing children? As of today, the number of missing children is 1,142. News on this subject and the words of repeaters of this news are a radical lie.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0356par0303	Bravo!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0348par0304	I don't know, from now on, will someone get up and apologize? We don't expect thanks, but I'm hoping to tell lies to our saintly nation and repeat that lie story, and you'll get an apology. In the same way, Mr Kemal Ekinci (Mr. Kemal Ekinci)'s assessment of the stockpile of pepper gas is another radical lie. Pepper spray's normal shelf life is four years old. We're not unpredictable enough to stockpile four-year-old pepper spray for 18 years. If that's what we did, you shouldn't complain about it, because in the fifth year, those gases will be ineffective. Mr. Serindağ, four preliminary inspections of the Kayseri Metropolitan Municipality have been conducted regarding zoning legislation. Mr. Serindağ, 33 preliminary reviews have been conducted regarding İstanbul Mayor Kadir Topbaş Bey, and after 33 preliminary examinations...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0357par0307	It's all a radical lie!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0348par0308	...30 have not been granted permission to investigate, and 2 have been granted permission to investigate, and 5 questions are being investigated by the judicial authorities. The warrant for an investigation, which has not been granted, has to do with an incident in Adalar district. Mr. Farsakoglu and Mr. Topbaş have been asked not to be allowed to investigate as a result of the investigation that involved both of them.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0357par0309	Explain the cartel, Mr. Secretary, the cartel... Explain to me how Sevki Yilmaz was scolding you!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0348par0310	Mr. Serindağ was taken to a preliminary examination by our Ministry of the Event in Suzutsu Ankara on 7 February 2012; the prosecutor's office filed a report; the prosecution decided to remove it from the process. Meanwhile, the work has begun to be destroyed by the construction that we don't approve of. Mr. Serindağ, your assessment of our Ministry's driver's license, staff assignments on merit, you have a partial right to this. Here's the thing: you were governor in this country until May 2008, when you came to the active governorship and then to the central governorship. That's right, so we may have some mistakes at the driver's license point, as in your predecessor's example (Applause from the AK PARTY rows): May 28, 2008, where you are now a member of the party's headquarters, the general secretary of that day, and the question: what's the political atmosphere like in the Bolu? ▪
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0358par0312	Is this a wiretap?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0359par0313	Rested, rested.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0348par0314	Governor: It's not so easy for you to turn yourself in, but it's not right for you to turn yourself in. The question is: is there any personnel material that can provide a political structure that takes decisive, careful, political will behind it?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0360par0315	Why don't you tell Cemil Flower and Recep Tayyip Erdogan?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0348par0316	The question is: How do you see the Bolu, especially politically? (Our governor, the governor of the state, is the basis of the Republican People's Party; especially in municipal elections, we see CHP's vote rising. If there's a serious organization in Bolu, there'll be a rally on behalf of the CHP, and he may be able to take the election.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0361par0317	The AKP also has governors, a lot of them, if you look at them.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0348par0318	Of course, there are 2009 elections, I don't know if the Republican People's Party has taken Bolu? We need to look at the local authorities.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0362par0319	Why don't you tell Cemil Flower and Recep Tayyip Erdogan?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0348par0320	Yeah. So, as the governor was without a license at the Ministry, he also showed a lack of a license at the political headquarters, which he could get. He gave hope to the director general.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0363par0321	What did you do with the Bolu City investigations? Why don't you sign them?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0348par0322	Mr. Musa Pine, I was going to come to the Gendarme Anthem, but I'm finishing with the words of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. On November 1st 1929, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the bench is a law-enforcement army of humility, sacrifice and abdication, always loyal to the homeland, the nation and the republic. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Our gendarmes are the army of the law, our police are the establishment, and our coast guard are the sons of Barbaros. For the safety of this country, we're all working and we're gonna keep working. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'll come to BDP with questions and answers. With all due respect, I want to thank you for your support in our budget.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0364par0329	Your ratings are too low.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0365par0330	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0366par0331	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0365par0332	Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0366par0333	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary pretended to answer my questions for exactly five minutes by mentioning my name, but he made a false statement. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make this right.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0365par0334	Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0366par0338	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, dear lawmakers, in the presence of all of you, let me make this very clear... [[AC PARTY ACCEPT THE VOICE]] Now, look, I have friends who know me, and you have friends who know the Minister, and you have friends who are among you -- Mr. Secretary here -- let them go, let them examine our sense of duty, let them come to us, let the Minister know that he's made a very big mistake, he's the first. Secondly...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0367par0343	Did you make the speech or not?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0366par0344	Wait a minute... I want to talk to you about the concrete thing he's talking about. Wait a minute, wait a minute... that was very said, the other day Mr. Bulent Arinc said so. Look, I've never once been governor of your administration, but I've been governor of the trilateral coalition...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0368par0346	I've seen it, I've seen it.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0366par0347	...and my governorship continued. For four years I was governor of the 40s, and four years I was governor of Bolu. Among you are the 40s, and the Bolu MPs. Go and ask the people of Bolu, and the people of Centipede. Another question...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0369par0350	Please remain calm and listen.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0366par0351	Yes, after I arrived at the headquarters, I had a chat with Mr. Commander-in-Chief of the Republican People's Party at the time, and I'm very proud of this conversation, no matter what you say. (CHP turns to applause) There was an investigation of the issues that we discussed there. [[Noises from AKP rows]] Look, listen, listen... Look, Mr. Secretary put two inspectors in charge first. Those investigators couldn't find a criminal element. The Minister didn't like that report, he sent two other inspectors. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They reported the same thing -- my friend, the legislator, is here -- they couldn't find the criminal element either. (AKP rows) But the Minister said it was missing.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0370par0357	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0366par0358	Sir, this has been a lot of polemics. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to explain this. I'd like to finish my words, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0370par0359	Complete your promise, and the matter becomes clear. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0366par0362	Thank you. Now, look...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0370par0365	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please... Congressmans, you are most welcome, please, don't act like this about the way I conduct and the way I do things here. Listen quietly to the speakers. One...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0371par0368	Be neutral!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0370par0369	I'm being neutral. In order to clarify something, I've given the Congressman one minute more time for an explanation that you'll always need. Please...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0372par0371	Give me five minutes, five minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0370par0372	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0373par0373	Congressmans, now, please listen to the Minister. There are four reports in the archives of your Ministry on this matter, four of them. Maybe you don't know, but I do. There are four reports there, read the four reports. In the four reports, what did the property inspectors say, what do you say in your latest evaluation report? You must have tagged people there, according to their opinion, according to their beliefs. Go look, Mr. Secretary, go look. My dear friends, look, I'm saying something serious.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0374par0376	Come on, don't talk to them!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0375par0377	No proof, no evidence!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0373par0378	You don't understand! I'm saying something serious.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0375par0379	Watch your language! You're the one who doesn't understand.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0373par0380	Look, the Minister is sitting there.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0375par0382	That's not what anyone in their right mind talks about!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0376par0384	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0373par0385	We haven't done anything we can't account for.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0376par0386	Mr. Serindağ, thank you, please take your seat.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0373par0387	We've always served on our own terms...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0376par0388	Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0373par0389	And we've always paid for it.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0376par0390	Can you hear me, Mr. Serindağ? Take your seats, please.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0373par0391	It's the one sitting there who should be ashamed. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0377par0394	That's what the Prime Minister will say.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0378par0395	Congressmans, please remain calm. It's hard for us to continue our negotiations when we act like this. Here you are, Mr. Kesimoglu.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0379par0397	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary mentioned my name in his speech, so I was given the right to defend myself.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0378par0398	What did he say, sir, against you?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0379par0399	I told him that the Turkish police had been briefing at the American Embassy; he said he hadn't, and he said it was a radical lie. He said it was all about our claims. I want to make this clear.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0378par0400	Here you are, Mr. Kesimoglu.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0379par0403	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you. An unbecoming speech was given to the minister of a republican government. Opposition MPs claim it's a radical lie. The label is hanging, and I certainly don't accept it. I suggest to the Minister that his seat meets its requirements. Because, Mr. Secretary, when you were sitting in that chair, the police offices were robbed. Three houses were broken into in police residences, car stolen from the parking lot. The thieves were caught after leaving the vehicle. The Minister will go and guard his quarters. I can't imagine the state of the citizen. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In ten years, 320 law enforcement officers committed suicide in your reign. Mr. Secretary has just stated that he's been training 500 Afghan police on this bench. Leave the Afghan police and you take care of the Turkish police, Mr. Minister, why do 320 people end their lives with their own hands? You investigate this, cheer them up, support them. [[Applause from CHP rows]] When you entered the tent of the people who had suffered an earthquake, you lived in the palace! You don't say "gell." You go to the families you're making fun of, you apologize to them, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0380par0410	Have you ever been to Van?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0379par0411	The pepper gas is organic, harmless to human health. You said Teaan Birben, but Metin Lokumcu and other citizens lost their lives from that pepper spray. You apologize to the families of the people who died of that pepper spray, Mr. Secretary. A mule lost his life with four citizens in the terrorist attack, Mr. Secretary ruled out the lives of four citizens, and stated that the state would ask the mule's account. You go apologize to those families. And, Mr. Secretary, you didn't get into the MKYK in the last convention, you had problems sitting in that chair, which you can tell by the applause. In my opinion, you go in front of the Prime Minister, do a flip, show him how much you love him, protect your seat.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0381par0415	Thank you, Mr. Kesimoglu. Yes, Mr. Hamzacebi, what is your request?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0382par0419	Mr. President, the Minister of Transport has given a wide range of information on the agenda or the Ministry's activities. However, what the Istanbulians, the Chileans, were very curious about, perhaps all Turkey was curious about, remained short of information, I think it was not enough time. I'd like to remind the Minister of that.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0381par0420	Ask him in the QA, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0382par0421	Sir, the thing is, is...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0383par0422	Ask him in question-answer.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0382par0423	Sir, I'd like to remind you that last Tuesday, in a sea accident in Chile, the sinking of a foreign flagship led to the disappearance of seven crew members. A rescue boat bound for the Coast Guard, which was headed to rescue him, was smashed to pieces because the sea was too surging and the waves were drifting. The captain of this ship, Cemil Captain, has lost his life, and another man named Turgay Yellowsbane has lost his life. Their funerals were taken and buried by their families. Two people, one fisherman, Faith Akgun and Coast Guard personnel, Mehmet Youth's bodies have yet to be found, and they have not yet been found. How has the search been and how has it been? That's what I want to know. Second, is there a weakness in the rescue? I mean, in that weather, the rescue boat...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0384par0426	Mr. President, they can ask you that in the QA, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0385par0427	Mr. Hamzacebi, this matter has been expressed. Mr. Secretary, I assume you'll answer that in the QA because we're moving on to that part now.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0386par0429	Is there something wrong with that? I'd like to remind the Minister of that. Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a brief statement before we go to the question-answer part.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0385par0431	Well, why don't you two be clear on that for a second, please? Here you go. Thank you. Mr. President, on December 4th, a ship with a heavy sea flag on the side of Chile of the Black Sea entrance of Bosphorus, a river-type ship sank, and although no warning was taken, the Coast Guard Bosphorus Station immediately took off the radar, arrived at the scene and rescued four Ukrainian personnel alive, one of them missing. When the same boat reported that there might be new survivors on the sea again, this time he asked Chile, who was at a shorter distance, to remove the identical boat. Since the weather was not good, the captain said he couldn't leave, they called in the backup shift, and the captain who was called out took his staff, and that happened. No doubt it will be revealed in the administrative and judicial investigations, whether it was a flaw or a flaw or a mistake. For one thing, we have to express it. I ask God's mercy on our captain, our sailor, who lost his life in the event. I also visited their house, Ahmet Kasarcı, and the sailor survived. Cemil, a fisherman who tried to save the Captain, unfortunately let him in because the waves hit him, and he's missing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Similarly, the other sailor is wanted. The search continues nonstop. Of course, the necessary work will be done until we find it under sea conditions. I want to express it. Once again, I pray for God's mercy. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Against you...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0387par0441	Mr. President, wait a minute, I'd like to present... I want to add something. No captain can be forced into any mission at sea, in the air. The captain's final decision. If the captain says I'm not leaving, it's not the captain's decision on planes or on ships, it's the international rule. Therefore, it is good to know. In any case, the result of the forensic and administrative investigation will be clear.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0385par0443	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0387par0444	Mr. President, sir, Idris Şahin just mentioned a phone call. There is a talk between Erdogan and Cemil Cicek, and he has the text. Cemil Ciceke says to him, "Have you spoken to Zapsu? Yes, I have." Four and a half...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0388par0446	Mr. President, what does this have to do with our budget, sir? I mean, in what way...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0387par0447	Explain these things to me! Come on, explain it to me!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0389par0448	Now, Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0387par0449	What did Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Cemil Cicek negotiate? Come on, tell me!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0390par0450	Come on, tell me!
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0389par0451	Mr. Young, we thank you for what you said. [[Continue]] 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 1) General Directorate of Highways 2013 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Highways 2011 Central Management Terms 1) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Undersecretary of Maritime, Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Final Account for 2011 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) Police General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Police General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Gendarme General Command Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget 2013 2) Coast Guard Command Final Account for Central Management 2011 Against Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0391par0488	Mr. President, I would like to welcome the respected Turkish nation's MPs to share my personal views at the end of their sixth round of round talks with the Central Management Budget Act in 2013. I salute your high council. The Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications, which we discussed on its budget today, was established by the Court of Law No. 655. In accordance with the law, the provisions shall be issued under the authority of the government under the Article 91 (91) of the Constitution. The Commission and the General Assembly meet first and immediately and adopt the law. In accordance with Article 91 of the Constitution, Law 655 issued under the Law Law, again presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on the day it was published in the seventh article of Article 91, the commission and the General Assembly are first and immediately discussed, but this has not been done. This ministry, which has been established in accordance with the Constitutional Law Code No. 655, is legally a controversial Ministry of the Agency's Law, and we are negotiating a budget that will give the Ministry more than 10 billion euros to spend on it. We still have memories of how the Turkish Airlines in this ministry's field ended the work of their strikers. Responding to the employee's demand for a raise, Turkish Airlines sponsored many sports clubs and leagues in Spain, Britain, Europe. Turkish Airlines didn't give their employees a raise, but he was able to give millions of dollars to the Spanish child, the British child, the French child, the humas of Europe. Our demands for information on this matter have been rejected on the grounds that 51 per cent of Turkish Airlines is in the private sector. Turkey's Airlines is an institution the government boasts on every occasion, where 51 per cent of it is private. Now I ask the government: If Turkish Airlines is a private institution, why are you bragging? Why are you showing off with Turkish Airlines? What do you care about Turkish Airlines? If it isn't, why are you hiding the millions of dollars you gave to the Spanish child, the American child, the British child, from us? Turkish Airlines aircraft does not include newspapers that do not write in favour of AKP. It's called "Flying." But reading newspapers like the New Age, the Middle East, is not allowed on the plane. In Osmaniye, my constituency district, Kadirli-Sumbas, Kadirli-Andır, Kadirli-Osmaniye, Düzçi-Osmaniye are still unfixed. The 10km of landway networking between the Dizechi and the Ant will give more than 100,000 people comfort. It's not demeaning or being looked at. On the other hand, Homeland Security's primary responsibility is the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Our 28 years of terror with the AKP in the decade were not part of the 61st Government Programme. The government did not participate in its programme because it preferred to negotiate rather than to fight the terrorist. The Ministry of Interior should be congratulated in this regard. The Prime Minister has reserved nine pages for the fight against terrorism, which he did not participate in in the government programme, while giving a budget presentation speech on the commission. As a matter of fact, a number of civil-military bureaucrats are trying to fight terrorism. Therefore, it attracts the reaction of terrorists and their political extensions. The prime minister takes compliments from the head of terrorists and their political extensions, making compliments on each other. Today, separatist terrorism is still the first problem of the Turkish state, but in accordance with the demands of separatist terrorism, AKP governments carry Turkey into a multi-lingual, multi- capital, multinational future. Both the prime minister and the deputy prime minister can now make that clear. The Turkish nation is trying to divide 36 ethnic groups by AKP governments, starting with its Kurdish brothers. The terrorist organization continues its bloody actions and instructs the government. The Prime Minister has surrendered to the terrorist organization and its leader. The PKK has taken the prime minister into custody. The terrorist organization has taken control of some areas, has been able to do ID checks, and in some places, domestic security personnel in uniform can't be seen on the street. The Prime Minister, however, would lose his vote for the extraordinary state of conduct, which should be declared in the case of widespread violence in Article 120 of the Constitution, and in the case of serious corruption of public order. I mean, Mr. Prime Minister, I don't want to lose votes, but the soldier, the police, the ranger, is a martyr. He has an understanding. The working conditions, rights, and additional indicators of the police department fighting terrorism are still unresolved. Still, the rights of all employees of the Interior Ministry, particularly their property managers, are below according to those who have done similar tasks. On these grounds, I express our opposition to the government's budget and salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0392par0501	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Moving on to QA. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0393par0504	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, 35km from Mersin Görne to Aslanköy has not been completed and has been renovated for 5km of the road, despite the promise. It's been promised that the road will be redeveloped by being reduced to 30 or 35 kilometers. Do you have any investment plans related to this method? The 2013 Mediterranean Olympics are seven months away and will be held in Mersin. When will the construction of the Tarsus-Newce Airport be completed and where is it? My third question is: the price of land that was nationalized during the construction of land roads is not paid to our citizens. Do you have any work on paying for the victim? I'm also going to ask the Home Secretary, what has been the fate of the public officials who have been kidnapped by the terrorist organization so far? How many civil servants do the organization still have? What kind of work do you intend to do to save these? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0394par0510	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0395par0512	Thank you, Mr. President. My questions are for the Minister of Transport. The village-diving road construction has turned into a snake story. Do you really think you can finish this road? If you're thinking of ending it, will you also let us know when it's going to end? Again, the intersection of the entrance to our Yathan district is also the intersection of Milas and Bodrum. It's a very funny intersection by world standards. Do you intend to reform this intersection? Again, will we be able to see the construction end on these double roads that you're so proud of? To this day, I have come from one lane many times because of the roadwork from Muğla to Ankara. Will I one day be able to come out of Laugla and walk the divided road without seeing a roadwork sign until Ankara? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0396par0517	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0397par0519	Mr. Minister, Petty Officer Abdullah Söçeklar and Special Sergeant's Mind Koç, who was kidnapped by the terrorist organization, has been in the hands of the terrorist organization for 523 days, Kenan Erenoglu, who is a trustee, 489 days and has been in the hands of police officer Nadir Özgen for 460 days. On 16 November 2012, media reported that 16-year-old O surrendered. In his statement in the police, the terrorist, codenamed "K," stated that our children, who had not been heard from for nearly a year and a half, had been held in the PKK's Zap camp and were subjected to psychological torture. Is it true that the PKK's statements mentioned in the article are true? If that's true, what kind of work have you done to save our children? Or have these children, who have been in the hands of a terrorist organization for as long as 522 days, been abandoned to their fates? Why didn't you make your interview for the election in Oslo for the children of this country? Mr. Minister of Transport, Sapanca-Post Road...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0396par0522	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0398par0524	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask our Home Secretary. It's a good practice to reward successful staff at the Police General Directorate, but do you plan to give a large share of people like the head of the department, who are usually top-level governors, to the lower level, to the police station, and to the staff at the police station? Again, do you plan to arrange the hours of the police? You've been bringing up the police's rights for years, encouraging the police. Are you going to say, "Works are still going on"? Do you plan to make arrangements for the transfers of the victims of the spouse's condition? Also, there is a variety of degrees in the department as a variety of degrees, college students, university graduates, and civil service, which is the subject of duality and litigation among the staff. That way, there's about 4,000 cases on the agenda. Do you think you can fix this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0399par0529	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0400par0531	My question, Mr. Minister of Transport: I asked last year's budget talks at Giresun, my constituency district, your party's promise of elections, the Curibel Tunnel. Although I took the 5th place, you did not respond because of the lack of time. Are the southern counties of Giresun, Alucra, Çanoluk and Şebinkarahisar, and the neighbouring provinces, Erzincan and Sivas, in the 2013 investment programme of your Ministry of the Egribel Tunnel, which will facilitate access to the port of Giresun? Also, the K documents that were taken are being cancelled. Do you take back earned rights? I'm saying it's a matter of thousands of people being victimized, so thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0399par0533	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Mr. Aksinger...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0401par0535	Thank you, Mr. President. It's the first time the Minister actually spoke in such an interesting manner. I'm amazed at him, too, actually. You haven't answered the questions I asked about Turkish TELEKOM. It is important that the Internet is really open to competition. A disaster actually happened here a while ago. A minister on this bench about illegal wiretaps has made it clear to everyone. In fact, when this is a valid subject for everyone, we've often warned it about BTK, and we'll continue to warn it from now on. It's been known that in the last two years, various airlines have been unable to function, private airlines. Their debt to state airports and institutions such as Eurocontrol is unrefunded, and even workers' severance pay is unrefundable. Do you have an action plan and any internal work on it? Anadolu Jet is based in Ankara...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0402par0542	Thank you, Mr. Aksinger. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0403par0544	Mr. Minister, the Adana Metropolitan Mayor, who has been elected by the people of Adana for five years, has just been suspended in his first year by the Minister of Interior before you, and is still in the open. Investigations, which have been suspended, have been brought back from a court of law, which results in lack of surveillance or acquittal. The mayor of Adana Metropolitan has not been convicted of any of the cases that have been filed so far, and has been acquitted of all of them. Isn't the punishment for Adana, and for Aytaç Durak, over? Will the will to do this to the Ministry of the Interior be acquitted by the public! Can this subject be paid? Under Article 19 of the Anti-Terror Law, is there a regulation for awards to successful workers in the fight against terrorism? How many people have been awarded a reward for the success of counterterrorism under this law that took effect 21 years ago? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0402par0546	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0404par0548	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Home Secretary, Mr. Secretary, you're building very good government housing across the country. The buildings in the districts of Çororı and Çerkeköy are very old and are suffering from population growth in the ministry. Will you take these counties among the government mansions next year? Besides, the Çorı district police are short-staffed, so are you going to make reinforcements? Do you think you'll be taking advantage of your fellow martyrs from the VAT and VAT discount on the purchase of zero-kilometre vehicles? I'm asking the Minister of Transport: there's a lot of trouble with postal services in Tekirdağ district, especially in Çorı district. Even a letter from downtown only reaches its owner on the fifteenth day, and I've been there. I don't want to...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0405par0552	Thank you, Mr. Belen. Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0406par0554	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Minister of Transport. 10km of Castamon East Environment Road was tendered in 2007, but why is it still incomplete? The Çanrı-Castamono has been working for two years on a five-km divided road on the way out of the state road, and when will it be completed? Is it also authorized to sell the property of Telekom, the company that buys it after it has been specialized? Is the proceeds from these resales in the treasury or in the company's vault? Another question, Mr. Home Secretary. What is the legal status of the gendarmes and village rangers who served as security in the countryside after the Metropolitan Law?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0407par0559	Thank you, Mr. Chanar. Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0408par0561	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I ask our Minister of Transport: When will you implement this project in the attempt to take the railway from the centre of Elazığ (Elazig) to the south of Mt. Mary? Second: When are you going to build the unfinished Agha Bridge? Did you put in a grant, how much did you put in? I'm asking this question on behalf of Isparta MP Nevzat Korkmaz. When are you going to make a double route to the Isparta-Anthalia Deremouth road? When are you going to keep your promise to the Isparta? I'm asking Mr. Home Secretary. Do you have an arrangement for the rights of the Police General Directorate and the General Command staff? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0409par0567	Thank you, Mr. Erdem. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Lightning first, please. Will you speak first, Mr. Hawk?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0410par0570	If you'll excuse me, I'll answer.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0409par0571	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0410par0572	Mr. President, I'm trying to clarify, to clarify the questions our esteemed lawmakers have asked. Two petty officers, one of whom we have identified and knew were kidnapped by the separatist terrorist organization expressed by Mr. Akar. Studies on the fate of one of our officers are ongoing. We have other citizens who have been kidnapped by the separatist terrorist organization. There's information about a separatist terrorist organization that kidnaps our teachers from time to time, kidnaps construction workers, subjecting our staff to psychological torture. However, our security forces continue their work, including intelligence, for the discovery of this staff and everyone who has been kidnapped, and for the involvement of the terrorist organization that has kidnapped them. Our security forces include, of course, elements of our armed forces that operate domestic security services. While Mr. Akar asked if there was an interview with the terrorist organization for the children of this country, I think he made an overstatement assessment. We have not, we do not, we do not, and we do not interview the separatist terrorist organization or any of their extensions for our people or our citizens who have been kidnapped by a terrorist organization. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0411par0577	You left him to die?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0410par0578	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0411par0579	Why? You made the call on election time.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0410par0580	Mr. Akar, if we're going to fight, I'll do very well, but we're in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I'll give you his answer.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0411par0581	You left him to die? Answer him. Admit it, say it from there, we left him to die. Say it.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0410par0582	I'm giving him his answer. Please, I'd like to invite you to the House.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0411par0583	You're not answering.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0410par0584	Mr. President will probably show the same attitude.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0411par0585	Didn't you interview for an election in Oslo? You did it.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0412par0586	Please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0410par0587	Mr. Yilmaz has assessed the award of successful personnel at the Police General Directorate that the senior staff has been awarded a higher priority. There is no such distinction. Whoever wins gets his reward for whatever rank he's in. This award is sometimes a material reward, and sometimes a commendation is a spiritual reward, as well as a thank-you note. The hours and hours of the security service are unique. The hours are 12:00-24. 00, 24:00-48. 00 is done according to the circumstances, according to the need. They don't work like the Census Authority, they don't work like the deed office. Once again, I know it's known, but just so I'm clear, the security department will take care of the service in 24 hours, 25 hours. As much as possible is not being victimized in the appointment of a spouse. There are temporary difficulties with our staff, whose wives work in different institutions. Not one of our ministries has the slightest delay in correcting the appointment of the spouse, which must be corrected by a judicial decision. Mr. Türkoglu... the question of Adana Metropolitan Municipality has come to us once again. There are three prosecution cases filed against Adana Metropolitan Municipality. Other than that, there are a lot of preliminary investigations and investigations conducted by our ministry. We never desire or desire for anyone to be suspended.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0413par0591	Do you have any other example of a major city, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0410par0592	However, all of these cases are not about their own personal issue, but about the mayor's office and allegations of events that have taken place in the municipality where he is mayor. In connection with his suspension, all the cases he filed against the administration court and appealed to the State's Office -- we're not happy, but it's been rejected.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0413par0594	That's a different story. You extend it every two months. Why do you extend it every two months?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0410par0595	So the court has approved the suspension with all its decisions until now.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0413par0596	Then don't extend it every two months, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0410par0597	Let me share it one more time. It's not a sharing we're very happy with.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0413par0598	If it was from the AKP, would you have removed it?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0410par0599	Mr. Belen, they've expressed the government's mansions in Çerkezköy. The government...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0414par0600	Mr. Hawk, your time is up, five minutes, but...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0410par0601	I'll complete it, and I'll ask the Minister's permission.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0414par0602	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0410par0603	Mr. Belen's request for government housing: We have to consider this as well as all demands, but we'd like to technically examine the price of the matter and work out a solution within the scope of the program. We've put it in our evaluation section. Mr. Çınar, 13 other major cities will be organized in our country following the municipal Law in 2014 and will continue to run security services by whom, at this moment, is run by our organization -- which is being run by our police -- who is currently being run by our organization -- who is being run by the police.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0414par0605	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0410par0606	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0414par0607	If there are any questions, you'll probably answer the rest in writing. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. Thank you, Mr. President. I answer the question of Mr. Oz. The way to Mersin-Eye will be 21km; 17km will be finished, and 4km will be finished in 2013. There was an airport tender for Çukurova, the firm started with its resources, and it will soon complete its credit talks and things will speed up. It's a do-and-do project. It is planned to be a modern airport that will serve cities and districts in the region. Mr. Erdogan, the road to Müğla-Köyımiz-Dalaman is 53km; 45km is divided; work continues at 5km and ends at 2013. Mr. Erdogan has mentioned a problem with the Yaten intersection, and we'll see about that. It's not natural that the roads aren't over... that the roads aren't over. As soon as life is over, one of them ends, one of them begins, and the rest will continue to be cared for. So the important thing is to keep traffic going, and we're doing the work that we need to do. Giresun MP Karaahmetoglu, Curibel Tunnel, that region, Shebinkarahisar, Alucra, Suşehri and that battery are a very important road that connects the north to the south; a place I know, I'm from that region. Here, project work continues, the land is a land that is both abic and landslide. We've wasted a lot of time searching for directions. When the project is completed, it will also be needed for construction. The issue of the K document is basically renewed within the issues set in the law, but is cancelled when it is not met. If there's a special occasion, we can always examine it and assess it if there's a wrong procedure. Kadirli-Osmania totals 41 kilometers. Unfortunately, we've had some serious problems here from the contractor, but we've gone over that, and it'll be over 34 kilometers, and 7 kilometers will be over in 2013. The road of the Mighty-Andirin-Azur is 103 kilometers, its 42km is finished, and the work will continue on the 61km, and the road will be completely finished in 2015. Mr. Aksinger, your question is a little long, but let me simply say, for once, the investigation into this agreement between TTNET and Phorm, which you asked earlier, is complete, as of tomorrow, the BTK will make its decision. Secondly...
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0415par0619	Will he cancel, Mr. Secretary? Is it going to be canceled? Sir, I don't know what the board will decide. The board does what you say, because he's done it by now. The board will discuss the report tomorrow and make a decision. I can't tell if he'll cancel or not here instead of the board.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0416par0624	Yes, Mr. Lightning, your time is up, but if I give you two more minutes, will the answers be complete?
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0417par0625	The road is important to us, and the way of Tucson is very bad.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0418par0626	The road's important, corruption's terrible.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0416par0627	Here you go. You asked what the State Airports and EUROCONTROL would do to debtors. For one thing, these loans are covered by collateral, and the staff's fees are paid first. So far, we don't have that on our record except for the Turkuaz airline that shut down the business in 2010. One more thing, it's Internet freedom. You know, there's already a very violent debate in the world about Internet freedom. The ICANN, created by the United States of America and the International Telecommunications Association, have been in Dubai for the past two weeks, and it looks like it's going to be a lot more talked about. Today, the Internet is not the property of anyone; the Internet has become the property of mankind, and the Internet is a very large service environment. It's against reason and knowledge to bring restrictions here, to block their freedoms. So the creation of global convention and ethical values here would be the right solution. Otherwise, there is a risk that each person declares his own Internet, his own ownership. Mr. Enver Erdem, Elaziğ MP, the bridge of the network is a little late due to a change of project, and the bridge of the network will be fully open to traffic by the end of 2013; I want to express that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0419par0634	Mr. President, we didn't really ask any questions, but the only way that Tunceli is good is through the cracks, and everything else is broken. The roads of all districts of Tunceli have been corrupted, except Chemmisgaek. Madam Secretary, you know, we spoke on the phone, and the road to Nazimia is terrible. So I beg you, don't force us to ask you, I'd appreciate it if you'd do that.
tbmm-2012-12-13sit04spe0416par0635	Thank you, Mr. Young. Now, in turn, I'm going to let you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the sixth round: I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications will take part in the central management budget in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 34) LOOKING FOR DISAPPEARANCE, AUDIENCE AND NEWS 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 6,004.894.400 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 703,300 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 4,684.850.200 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 151.100 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 10.690.599.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. The Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration of 2011 be transferred to the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 16,067,251,779.00 - Budget Expenses: 15,869,003,703,55 - Payments Expenses 968,085,95 - Canceled grant: 199,216,161,40 - Payment transferred to the following year: 142.801.485.00 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications was adopted in 2011 as part of the final account of central management. I would like to submit to your votes that the Departments of the Central Management budget of 2013 shall be transferred to the General Directorate of Highways: those in favor... those who do not accept... are accepted. 40.52) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORS 1) General Directorate of Highways 2013 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 93,439,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 12.075,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 6,855,409,900 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 1,449,600 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 6,962.374,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 887.584,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 6,013,374,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 60,855,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Savings 561.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 6,962.374,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The General Directorate of Highways was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Administration account of 2011 will be transferred to its chapters: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) General Directorate of Highways 2011 Central Management Terms (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 15,021,145,078,08 - Budget Expenses 14.951.818.982,31 - Emancipation Expenses: 8.660.328.29 - Canceled allowance: 70,678,769,42 - Payment transferred to the following year: 9.627.245,16 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): C E T V E L [[TL]] - Budget revenue forecast: 5,511.382,000.00 - Net Collection: 12.293,866,888,83 - Denied and returned : 1.349.951.59 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The National Board of Highways was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Information Technologies and Communications Agency will be transferred to the central management budget in 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.02) THE INVESTIGATION AND INTERVIEW 1) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 116,857,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 92,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 1,301,143,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 1,510,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,348,400,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 161,600,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 1,510,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Information Technologies and Communications Agency adopted parts of the central management budget in 2013. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of 2011 shall be transferred to the chapters of the Information Technologies and Communications Agency: those who have not accepted... are accepted. 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Final Account for 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (A) C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 1,375,280.000.00 - Budget Expenses: 1,364,155,899,81 - Aborted grant 11.124.100,19 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): (B) C E T V E L [[TL]] - Budget revenue estimate: 1,283,280.000.00 - Net Collection: 1,407,967,668,90 - Ret and returns 43,811,769.09 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Information Technologies and Communication Agency were adopted into the section of the central management account in 2011. Undersecretary of Maritime Affairs in 2011, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management should be transferred to the chapters: those who don't accept... those who don't. 3) Undersecretary of Maritime (Secretary Office) Central Management Final Account for 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (A) C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 109,710,000.00 - Budget Expenses 88.420.110.36 - Canceled allowance: 21,289,889,64 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the Civil Aeronautics General Directorate will be transferred to the central management budget in 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.49) THE GOVERNMENT OF CIVIL AIRPORT 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 2.954,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 445,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 18.221.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 21.620.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 47,483,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 15,517,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 63,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Civil Aviation General Directorate was adopted in 2013 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the Civil Aeronautics General Directorate of 2011 will be transferred to the chapters of its central management account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (A) C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 13.858,000.00 - Budget Expenses: 12.501.962.86 - Canceled allowance : 1,356,037,14 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): (B) C E T V E L [[TL]] - Budget revenue forecast: 63,000,000.00 - Net Collection: 43,842.445,76 - Ret and returns 306,214,24 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Civil Aviation General Directorate was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Internal Affairs will take part in the central management budget in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 2.486.883,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 110,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,942,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 399,828,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained TOPLAM 2,888,763,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Interior adopted parts of the central management budget in 2013. I'd like to submit to your votes that the internal ministry's central management account of 2011 will be transferred to its final accounts: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Final Account for 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 2.603,281,099.00 - Budget Expenses: 2.550.430.372.74 - Payments Expenses: 6.554,44 - Canceled allowance: 52,857,280,70 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Interior was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Management budget of 2013 will be moved to its branches: Those who don't... Sustained. 10.82) EMERGENCY GOVERNMENT 1) Police General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 346.392.600 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 13.841.947.900 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 4.371.200 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 584.409.300 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained TOPLAM 14.777.11,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Security General Directorate section of the central management budget of 2013 has been adopted I'd like to submit to your votes that the central management account of 2011 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Police General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 10.237.093.186.88 - Budget Expenses 11.394.515.154.64 - Compensation Expenses: 1,304,865,363,27 - Canceled allowance: 146,210,449,28 - Payment transferred to the following year: 138,336,650,51 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Security General Directorate of 2011 was adopted into parts of its final account of central management. Gen. General Command, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2013 be transferred to its sections: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 10:81) JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 80,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5,837,873,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 5,500,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 5,843,453,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Gendarme General Command was adopted in 2013 as part of the central management budget. Gen. General Command, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration of 2011 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Gendarme General Command Final Account for Central Management in 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 4.818.007.610.48 - Budget Expenses: 4.551,153,814,19 - Canceled allowance: 265,873,488,99 - Payment transferred to the following year: 263,775,994.33 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. Gendarme General Command was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. Coast Guard Command, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2013 be transferred to its sectors: Those who don't... Sustained. 10:83 A.M.S.I.C.O.D. 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget 2013 [[TL]] 03 Public Order and Security Services 432.035,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 432.035,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Coast Guard Command was adopted in 2013 as part of the central management budget. Coast Guard Command, I'd like to submit to your votes to the chapters of the central management account in 2011: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Coast Guard Command Final Account for Central Management 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 327,826,828,78 - Budget Expenses: 273,071,500,86 - Canceled allowance: 54.036.148.97 - Payment transferred to the following year: 47,213,060,58 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Coast Guard Command was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. In this way, the central management budgets of Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry, General Directorate of Roads, Information Technologies and Communication Agency, Civil Aviation General Directorate, Interior Ministry, Security General Directorate, Police General Command and Coast Guard Command in 2013 and the final account of central management budgets and the Maritime Undersecretary of Maritime 2011. I wish him well. Congressmans, the sixth round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Friday, December 14, 2012, to discuss the budgets and precise accounts of the institutions, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
