tbmm-2012-10-01sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 24th Year of the Third Legislature of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Dear lawmakers, I wish the new year of legislature to be good luck and good luck for our country, our nation, and all of us. I wish we had a healthy and successful working year. At the beginning of my words, I thank and thank all our states and political men, martyrs and veterans, who led our House, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the first President of our Parliament, the founder of our republic. I salute you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly has thus far passed 419 draft laws, 845 law proposals, 270 legislation decrees, from which 119 commissions and talks have been made in the General Assembly. In addition, our House has decided on 31 of them. Again, the 822 immunity files came to our House during this period. In these drafts and proposals adopted and legalised, regulations have been made concerning Turkey's Human Rights Institution, Public Control Agency, Law Incompatibility Association, Mediation, Occupational Health and Safety, Disaster Insurance Act, Protection of the Family and Protection of Violence Against Women, and very broad sections of the Presidential Election Act, judicial and educational services. At the same time, 2,304 verbal question motions were submitted, 451 answered. The 10,811 written question motion has been answered by 7.412. Of the 11 general consultation proposals submitted, 5 have been processed. The four motions adopted are on the agenda of the General Assembly concerning terrorism and the proposed missile defence system. Four of the 12 motions have been withdrawn, and eight have been discussed. With the request to conduct a parliamentary investigation, 983 motions have been made, a commission has been set up for 28/8 of the 351 motions adopted. These include major research issues such as developments in the IT sector and the study of social impacts of internet use, the study of issues related to highly gifted children, the initiatives and processes that interfere with democracy and make democracy dysfunctional, and the investigation of increased violence against health workers. All these studies include 143 combined, 598 sessions, 856 hours of study, 43,605 pages of writing. In the new year of legislation, our Parliament will continue its work on the issues of the country's agenda with intensity and great zeal. Honourable MPs, we are lucky men who have had the privilege of serving our nation under this sacred roof, the greatest work of the Republic founded by St. Ataturk. It's a proud share for all of us. It's a great responsibility to all of us. Therefore, it is our primary duty to maintain the dignity of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The future of our democracy, the trust in democracy, depends on it. We have to conclude our country's problems by giving good examples of civilized debate, in a clean manner that is not harsh and hurtful, in terms of democratic understanding and rules that need to be resolved. We're in front of society. We must remember that we have common values and goals that are represented in the person of this great institution, above all of us, above all of us, and above all of us, a separate place, a separate identity, and a different personality. We have to be extremely sensitive about this. Dear lawmakers, in countries that have absorbed democracy, parliaments are not only the institutions that wish, but rather, the institutions that are tasked and responsible for providing what is desired. So do we. It has to be. It's because this Parliament is the only veteran in the world. We should continue to believe that our Parliament is an institution that paves the way for our country, a solution to problems, and contribute to being the hope of our nation by acting with a high sense of responsibility. That's essentially why we exist, and that's why parliaments have historical assets. I have to say, we have a lot of problems inside and out that we need to solve. Together, we have to resolve these things by discussing them, by speaking, and by compromise. We've seen enough experience of how difficult the opposite has been. We've made a start on two things this semester. Both of our four political parties and all of us have an important and historic responsibility to conclude. The first is the new constitution. The new constitution was a social demand last semester, and where we are now, it's a necessity for us. For the political reputation, we have to do this to prove that Turkey is the address of the Grand National Assembly. A parliament investigating coups cannot move forward with the constitution of coup and coup law. This is a serious lack of politics, and it's a difficult contradiction to explain. We need to get rid of this as soon as possible. We can't delay things, we can't move them. If we delay and push back, we'll have to deal with more constitutional issues every day. Otherwise, if we can't make a new constitution, it's our historical responsibility, we'll be responsible for it. The second is the establishment of the political ethics commission. As hope and faith, I would say that in this year of life, at least we should come to an agreement on these issues. Let's not forget, by the expression of the people, good deeds become evil when they grow. And I've said that last year, another thing we need to focus on is this: I'm going to say that we have to work together at this time, and that's the re-controversial of political law. The 1982 Constitution and its political laws no longer meet the needs of the day. The way everyone else is pointing out, this law is too narrow for us, making new problems every day. In the first place, we have a problem with legitimacy. With the strict, prohibitive rules of political law, the facts of politics and the expectations of the public are facing today. Legal, legal legitimacy and political legitimacy don't match. The framework drawn by political law forces real politics, takes hostages. In the end, political legitimacy conflictes with legal legitimacy. These concepts that need to match the other one also corrode the concept of legitimacy as a result of the conflict. This is the basis of some of the problems we face today. Yesterday's rules and institutions are not enough to solve our country's problems, to meet our expectations. We have to update the subject, upload new content to the concepts. If we can't do this quickly, expectations can't go beyond wish. By setting rules, by renovating rules, concepts and institutions, we refer to the problems we can overcome to personal efforts, to abilities. The Code of Political Parties, election legislation, Internal Code, immunity, long imprisonment, parliamentary status, Article 83, Article 14, and many other issues are required to be re-examined. Everything the law-judgment relations bring back to us is a political problem that the judiciary can't solve, that the judiciary can't pay enough attention to the bliss of the legislature. If it seems acceptable to you, together, we should start work on solutions without spending time on these and other issues and end them in a positive way. We've got a lot of work ahead of us, a lot of problems that hurt us. Terror is one of them. We know it's a crime of humanity. We see it as the greatest threat to society's future, to peace, peace and stability. It is the most important obstacle to development and civil peace. It's a problem above parties, a problem for all of us, where everyone is standing and where they need to be clearly defined. We'll solve this problem, we'll solve it. The contributions that someone else can contribute are either non-existent or spectacularly limited. Therefore, we must conclude this together, including terminology, method and content. In this regard, we need to be more sensitive to peace and peace of mind, to protect our unity, to maintain our receptacle, to be in solidarity with the nation. In dealing with the internal and external issues that we are obliged to address in this regard and other matters, we, as representatives and pioneers of the nation, are obliged to set new goals for democracy, to work together, to compromise, to set good examples for solidarity. This is our duty. Let's hope we do this, we'll be worthy of our nation. With these wishes, I wish the new year of life to be a blessing and auspicious. [[Applause]] Congressmans, Mr. President, the General Assembly Hall is now in session to make the opening statement for the new year of legislation. Welcome to them, on behalf of our coven. I'm saying. [[AC PARTY standing ovations from CHP, MPP and BDP ranks]] [[Identical March]] Thank you. Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-01sit01spe0002par0034	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, on the occasion of the opening of the 24th Year of the Third Legislature of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you with my sincerest feelings. Every new day, every new beginning brings new hopes. In today's environment, where the world has had radical changes, enormous subverts in economic, social, and political areas, our great Assembly is the most important institution in which our nation trusts and trusts the solution to its problems. As it has been since its establishment, today our great nation has turned its face to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for guidance, hoping for your presence, your efforts, your efforts. Dear lawmakers, the positive and negative developments in the world, around us, and in our country have undoubtedly made this era of legislation more sensitive than before. At times like this, we need to be able to take more in common. For that, we need broader consultations, multi-directional dialogue, and closer work at every level. Political parties are the basis of democracy. The mutual contribution of our political parties to the establishment of the environment that our respected leaders and politicians require is more decisive than any other contribution. Let's empathize with each other's thoughts and concerns. Let's keep telling the truth, but while we're doing this, let's avoid using an exclusive style that will result in a distance from each other. Let's keep in mind what the power of the word is. As we know from past experiences and examples of our political history, how a year of legislation begins goes on. Let us be strong in our words. We can be slaves to our own words and reach some very difficult things to make up for in the future. In my speech last year, I stressed that this Assembly represents all the colors and trends of politics and is therefore very powerful. On this occasion, I would like to point out that the lawmakers, who were elected and could not be in parliament during this year, have created a flaw in this painting. (HPP applauses in turn) I think anyone who's been in the elections legally, who's taken the vote, who's earned the right to act as an MP should participate in the legislative activities until certain judicial decisions are made about them. The High Assembly is the solution to all the problems our country and our nation face. The representation of all the ideas and colors in our country is important here. The important thing is that this great institution is inclusive and that those who differ from the majority find a safe place to live under this roof. Any shortcomings that may occur in the Parliamentary composition will do nothing but repeat what has been done in the past and further procrastinate the solutions that we need so much. Mr. President, the year of the legislature we left behind has been the scene of events that have put our country first in every way. The world's most solid, unwavering economies have gone into crisis, and problems have deepened in countries that have met the crisis before. In the nearby geography, we have found that political structures that are believed to be the fate of the peoples, considered never to be changed, are about to be resolved. People began to express more rights and more freedom demands out loud, showing that they could afford any sacrifice to gain their rights and freedom. Since the process of change is not yet over, the turmoil around us also affects our country. We are well aware that our country is one of its inspirations in the developments that have led to radical changes in our recent geography. As a Muslim, democratic, and secular country, Turkey has made economic progress, as well as its efforts to make its citizens of different religions and ethnicities happy. Being like Turkey has become a longing for some people in today's world. There is no doubt that these qualities bear a separate responsibility to our country and especially to those who serve under the government. With that dignity, we must continue our decisive march to strengthen, institutionalize, and sustain democratic gains that will be recognized in view of our country and its system. Dear lawmakers, changes in remote and close geography have opened the door to new problems as well as great opportunities for our country. In our region, we have continued our long-term strategy, which is to address problems with joint solutions on the basis of mutual solidarity and multi-pronged co-operation, which is important for stability and security. Despite the many obstacles that have come our way over time, we have proved our sincerity to the countries and neighbors of the region by not compromising our policies. Our relations with our neighbors are being tested with new developments these days. In the end, two years ago, completely outside of us, the peoples of the authoritarian Arab countries, ruled by one party regimes, acted for freedom, justice, and better economic conditions, and broke the walls of fear. This radical transformation in the Arab world is an entirely domestic right, law and honor struggle. The Cold War period is long over, but even today in the Middle East, strategic and tactical moves are being carried out by cold war mentality and methods. Hence, it helps to be more careful and cautious than ever. When the public movement began in the Middle East, some countries who normally taught democracy to the world had hesitated. Today, there are globally sneaky attempts to shading and deflect transformation. The last example of these initiatives is the provocation of film that has occurred in recent days and has already felt its effect. Such provocations will take place from now on. The Islamic world must continue its efforts towards democracy and development without falling into this trap. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are fighting a bloody civil war in Syria that kills hundreds of people every day. The most glorious cities of our ancient civilization continue to be devastated, the people we embrace, to viciously attack each other. Does a country consume itself? So today Syria is wearing itself out. We do not want Syria to consume itself. Our preferred choice is a powerful Syrian, whose people are happy. Our country's policy is clear on its neighbours, including Syria. We're in favor of a good relationship with all our neighbors. Despite all obstacles, we tried to improve our relations with Syria. The development of relationships brought the peoples of the two countries closer together, contributing to their prosperity. In the process, we believed that the policy of engagement would encourage our neighbor's appetite for democracy and would help him take steps on this road. After the events began, we worked friendlyly hard to keep the initiative from falling out of the hands of the Syrian administration, and at every level we worked hard, and we didn't treat the region as distant countries. Because we've seen that it's inevitable that you'll come to these days. However, in the eyes of the world, we face a regime today that deals with the legitimate demands of its own people with heavy weapons, including fighter planes. We have shown a primitive attitude, regardless of race, religion, sect, ideology, differences. Our position is true before history. I'd like to call the entire international community from here. The stopping of blood in Syria is a common responsibility for all of us. Recent history shows how such events turn into greater massacres when the international community does not do its part. With that dignity, it should not be viewed as a concept of cold war and infertile interests, but as a bold and decisive attitude to take into account our human responsibilities, to uphold justice and justice. Still, it's good to be careful. In matters involving foreign policy, friends and enemies often mix, feelings of vengeance come into play, jealousy rages. Therefore, we must carefully follow the side effects of the policy we follow and try to understand the threat perception of every country in the region. National interests are the basis for every country. Our country's national interests are also essential to us. When things calm down in Syria, it is our greatest desire that the order that will rule the country will represent all the people of Syria, avoid extremes, and not act on vengeful emotions. New Syria is our primary priority in maintaining territorial integrity and political unity in peace with its own people and neighbors. On the other hand, the uninterrupted continuation of loyalty and support for the Palestinian cause will be one of the most important sources of the legitimacy of the new Syria. Of course, all these developments have raised new and serious security problems for us on our long southern border. The terrorist organization's efforts to benefit from this situation, which has an opportunity for a large number of migrations and the emergence of chaos, are enhancing terrorist attacks. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers continue to take lives in our country, breaking our hearts. In our country and in different countries of the world, terrorism is not a political or despicable crime, it is an act of intent on human life and it is a crime against humanity. In my speech at the High Assembly last year, I stressed that the terrorist organization was in historical error, seeing our country's determination to raise democratic standards as a weakness. This time, the terrorist organisation, especially Syria, has re-invented into a historical illusion of transformation and chaos in the region, becoming a subsidiary of different focal points that want to prevent Turkey's peace and development. The fight against terrorism, the rule of law and the basic principles of democracy will be maintained with the same determination and determination. There will never be any leniency to the terror centers that mean to our nation and the slightest weakness in the fight against terrorism. Turkish Armed Forces and security forces continue their fight against terrorism with great sacrifice and restructuring themselves under new circumstances. As state and nation, we have complete confidence in our armed forces and our security forces. On this occasion, I remember once again all our martyrs, soldiers, police and civilians, and all our heroic veterans, especially the fight against terrorism, who died heroically for the peace and security of our country. We are all one heart in the fight against terrorism, with power, opposition, media and NGOs. For the success of this struggle, determination and unity are vital to its success. In this context, all of us must be loyal to the oath that we have done under this House to preserve the existence and independence of the state, the indivisible integrity of the country and the nation, the unconditional and unconditional sovereignty of the nation. Terror and democracy don't go arm in arm in no fool's way. A democracy that tolerates the embrace, praise, and legitimacy of terrorism does not exist in the world. Terror cannot be excused in any way because it aims to destroy human dignity, one of the most important constitutional values, and the right to live above basic rights. No doubt our greatest weapon in the nation's total fight against terrorism is to lose our moral superiority and our legal legitimacy inside and out. The greatest guarantee of this legitimacy is our democracy. What terrorism means is that democracy is the main goal. Turkey has been trying to expand the channels of its democracy in harmony with the conditions of the day for some time. Brave steps have been taken in many previously feared areas. Changes that will make everyone happy within the principle of equal citizenship and allow everyone to benefit from all the resources of the state are being made one after the other, and all the changes that have been made are being taken advantage of in almost every area. Many curfews have been terminated, and applications that are meant to interfere with identities are no longer available. The pressures on the native languages have been lifted, and the ability to learn the native language to the seeker has been introduced into the educational system since this year. The bureaucrats all over the country are aware that their duties are public service. The terrorist organization is deeply disturbed by these developments. The public's natural stand for stability, which extends the area of freedom, is compressing the terrorist organization. With that dignity, we should not be discouraged to raise our democratic standards. We must not fall into the wrong direction and fall back into a vicious circle today, trapped by increased terrorist attacks for conjunctural reasons. In this context, we need to keep in mind that this Parliament is the solution to all problems, and we need to continue our efforts to draft a new constitution. Due to recent terrorist attacks and loss of life, we should not be in the least bit depressed. Yes, it has increased the violence of terrorism, but let's not forget that our country has also experienced the most powerful period in the history of the republic in terms of democratic standards, economic development, political stability and military and soft power. Thus, even though the problems ahead are great, we also have the strength, experience, and savings to deal with them easily. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, foreign policy is based on our growing softness of our achievements over the past ten years. Because of our historical savings, our long state experience, our nation's self-responsibility and democratic identity, we are always, as a righteous force, against the righteous, and we will always be. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In addition, we need to keep in mind that our national interests are the main issue that must be observed every step of the way. We must carefully maintain our progress in relations with the neighbors, one of the most valuable achievements of our foreign policy. We should view the setbacks as temporary and periodic because of developments in relations with some of our neighbors, maintaining the goal of improving relations with neighbors on the basis of friendship and mutual interests. The two basic security dilemmas of the region are priority for the bonding of security, stability and prosperity of the historical transformation in the Middle East, where some of our neighbors live. These two fundamental issues, which are actually related to each other, are the danger of the Arab-Israeli conflict and the spread of weapons of mass destruction in the area of climbing. Instead of individual and fundamental approaches for the solution to both problems, a more complete and comprehensive approach is essential. In this framework, I believe the Arab Peace Plan, which ended Israel's security concerns, and a regional disarmament mechanism based on the United Nations Security Council Resolution 687, which would allow the region to be purged of weapons of mass destruction, should be the main reference. The NPT Watch Conference, held in New York in 2010 by President Obama of the United States, appreciates their statement supporting this idea, and I invite other great actors to take initiative in the matter of disarming. Thus, a fair and lasting resolution of the Palestinian issue, which undermines the sense of justice in the Middle East and in many parts of the world and causes instability and extremities, may be possible to address tensions related to the perceptions of Iran and other countries in the region. Our relations with the European Union and NATO allies, particularly the United States, on the basis of common values, should not be referred to as just a foreign policy and security preference. In a sense, these relations, which are also admissible with the political, democratic and economic qualities of our country, are also very important for our democratic and economic initiative as well as for strengthening our security. On the other hand, I believe it is necessary for our country to maintain diplomatic and economic activism on all continents in recent years, to preserve Turkey's rising profile in world policy and expand our national interests. We must continue to strengthen our multidimensional foreign policy towards China, Africa, Latin America and Pacific countries, where our relations are rapidly diversified, especially our neighbor and great trade partner, Russia. In addition, we need to continue by increasing our attention and interest in the Cyprus case, with the importance of relations with the Central Asian Turkish republics and the Islamic world. Dear lawmakers, the Western economies today are struggling with a major crisis, and the European Union may be trying to overcome some weaknesses that have come with its internal closure and internal construction. However, no crisis lasts forever, many crises have ended since the Depression of 1929, and often the countries have grown stronger by the rule of creative destruction. With the acceleration of the European Union's accession perspective, Turkey has also led many reforms that strengthen its economy and democracy and raise the standards of our citizens' lives. Although the process often slows down because of the opposite causes, we must mind our own business and take the right steps that must be taken within the framework of the European Union's acquisp. Therefore, my expectation from the High Assembly is that the priority for European Union integration laws and reforms be restored and that they be transformed into concrete gains on behalf of all our citizens. Dear lawmakers, last year our country's most important agenda was the construction of the new constitution. For this constitution, which is our nation's longing and expectation, it is the new year of life that begins today. Preliminary preparation for the constitution to include the proposals of large masses, including the demands of civil society, was completed last year. I am also closely monitoring the commission work of equal number of members of our parties represented in parliament. Now it's time for these studies to be transformed into a common text. The text should contain common opinions that can be agreed on as much as possible. I'm aware of the power of a 100 percent agreement on a basic text, such as the Constitution. With a liberal constitution, we must carry out a new civil rights contract that guarantees everyone's rights and freedom, where no one will feel left out. The introduction of many issues and alternative constitutional systems during the new constitution process is a healthy debate to explore the positive and negative aspects of these systems. As there are examples of these systems successfully applied in the world, there are also examples of serious problems. The important thing is, considering the present examples of the world, to discuss the issue with all its vehementness within its integrity, and as a result, a constitution that will take our nation to its rightful place in light of our radical constitutional experience, to expand fundamental rights and freedoms, to strengthen our people's unity and unity, to institutionalize our democracy as soon as possible. Mr. President, there is a freedom in our country today that everyone can express their views freely. Lacks or wrong practices along the way, images that damage democracy, all of which must be eliminated without delay. No one should have any doubts about the fact that Turkey is a democratic state of law. We must not allow our gains on this road to be unfairly clouded in public and in public. Because it allows for the widest use of democratic rights and freedoms in the world, the damaged country is rare. In response, many of those who suffer from hardship are the countries whose rights and freedoms are narrow, who have not suffered from democracy. Turkey, thankfully, is a country today with a certain democratic maturity. In a country, it gives a country a reputation for writers, thinkers, and intellectuals to share their views without fear. (Applause from CHP rows) In the same way, it is essential that journalists, journalists, and members of the media as a whole do not encounter any obstacles in doing their duty to inform the public. No one should go to prison for his opinion and opinion through the media. A decisive distinction must be made between those who promote violence and those who express opinion. Honorable lawmakers, basic democratic principles, such as the state of law, transparency and accountability, make every country strong. As we go through critical times, our care and precision in these matters strengthens our fighting force and repels any abuse and unclean propaganda. Therefore, in order to honor and undermine the reputation of our institutions, we must act with courage to eliminate all doubts and doubts. We must maintain the balance of interrogation and accountability without ever putting us all in an internal polemic circle of sad events and misfortunes. This behavior will never be weak, but it will strengthen the power of our country and our institutions. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are full of crises that destroy all the basic balances of the Turkish economy's recent historical economy and cause major losses and losses at every turn. The reality of these difficult times was that our economy was suffering from crises and weaknesses that could always be exposed to crises. In 2001, our country suffered the deepest economic crisis in its history. With effective measures and extensive reforms in the years following the crisis, our economy has caught a steady trend of growth and development, except for an exceptional year or two. It also showed strong resilience and flexibility to the world's most violent crisis in the last century, which began in 2007 and continued to deepen in 2008. The reforms have protected us from external shocks this time. Despite all these negativitys, the Turkish economy has grown nearly five times faster than the EU average in the last decade, and this growth has been an employment growth. In the first place, the share belongs to our hardworking nation and to the government and to the economy administration, with its insight and its right policies. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Unfortunately, however, we cannot say that this economic performance, which the entire world has watched with appreciation and care, is well - cared for and appreciated in our own country. We need to see the suffering and suffering of the citizens of the most powerful countries in Europe today. Precious lawmakers, being successful in economics in today's world means providing a sustainable growth trend and a stable economic climate. We should also remember that the results we desire are not achieved by instruction, but by following the right policies. Both concepts, sustainability and stability, at the same time, represent events that are closely connected and affecting each other. What I'd like to emphasize is that the strategic vision to implement mid and long-term structural reforms, which will not be satisfied with the temporary achievements of current policies, is that the economy will be established on structurally stronger foundations. Because in the past, he's fallen into these traps, and we all know the consequences. Over the past period, the solution to our chronic problems has been achieved because necessary steps have been taken decisively in both areas. Due to the reduction of inflation in the process, large landings were recorded in nominal and real interest. In short, our national budget has been freed from the charge of interest, funding for growth and development. We should also demonstrate the same success in breaking the cycle of growth. Our goal should be high growth without endangering price stability and financial stability. Because we need high-profile growth in order to cover the difference between us and developed economies and not be a middle-income country. The current global economic climate also gives us the historic opportunity to capture them. I'd also like to say that I'm happy to see that middle and long-term policies are being formed in this direction. On the other hand, I brought to your attention last year some issues to break the chronic link between growth and current and long-term, and to address the structural failure of industry in terms of external dependence on raw materials and intermediary property. I would also like to stress that I consider the beginning of effective and comprehensive policies as promising steps. While I appreciate the economic achievements here, I find it necessary to make some reminders and warnings. In an external economy, it is imperative that we monitor not only domestic but also external developments. Excessive self-esteem and comfort are emotions that economic governance should always avoid. It should not be forgotten that financial and monetary discipline is one of the main reasons for economic achievements so far. It should be remembered that relaxing in this area will result in irreparable consequences. We also need to pay attention to our priorities in public spending during this fragile period. Surely the most important factor of all achievements is our trained source of manpower. With that respect, the key word for the coming term should be .. efficiency. For this, scientific studies, research-enhancing and innovation activities, especially education, are the key element in achieving the goals of economic programmes. This area must always be our top priority. Mr. President, we entered the 21st century as a country that faced problems and was unpredictable. There were many of us who spoke of us as the sick man of Europe again. Today, however, we are a powerful country that can contribute to the new order of the changing world, where its citizens trust in it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're getting rich and we're looking for ways to spread our wealth. We're trying to solve our problems through democracy, speech and debate. Today, Turkey is a country that the foreign ministers envy and should be proud of from the inside. In these developments, with his power and opposition, all of our political parties and, of course, our great Parliament, as a whole, have a great share. There is no doubt that we have significant internal and external problems ahead of us. We can never ignore them. However, we have much more power, willpower, and experience to overcome them than ever before. So I repeat my belief that the Turkish nation and the future Turkey will be brighter and brighter in every respect. As I put an end to my words, I remember with mercy all members of the great assembly, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who have been sent to eternity, and I wish the new year of life to be a blessing to our nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-01sit01spe0003par0123	[[Standing ovations from AK PARTY and BDP rows, standing up from MHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, there is nothing else on our agenda today. Therefore, on Tuesday, October 2, 2012, it is 3:00 p.m. to discuss the agenda, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
